ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u101861	I thank the President, here are my colleagues asking me about Marrakesh, given how many times I've been mentioned here, it's not clear to me how you've banned the President from talking about it every day when we hear about Marrakesh here, I think those who didn't know anything have enough information, but we know why. I would like to point out here at this time one, hopefully, an unintentional failure, and it is related to the amendments to the rules on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Regulation. In fact, when we talk about an untaxable part that has increased by 5,000 kuna since 1.12. Namely, we know that the worker for the work results can receive 5,000 kunas from all payers working with former employers, regardless of whether it is in the form of an additional salary, salary allowance, regression, goddesses, etc., but what has been omitted or in the interpretation of this Regulation are actually independent insurance or craftsmen or even more important MAHs, they can pay off this non-taxable supplement to their worker but cannot themselves. We know that OPG carriers and craftsmen are up to 3 million bonds to... income taxpayers of 12% plus taxes and those whose second income is 24%, with them still having to pay and contribute to the income achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe here that it is not equally legal, i.e. that the unequal position of the craftsman and the holder of the OPG in relation to the other workers and that they should be equated with all other workers who are entitled to a 7.5 thousand non-taxable allowance in the year whether that is 416 kuna monthly salary allowance is a score 66 or already through certain of these fixed forms of untaxable compensation. I think that would even the ones that we want to encourage, where we're always full of the mouths of craftsmen, of OPGs, if we're talking small, really in that OPG sense that we're supposed to mean. We unfortunately have this disproportionate, where we have OPGs with literally agricultural family economies like those where two, three, four family members work but we also have OPGs where there are 50 employees. But here we must not leave out small people who work on their few acres, who produce and who I think should be the bearer of agricultural production in Croatia especially if we look at those of added value. That is why I would like to appeal this way to reflect on the amendments to that regulation, if not already in this year but certainly for the following year, so that all craftsmen are in the same position as all other employees and, of course, OPG holders and that there is no difference in tax treatment. And let me only end up with one last thank-you to the citizens of Osijek who went to the city's district and local elections yesterday, in fact, that most basic part of local self-government especially for those who voted for the HNS that achieved almost 17% of the total result and the second option in the city of Osijek, I think it shows enough about how politics is run in the city of Osijek but also in the national and that it is absolutely the best poll that can be and which is most relevant and which citizens know how to tell us what and how we do. And once again, thank you all and thank my Retfalcians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u101862	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u101864	Thank you very much, President. A colleague, Curaj, injured Article 238 by saying that we are allowed to discuss the Marrakech Agreement or the compact in Parliament. This is an absolute lie and a lie, Parliament has not debated or made any decision or given approval to support the agreement and today will be supported. So that's where Parliament is being discriminated against by the ruling and committees and by the President of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u101865	Thanks, buddy Bull. Of course there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are now going to work as we predicted for today, the first is: - Proposal for a minimum wage law with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is respected Marko Pavić, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Minister, welcome and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120076	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. In 2019, the government decided to increase the minimum wage to EUR 3000 net yield of HRK 3750 gross. The above 248 kuna increase net is the largest since the introduction of a minimum wage institute in 2008. Before this increase in this government's mandate, we increased the minimum wage twice by 5%, as well as the latest amendments to the Minimum Salary Act where we excluded work on Saturdays, Sundays, overtime and holidays, an additional 3.3% was an increase, which means that in the term of this Government the minimum wage increased by 504 kuna and 23.9% respectively. The minimum wage from 1.1.2019 will be higher than in 9 EU countries. This includes already Bulgaria, Lithuania, Romania, Latvia and Hungary and since 1.1 we will have a higher minimum wage than the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Estonia. With this increase in minimum wage, the government has sent an important message that we want the dignity of our fellow citizens, 37,000 of whom receive minimum wage. However, this increase has not been done without compensatory measures or measures to keep employment in the labour-intensive industries, which primarily concerns skin, textiles, wood, metal, that there is no compensation or measures to keep from employment in these sectors. And that's why last year, we have defined the minimum wage law as a relief to the 50% contributions we keep next year. Also, since 1.1, a small value support programme will be implemented where, under the item of 1.3. but for the period from 1.1., it will be possible to apply to HZZ in the form of small value support, so it will be possible to receive up to a million-and-a-half kuna subsidies in 3 years for the purpose of retaining persons in employment, and also since 2020, we will develop a programme according to so-called ‘students’. GBER, or General Block Exemplification Roule, which will be able to generate subsidies for new employees and will not be linked to minimum wage. This bill retains existing workers' rights by retaining a prescribed definition of minimum wage. We retain in 2019 the calculation of contributions based on 50% reduction by repeating once again, we have several fuses so that employers do not encourage or that employers would not put people on minimum wage, which is last year they had to have 12 months. consecutively receiving minimum wages in order to get that relief at all, and next year they will have to have that people had to be on minimum wage this year. We are aware that this relief was broad and precisely because we are introducing sectoral reliefs from next year, we will go towards a reduction in this relief where in 2020 it will be half of it, so 25% and then go to zero. In addition, a part of the micro-employees is exempt, and in such a way that they do not have other employees, they are not obliged to pay themselves a legally established minimum wage. It also extends the scope of the parameters on which the resolution minister must lead when proposing a minimum wage height and is more precisely defined by the deadline until which the government is required to determine the amount of minimum salary for the next calendar year. With this increase in the minimum wage to 3000 kuna net, we believe that we have made a significant step in providing additional funding to those who receive this minimum wage and for a decent life, we are aware that it is small but we are also aware that a good part of the people who work in these industries, and we are primarily thinking about women over 50 years of lower education, that all studies show that they will remain unemployed or on social assistance if they lose their jobs so that this balanced approach considers us to have significantly increased the minimum wage on the one hand, so in the term of office of this government 504 kuna, 23.9%, so almost 1/4 and so that we are the first government to find compensatory measures so that employers in the labour intensive industries are able to compensate or protect workers from losing their jobs, and so that we have made more significant contributions last year's changes to the fact that, particularly, over-time work is not included in the minimum work, but also. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120077	I thank the minister. We have one replica number. First up, fellow Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120078	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you just said that raising a minimumer to 3000 kuna is net for a dignified life. Don't mind me, but none of us here in the House that sits, or the Ministry, understands what it is to live with 3000 kuna a month, and it's an impossible mission. Slovenians have twice the minimum. The proposal of two years ago to change Croatia is to raise to 4000 kuna the minimum net in Croatia or gross 5000 kuna, leave out further, means to release 50% reduction of the base for contributions, which you need to give to employers so that they can pay 4000 kuna net. Remove the maximum number of parafiscal duties that are exceeding 200, what else do you give them? For the amount paid by the minimumer between 3750 and 5000 gross, deduct that from their tax base. So these are the minimum things to stop the eviction from this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120079	Thank you. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120080	Dear Professor Lovrinović. It's easy to talk from the constituency benches like this, suggest, but this kind of significant increase that you're proposing, a populist measure that will lead to a few thousand, which will lead to... I'm sorry, up to a few thousand layoffs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Currently since 01.01.2019, Croatia has a higher minimum salary than Poland, Estonia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Lithuania and Bulgaria, we are 13th at the European Union's minimum wage level. I repeat again, that's why we've been doing the DESERVATION program, 7,000 women we've hired just over 50 years, who, by firing in such industries, in textile industries, in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia, would have stayed on welfare until the end of their working life. So we're doing a balanced policy, we're aware that this isn't much, but we're also aware that it's important for these people who work without losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120081	Thank you. Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120082	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Not going into the metric itself, which is irrelevant and totally missed at this point, because at this economic moment when you go with a minimum wage, you should consider jeopardizing a business environment and even working opportunities. What I want to point out is a breach of procedure. I can't believe anymore, that you just can't understand that we need to follow the procedure of passing the law. So, for the prior e-consultation impact assessment pattern, it took 14 days, not 30 days. The counseling took six days. The Legislative Office warns you that it should take 30 days. Do you understand me? The law has no condition at all to be passed, let alone by emergency procedure. You have no right to bring this law in this way, not to measure. Please respect democracy, democracy is procedure. You have to respect that. You have no right to pass the Law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120083	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120084	If you can use the microphone. Thank you. Well, Mr. Orepic, people with minimum wage have no right to wait for us to change procedures, we respected the procedure, sir,... We followed procedures, we spent a year working on these measures with employers to keep employment, it was e-consultation, we consulted with social partners. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Therefore, but it is those who have minimum wage who cannot wait and for them to be brought in by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120085	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120086	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. In any case, any change for the better is good for the citizens, but when something is done, then it should be done fairly, and an analysis should be done which is systematic. According to your answer, here's your colleague, Lovrinovic, you tell him a few thousand people are going to be out of work, it's a fruit of great analysis, expert consultations, and you've been thinking for a long time about how much, when you say exactly the number of several thousand, no, that's what really brings the trust of Croatian citizens when you represent the Law. What we insist on is 4000 kuna minimum wages, look only, compare countries in the environment, compare Slovenia, said Mr Lovrinović, over EUR 800, see Greece EUR 600, so on this side, we must go to give our citizens some basic guarantee that they will be able to live in Croatia, not with dignity, as you said, with 3000, no one can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120087	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120088	Mr. Maras, now you're saying one thing, when you were in power, you worked second, in 2015 you increased, in the government where you sat by 11.94 June, so 11 kuna and 94 June, minimum salary. So much for dignity and so much for SDP social policies. This government raised by 504 kuna, so 23.9%, by a quarter it rose from the minimum wage when it came. We improved the Minimum Payment Act, we ruled out, you had that opportunity, you could rule out overtime, work on Sundays and holidays from the definition of the Minimum Salary Act, so you didn't. Four thousand minimum wages is a populist measure, we could have raised it, but we're aware and we've made quality analyses of Mr. Maras, how many people are threatened with losing their jobs and for that we're the first government to bring compensation measures... for retaining employment. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120089	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120090	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, don't be boastful, but listen to what we're saying. The minimum wage is a measure to ensure that it is a protection instrument for workers from poverty and that it is an instrument that should enable workers to have a decent salary for their work. And what you're doing with this proposal right now is you're holding back the situation that was before, you haven't had any consultation with the social partners, and if you had, then you'd get into the law and the difficult working conditions. On the other hand, you raised the minimum wage because your salary increased and you kept the same ratio that you kept then 44% but by the end of the year this will not be 44% but we will fall below 40% as you have now in 2018. And don't be boastful, but answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120091	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120092	Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Mrsic, that you're transferring us when you were a minimum wage when you were a minister between 37% and 38%, and now we've reached almost 45% and our goal is to go to 50% in the long term. Article... on the work they are, the Labour Act are defined by these terms and conditions you mention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You had the opportunity to correct the minimum wage law, or the minimum wage does not include overtime, work on Saturdays and Sundays, and you did not. This government has once again raised its minimum wage by 504 kuna and almost 23%, respectively. In the last year of the term of office, 11 kuna and 94 June. I think the numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120093	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120094	Thank you very much. Minister, any increase in minimum wage is positive. However, the fact is that in the areas of two-thirds of Croatia, we no longer have workers in either agriculture or industry and without measures in those areas where I come from, without measures to have entrepreneurs measures that will not burden our salaries so much, we ministers will simply no longer have jobs. Something in Zagreb and around Zagreb, we see that the shipyards are near the end. We must give measures in two-thirds of Croatia's mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas to ensure that the entrepreneur can pay the wages. And these measures in this way the entrepreneur will not be able to have. For what? Because it's much more expensive energy, it's much harder to reach labour in these areas and it's without support and incentives simply won't be able to pay any wages, let alone minimal, I'm talking about mountainous mountain areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120095	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120096	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, that's exactly why this government invested 4.5 billion kuna in employment in the first 2 years. 2.5 billion kunas this year alone, 1.6 billion kunas of active employment policy measures, 900 million kunas of special programmes, specialized programmes from the European Social Fund. It's more than the previous government in all of the Madam. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on assisted areas, we have invested 150 million kuna. We redefine active employment policy measures, introduce traineeships, strengthen self-employment. Today the person who wants to have the company can get 55 thousand kuna while we, when we came as Government, are 25 thousand kuna. We currently have more self-employment support than the UK. So you can just not tell me how much the Slavonia project brings to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120097	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120098	Excuse me. Dear Minister, I can certainly say that any increase in minimum wage is certainly a step away from the previous time. However, what we are also aware of is not in the same circumstances. So we can't say that this minimum wage if we put it back a year to be the same as today in real, real purchasing power. I'm sure she came by in the meantime, and here's all I'm going to get you is some data that's changed, energy has increased 6.6%, less or more, but we'll agree that there's been a growth. Food has increased almost 3% of the price of food, houses and housing over 6%. So it is certainly that every government has to take care of this very social action because it cannot keep the lowest wage if everyone else grows I would say life costs and that is the fact. And we should stay on it. This debate on minimum wage is unfortunately in some previous time and now it's just covering the basic costs that we have and we haven't made them up to... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120099	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120100	Thank you very much. I also took this as a compliment to the government that it is social because we are just once again going to read I have, since 1.1. we have a higher minimum salary than Poland, Estonia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Lithuania and Bulgaria. We are aware that we should continue to work on this, and we are aware of what we are in law last year. And we're the first government to propose measures to keep our employees busy. From the European Social Fund and the European Pillar of Social Rights, which will implement 20 directives, further billions of kuna will be available from 2021, we will also concentrate on increasing productivity and upskilling our workers to increase their competitiveness and make more than minimum wages and retraining jobs that will be better paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120101	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, one key question. Therefore, the increase in the minimum wage of any kind will not really ensure the dignity of workers, but it is not a small amount of 250 kuna and how much it will help. However, the only real increase in entrepreneurs will look at it in a way that if you keep the reliefs that entrepreneurs now have and that is to reduce the base for contributions to pay by 50%. So what you proposed to the first-year entrepreneurs by law, so when you go to 25%, you take 75 million kuna. And when you completely eliminate it, you will take 135 million kunas to entrepreneurs, which is very serious money and a very serious compensation. I'm asking you to explain in which other way you want to compensate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120103	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120104	Thank you very much. Mr. Grcic, I am very pleased to see a change in the economic policy of the SDP. Last year you were against that relief and it was your main argument why you couldn't support the amendment to the law. Yes, with these employers we will lose about 80 million kn, it will keep the next Mr. But with the support of small value, which will go through the Employment Office, we will provide you with 200 million kn. Therefore, we are aware that the relief that was going on, that it goes broadly, that it also affects other sectors that perhaps should not be perceived in ease, we are going to go to targeted horizontal measures from the European Social Fund, through which we will provide more than 200 million kn for employers. Therefore, the following year they have the same level of relief, a year behind half the relief, and 200 million from the European Social Fund to compensate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120105	Comrade Sagar, here you go. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120106	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, at the beginning of his opening speech in the reasons of the law, you have expressed yourself well, the government has determined that the minimum wage will be net of 3000 kn. That's what you said. But later on, you're using a political discourse, so you're saying, we're going to make this possible, we're going to increase, we'd like to warn you, it's a good finding that the government has decided, and whoever does this is entrepreneurs, they're going to make it possible, they're going to increase the workers, of course with their work. In the debate, I'm going to say something more detailed about this, in that sense, the increase that the government is planning is good, but all these measures that you mention and now you've mentioned them in replicas, if that's what the government can do. If these measures are satisfactory for entrepreneurs to endure this salary increase, then that will be fine. And that's why I wanted to warn you don't use that political discourse, we made it possible and we increased, you set it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120107	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120108	Thank you very much. The regulation regulates the level of minimum wage brought by the government. So the government made a decision, and I can say freely, we made a decision. As for indexing other salaries on minimum wage, the system... Support will be very flexible and employers will also be able to come up with a programme to determine how many workers are at risk of losing their jobs and to seek compensation, i.e. a subsidy at the level of that amount, and we estimate that there will be up to 2000 million kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Mr. Government makes the regulation, and if the government brings it, then I can say, we bring it, and we bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120109	Comrade Sladovev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are again hiding behind statistics, as you said in last week that in Croatia unemployment is low, and you did not say that because of people leaving, you are now comparing the minimum wage with other European countries and do not say how much purchasing power is there, I think it is legally relevant. So this statistics, therefore, question how many Croatian workers for these 3,000 kn, can buy in the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, as much as in Croatia, it is real statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120111	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120112	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you pointed out these statistics and that statistics, I have just read the list of countries that have purchasing power and greater than Croatia, and the minimum salary less than Croatia. It is quite a success of this government that we have seven countries behind us since 1.1.2019, some of which have more purchasing power than Croatia. So we're more social and we're more concerned about the ones with the lowest incomes. 504 kn in 2 years 23.9% I know it's statistics, but I know it hurts, too, because you're not on this side and the government so you can boast about statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120113	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120114	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Pavić, you say that people in Croatia with 3000 kn will live a dignified life. I really don't understand how this amount can be lived with dignity, so I expect your ministry to create a manual for a dignified life in the Republic of Croatia, with 3000 kn and to publish it on the Ministry's pages, namely that you are a more important writer in HDZ, here we have a writer Dalic, a writer Sanader, a writer of Seks, and we can also have Minister Marko Pavić, who will promote a book of dignity in the National University Library. And that book will have several chapters, one will be how to survive with 3000 kn if you yourself, how to survive with 3000 kn if you have a family, how to survive with 3000 kn if you have loans, how to survive with 3000 kn if you are blocked and completed, I am sure you will sell in more than 45 thousand copies, than the book of Martina Dalic sold, better say... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120115	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120116	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, don't give me your word, I said we'd ensure a more dignified and better life for people with minimum incomes. People in every European country, there are people who do jobs for which minimum wage is secured, and some of the countries do not have minimum wage levels established. This time, I repeat again, and we will, from 1.1.2019, make a greater minimum wage of 7 EU countries, settle in about the middle of the countries, and also make it possible for these people to live better. In the term of office of this government, 710 kn, the average salary increased. We have an increase in employment of 71 thousand and one of the highest rates of employment growth, we have one of the largest, i.e. We have the highest unemployment rate. We are aware of the question of also demographics and the emigration of young people, for which we are doing a number of projects from the European Social Fund, for which we have introduced these 6 months. Retirementary training.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120117	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120118	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. Ministers with co-workers, you stressed that, in the term of office of this government, the minimum wage was increased by 504 kn, i.e. 23.9%, respectively, higher than in 9 EU member states. However, it should be pointed out that this is just one of the measures in a series of current governments, which the government is taking for a greater and better standard of our citizens, would remind us that from 1.1.2019, a 3 tax discharge will take effect where VAT on fresh meat, fish, eggs, vegetables will be reduced by half, i.e. citizens will save these tax reforms 2 billion and 700 thousand 2, 700 million kuna, that support for the newborn child has risen from 2,663 to 3.999, that the disability has increased by 20%, so these are all measures that the government is taking for a better standard of our citizens. And numbers don't lie. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120119	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120120	Thank you very much for pointing this out, this 3 step of tax reform where we have totalled citizens across and companies over 6 billion kuna, and what is even more joyful even before this VAT on fresh fruit, vegetables, meat, diapers and other merchants began to reduce those prices on their own initiative. Therefore, it is obvious that tax reform here brings about a better, all of these social measures that we are doing absolutely in there. I would only mention 7,000 women employed in the Programme "Learn", or billion kuna, would mention 300 million kunas that Minister Murganic also from the European Social Fund invests in the extended work of kindergartens, would also mention an increase, an expansion of the circle that children can receive. So we're absolutely aware and we're working on social inclusion, but we're also aware of finance, and for the first time last year, Had a surplus. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120121	Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120122	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, I am pleased when you say that the minimum wage is increasing, but we can know that the minimum wage does not say how much the Croats actually pay. We need to talk about the average salary here, and when the average salary is at stake then Croatia stands much, much worse. 21 countries have a better average salary than Croatia. Let's just say that there are over EUR 2,000 countries with over EUR 2,000, and we can say that there are similar prices in Europe for food for life. Just to compare ourselves to Luxembourg, Luxembourg has EUR 3.150, 3 times more or no more, I don't know how many times more than Croatia 684. That's the real information. How much does Croatia have on average, how many people really get on the bill? The minimum wage I agree with you, it's good if it were EUR 1,000. I would agree, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for life, a normal life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120123	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120124	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I am pleased that you have touched the average salary, because it has also grown record in the term of this Government 710 kuna, the average salary has increased, almost EUR 1,000, and therefore EUR 950 60 in the City of Zagreb. I have personally lived around Europe for a few years and in America and so on, if you compare wages, compare prices. The square of the apartment in Britain, the house my mentor in.../incomprehensible/... had 100 squares cost half a million pounds, so you look at the price. So you can't just compare it, if we look at absolute amounts again I repeat the average salary in the Republic of Croatia increased by 710 kuna, the minimum wage grew by almost a quarter to 3,000 kuna, the average salary in the City of Zagreb was almost EUR 1,000, therefore these are the successes we love and we can praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120125	Thank you, we will now see if the Committee's rapporteurs will take the floor, colleague Maras, chairman of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120126	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament held at its 40th session on 4 December 2018 discussed the Proposal for a minimum wage law with the final draft law delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body were also attended by independent Croatian trade unions, the Association of independent trade unions of Croatia and Matica of Croatian trade unions. In the opening statement, the applicant pointed out that the aim of the minimum wage is to be a social protection instrument for maintaining the existence minimum whose share in the average salary should be gradually increased. The level of minimum wage should allow for the achievement of the economic and social interests of workers with the lowest incomes, and for employers to plan their business year better as well as for simpler compliance with current economic developments. During the application of the legislator, the legislator observed that the law did not fully meet the objectives set in relation to the so-called ‘proposal’. I'll make it easier for you. a reduced base for the calculation of contributions based on a base of 50%. In the debate, the committee members supported a solution relating to the increase in the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will amount to a gross amount of HRK 3,750 as of 1 January 2019. The debate also highlighted certain abuses of certain employers in the calculation of the minimum wage pay in such a way as to include overtime, night work and work on Sundays and holidays. In their view, therefore, the union's view should be made more clear about the rights to an increased salary or to comply with this law with the Labour Act. At the end of the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes 6 for and 4 abstentions to pass the Minimum Payment Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120127	Let's go to the debate now, first place is the club of representatives of independent lists and respected counterpart Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120128	Thank you very much, Speaker of the assembly, respected secretary of state, co-workers, I would like to welcome my well-respected colleagues and colleagues to the minister, but here he performed the perfomans. Little would return only to this event that was happening this morning, here the speaker of the assembly said a little bit we were in the time of arrival so little and in fact I could positively say that we had one quality debate about it, then here we had now a minister who acted as if Grinch, as if he wanted to steal from us all Christmas what it was like to be attacked by someone because of what he had raised, his government, raised some pay, but he simply didn't realize that we were simply trying to make certain arguments showing the situation in the Republic and the needs our residents had because in this way arguing with this, with what but really looking at the ground. We watch our people accept all these measures that the Government in its, I try to apply but it doesn't work, it just doesn't work out, it doesn't work for his colleagues, because his residents are moving out, it doesn't work for me, because they're also moving out, then we need to look for causes if this doesn't show results then we just need to say that it's still not enough and that's what the message the minister was trying to pass on but he figured it out as if it was a personal attack on him and here he actually started biting all the MPs who were going to say something in that direction. I would find that this proposal, of course, makes certain changes, which happened not by this law but by the government's regulation is raising the monthly gross salary from 3439.08 to 3750, however, did not just raise the salary, the minimum salary but also increased the contributions on the salary, so the employer's costs have increased. I'd go back a little bit, actually, to these real examples we're looking at, and it's best to watch one, for example. one of the countries in which our inhabitants are happy to move. If we were to actually say here, I'm going to get a little bit attached to what the minister is, that it's true that the workload in Croatia is not the largest and it stands, the total labour costs are below the average that is in the EU and that stands. So the question is, if it's all so good, then why isn't there an economic rebirth going on with us, why isn't our wages growing accordingly? Because we have a distorted perception of the problem and this statistic that the minister was referring to, it actually shows that it's not just all numbers, sometimes it's in what we should look at a little bit and on the other hand, let's look across that line. Let's go back to this Ireland that I mentioned, meaning where here my Slavons are very happy to go, I would say and rejoice to leave and then actually come as the saddest messages, we never want to go back or it has to change a lot in the Republic to wish we'd come back. In Ireland, the minimum wage is around 1520 euros. So compared to ours, which is going to be 400 euros under this regulation, there's 1500, practically 4 times more, but right now this employer's burden would come back. So that means that employers would hire more people, they should have the total cost of workers as low as possible. And then on these 1520 euros in Ireland, the employer pays 1788 euros. So he pays 267 euros in fees. Now let's see exactly how the minister loves statistics, our indicator. So if the net of us is 3000 minimum wages, our employer pays an incomplete 4370 kuna, it is if we translate it into euro, 180 euros. Therefore, on our minimum salary of 400 euros, the employer pays 180 euros to Ireland, which is 1520 euros, the employer pays 267 euros. So practically, 4 times the salary in Ireland but the employer's giving is all the more and more 87 euros. That's where we should be looking for a real reason why we don't have investment going on. So an employer, like any reasonable economic operator, wants to pay their workers who are highly efficient, high-paying, but does not want to finance the state's spending. He doesn't want to finance all political failures and he doesn't want to live in a system that's messy and regardless of whether it's a positive change or a negative, we have changes all the time. Change to Change. We just have a system that's not long-term and we can't rely on it. We also saw Minister Horvat trying to promote himself quickly in public through the investments of Hyundai, but those who know the situation in Croatia always wonder where it would come from. Not spatially, we'd probably find space, a hectare would be enough. What's happening to us now, people aren't. There are no more people in Slavonia for such an investment, in Dalmatia, mountainous areas, no more people for that investment. In the coastal, Dalmatian work, there are people employed through tourism, and they complain that there are not enough people. Here north to have enough men, metal waists very hard. So we have to be aware that we have come to employ 100 workers in one position, it has become very demanding. It is very demanding sometimes for these measures aimed at employment in a way that promotes social employment and it is nice to arrange some local self-government, it is nice to help older and powerless but it shows that when we hire them on these jobs, there is nothing left for the economy. And we always wonder why we're not going actively towards the economy if we were to overdo all these measures there, probably our employers would have hired more workers. It is up to us to control, that it is fair, that labour prices are as fair as possible and that there is mutual satisfaction if already as a state but I would say, it is not a Croatian budget, all the funds that come from the EU that we are relying on, if we just broke out of this, it would prove that as a country we are actually taking care of zero as our workers. It's a fact, so if there were no Europe, we would kneel or what we would single out would be so miserable, I'm afraid that then the migration would be significantly larger. What I would like to mention about this bill here, we had in the last year's proposal, we are instructed to have a number of workers who receive a minimum wage of over 76,000 of them, and this says about 40,000. That's actually saying to this weight, which is what my colleague Bulj mentioned, we're missing the workforce, we're going to prescribe minimum wage, and in reality the employers have to pay more because you have no one left to pay, for the minimum wage you almost no longer want to do because the job offer has crossed the labour supply and not for the sake of investment, but because there's been such a terrible migration that our areas, especially the east or some other undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia have relaxed. What we're still getting into the eyes, we're going to have another commission, we're going to end one agency on one side, we're setting up a commission on the other side, and of course this commission is going to have an appropriate compensation for its work. So, it just shows that not we at the Ministry can't follow it all together, but we're going to put another series of provisions that will be, I hope, professional, and they're going to check if we know how to work and we're going to pay them properly. What we had with the proposal for a minimum wage law from 2017 after the increase in gross salary by 5%, the health base and the salary contribution decreased by 50% and as a result came that the total wage cost fell by 2.7% and fell to the HZZO burden, then this difference was also warned that this difference would have an impact on the health system and we see the immediate impact of giving, what should have actually increased the tax reform, the reduction of the contributions that would have been on the salary, where it increased, has increased precisely on the contributions for health insurance, a health contribution that increased to 16.5% and that is approximately, when calculated, 300, 400 million kuna. It's the price of the wrong decisions of the previous time, but I'm telling you, if those money solves the health system problem, then they'd say it's good. But what's visible from all the reports that come from institutions that are in health care, there's a promo hotel, a public money promotion. Public money management is only for the benefit of certain groups, and to the harm of both patients and doctors, we see that if we have two groups that are not satisfied with both patients and doctors, then something is definitely wrong with money management. What we have already said here, in fact, is that we are seeking more serious analyses to show that all of this impact will have long-term, and then we can say that when we sum up all of this together, on average, it would increase all wages in the Republic by some, we have calculated 1.25% compared to the last year, is that 1.25% on the standard won't change much, and it's significant to point out the important thing, let's not deal with the social policy as much as we should deal with economic policy because if there isn't a healthy economic growth, we are staying in poverty, we are listening to all social measures, we are lagging, and we are always going to run to try this standard that is already at the level of poverty, but we are keeping it in poverty, we are staying in poverty, and we are just maybe listening to it, and they are listening to this debate when we are talking about minimum wage, the minimum wage is not covering the cost of life. So, who lives on a minimum salary if one average family had, those who are employed, only minimum wages, they would be poor. So it's not a success at all, we can't even discuss this as a success. This is an emergency that happens so we don't really have, let's say, a social unrest. It shows that the wealth of people, entrepreneurs and all, means to raise them from poverty levels, can only be if taxes are reduced, if public spending is rational, minimal, where we will not have constant examples of getting something beyond the standard we live in. It happens to us that some of us are looking forward to, and now that certain jobs this government wants to do, they fall into the water because they think we don't need them, that we can live and develop without that kind of thing. To us, what we can say is that primarily here is constantly in the mind of this very word minister we increased this, we did what, we, we, we, we, who is more we, the pear is us, and the people it is the state, it is the nation this, it is everyone, and not just us and that minister suggested those who have received the trust of the government + those who have commercially given support to that government, and the result is us, and not all of us. When we grow wages as in one Austria by 14%, Bulgaria 13%, Romania 9%, Lithuania 8%, then there will be no more pirates, but will be watchful results and you will be satisfied. In this way every day we will listen only through media praises, only praises, means self - commendation not self - commendation but only praise those who think they are the best, that they have done the most, and most of all they are concerned with the question of minimum wages can't take this people for good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120129	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Following on behalf of the club of representatives, MP Davor Bernardić. Here you go, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120130	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, the minister probably has nothing more to do than be here when the Minimum Payment Act is. My colleagues and colleagues, what we witness in the Croatian Parliament today, we are witnessing another great attempt to deceive our citizens. In fact, by this law, you admit and correct your mistake from last year, which we warned and abolished a 50% reduction in the wage of all the employers who pay the minimum wage. By what you did last year, all you did was encourage employers to pay minimum wage, and so you created even more workers in Croatia who receive this same minimumer of unworthy human dignity and unworthy human life. For employers who are paid minimum wage in 2018, you will allow a transitional period and will keep that relief in 2019, 25% of it will be kept in 2020, so that later the employer will remain completely without that relief. All of this and this experiment just confirmed that it was another one of your failed experiments. What you are introducing, you are introducing a professional body called the Committee for the Monitoring of Minimum Payments, with the obligation to consult with the social partners, but it is unfortunate that it must be written in law because through GSV everything is known, that you should consult with social partners in everything, and what you did not do, you did not consult with social partners or on the so-called "social partners". Taxes, and neither is the so-called. pension reforms. And the real truth about your proposal is the following, while some get crumbs through a ridiculous increase in minimumers, rich people get forgiven for their direct debts and for them 15,000 of the richest headed by the Prime Minister are getting paid. You keep trying to explain to citizens how this increase is good and enough for them, and thus the Prime Minister lies and deceives the public and says that this salary ensures a decent salary with people with minimals. You see how hypocritical and boastful you are. The last tax reform to Plenkovic and Jandrokovic made a salary of 4,000 kunas net monthly from 21 to 25,000 kuna, while you often throw crumbs on the table and dust into the eyes of people who receive the church and live on the edge of poverty. You missed the last so-called. Tax quasi reform pays all workers in Croatia. Instead, you are under the pretext of migration and migration pressures on certain occupations to raise salaries only to those who have salaries of more than 17,500 kuna, but quickly this thesis of the government fell into the water. That this will stop the eviction of informers, pharmacists, doctors, engineers because you were even denied by the HUP, who said that the salaries for AT employees range between 8 and 12,000 kuna, so they won't feel it. That is why we in the SDP have proposed that the personal deduction be increased from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna, in order to increase the salary of 300 to 500 kuna per month or 4,000 to 6,000 kuna per year by 600,000 workers in our country. It is important that informationists, doctors, pharmacists, engineers and 100 thousand other workers, including teachers, teachers, health professionals, social workers, are among them. For these people who receive salaries between 5 and 7,000 kunas, only on the basis of tax disbursement would it increase between 5% and 6%. And with the increase in tax bases, the total salary growth for teachers, medical staff and social workers on the SDP proposal from the new year would be more than 10%, that's what you didn't accept. And we don't accept the government's thesis that there's no money for it, because if there's any for planes, obviously nothing, there's got to be for the workers. To increase the basics, the government has provided money in the budget, and for tax discharge it takes another 2 billion kuna and I urge you to give up the reduction of the general VAT rate from 25% to 24% and to provide exactly those 2 billion kunas to increase all salaries in Croatia. What we got last week's so-called. The tax reform quasi, we got that the government has reduced the VAT rate to some food products that will not bring anyone anything, except that it will bring much more profits to most traders, and 2 billion kunas to workers, as well as to what they mean. But what we have proposed and what is still in the parliamentary procedure, and as well as all the good proposals that come from the SDP and the opposition you refuse to put on the agenda, is the SDP's minimum wage law, which must not be below 4,000 kuna per month. 4,000 kuna per month is the minimum minimum survival in Croatia, and I hope that our amendment, which we will propose in the procedure, will also be supported by those representatives who have made a positive statement from the ruling coalition today. I call on you to support the amendments, to support the minimum wage in Croatia to be at least 4,000 kuna per month. What else our proposal differs from yours is that we increase the minimum wage with an average salary growth of 60% and we ask for harmonisation during the year, so that the minimumer will not be offended during the year because with your proposal, the salary of 3000 kuna will immediately arrive at the beginning of the year, for example. up to 40 percent of the average salary, but in a month or two, that salary will fall again below 44% of the average, so again at the beginning of what it is now. I am sure that, in this way, increasing the minimum wage and small wages instead of the growth of the large salaries that you have voted for would also increase personal consumption, which is very important for growth and development. Before the end, I must say and order a respected minister who is not here, you may be ashamed to boast that you are reducing unemployment in Croatia. What you have done with your policy and your measures has made 140 000 people who have left Croatia, deleted literally from the unemployment records and do not leave the people of Croatia just because they have low wages, leave because they cannot look at this injustice in your direction and how nepotism, crime and corruption eat up our country and our society. With the latest shameless example of nepotism, we witnessed at the end of last week when Minister Maric's sister became the director of the HanFA sector, who watches miracles, oversees Agrokor. And at this point, he's most likely writing a report to protect her brother in the Agrokor affair. Of course, the Prime Minister sees absolutely nothing controversial because half of his relatives were employed in Dubrovnik airport and he himself was one of the main actors in the same affair. The SDP will not give up its proposal to increase wages in Croatia as the only true measure for better citizens' lives and to stop emigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120131	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, Vučetić, Glavasevic and Žagar, colleagues Sagar, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120132	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's before I move on to the very essence of what we consider serious objections to this legislative proposal at the Independent Representatives' Club, allow me a brief introduction. In fact, we can all agree that democracy may not be the best social arrangement, but it is the best we know and the basis for democratic order and democracy that rests on well-studed procedures, systems and respect for these procedures, rules and systems, which enables every society to progress. A brief picture is about a recent event where the professor attacked two students because he could no longer work at school. From the way I see things, it's how I see things, because there are no clear protocols, clear procedures. Only that somewhere in the procedure it said that the professor was allowed to leave the classroom the moment he couldn't work anymore, so informing the principal wouldn't have happened. It's procedures, it's procedures, it needs to be defined from beginning to end. And you know who did the most damage to this society? All those who have hypocritically called on some institutions to do their jobs, and they have all done everything, literally everything to devastate these institutions, to make them completely ineffective, so it happens that in certain counties, the main institutions are individual parliamentary representatives, individual powers, local powers, and then they make up the main institution, they determine who the Director of Police will be, they determine what solutions the Tax Administration will bring, and these are the defeating things for this society. And why am I saying all that in this introduction? Well, because we are deeply dissatisfied with the way this law is proposed because this law does not define a clear pay policy. What are the main objections? The vague definition of minimum wage remains. workers performing low complexity tasks but under difficult working conditions shall be placed in an unfair position towards workers who carry out their jobs without difficult working conditions. The government continues to support the politicisation of the minimum wage process for the next calendar year as this law does not prescribe an independent minimum wage procedure. The minister said in the opening statement and said well that the government has set minimum wage levels. Later in his speech he spoke about how the government made it possible, the government would increase, the government wouldn't do anything. The government determines the level of minimum wage and on employers it is of course that they do so and, of course, on workers who pay it, they should earn it. What should we be thinking about anyway? Payment policy must be a certain, fair and transparent system, a system in which it will clearly know how to obtain a minimum wage amount. 3,000 kuna net wages to me sounds very round, interesting, 3000 kuna. How it happened, who calculated it, we don't know. Trade unions are in an awkward situation, how will trade unions object to a minimum wage increase? Employers were also brought into an awkward situation. If they object to the increase, today they are the biggest Grinchs that take away people's Christmases, who don't want to pay people anything and just because we don't have clear mechanisms and clear procedures. The Commission, as defined in Article 7, better not be defined. Then he should be expelled because if it was the purpose of introducing a commission to remove the minimum wage amount from this process, then the commission appointed by the minister, whose fees will be determined by the minister, will be left to the task, and then the commission will monitor the minimum wage because it monitors the minimum wage in the public. But in what way will it follow the minimum wage? Maybe a DZS report or some other documents. Therefore, the role of the commission as an independent body that could then do its job is not clearly defined. And, of course, the law does not define what kind of independent body will have powers before determining the level of minimum wage. Even this way, it is complicated to actually determine the minimum wage because consultation with the social partners should be conducted on the proposal of the Minister and ultimately on the government's decision. As far as the minimum wage is concerned, it is not good to bid on it because the minimum wage of course depends on a lot of indicators and one of the main drivers or causes of wage growth is certainly an increase in the competitiveness of the economy. And it's a little bit, I understand when the minister gets here, let me use that word of praise, but let him boast when he says what measures these are that will help entrepreneurs secure minimum wage and ultimately secure jobs. However, we must admit that these measures all refer to some short-term problems that an individual entrepreneur might fall into. And short-term measures cannot solve long-term problems. Because we have a situation here that in many industries, mostly processing minimum wages for many years are being maintained at that level, it is not now the current problem it is one long-term problem that should then be systematically solved. Then there is also the problem of those situations of entrepreneurs when they come into difficulty, the law does not clearly state which mechanisms will allow these entrepreneurs to lower or pay salaries below minimum wage unless there are collective agreements and practice has shown that by 2015 only 4 cases we have had such situations. As a result, this legislative proposal should be improved, made more effective and fully clear as to who it refers to and how pay policy will then be defined. That is why we will apply the amendments to this law and I will now briefly specify which parts of the law these amendments apply to, so that until the end of the debate we will bring them to the Secretary of State that there is time to be seen and that I hope that some of them will be respected. So the first amendment we want to submit is the amendment to Article 5. In accordance with Article 5(1), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The minimum salary shall be adjusted at least once a year in relation to the price increase, goods and services used for personal consumption as measured by the consumer price index according to the data of the State Statistics Office.’. This is on the trail of what my colleague Bernardic was saying on behalf of the SDP Club, the prime minister says our goal is, we will now secure 43 or 44% of the average salary but by the end of the year it will no longer be 43. 44%. The salaries will rise and the minimum wage will remain at the same value so the fall will again for that percentage and we will again per year, by regulation the government will again pursue that desired percentage and the desired percentage is 50% to reach it. So then we can make it a right that it won't happen. The mechanism should allow the minimum wage to be maintained during the year at that level of 40, drawn for that year. So every year if we have 1% increase, we'll probably get to 50% in 7.8 years. It's so hard to come. The amendment referred to in Article 6(3) beyond the words to the partners should be added, taking into account the opinion of the committee referred to in Article 7 of this Act. So that this commission that will be formed and which will receive compensation, we do not yet know the composition of that commission. It would be really good if it were an independent body, if it had the meaning of its only formation rather than being just a decoration or a ficus with a saying and the profession of making minimum wage has been consulted. And Article 7 of the amendment continues to concern the Commission. In accordance with Article 7(1), new paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be added, the Commission shall draw up an opinion on the minimum wage proposal for the following calendar year, and shall deliver it to the Minister and the social partners. The Minister shall explain, in the proposal for a minimum wage referred to in Article 6(1) of this Law, the reasons why he did not accept the opinion of the Commission referred to in paragraph 2 of this Act, paragraph 2 of this Article. This gives the commission strength and actually the justification for its actions. Because we have to say this from this pay phone if the goal of some people is to reward them by being in the commission so they will receive compensation with this practice should be stopped. Article 8 of the amendment also reads: The employer whose payment of the minimum wage referred to in Article 1 of this Act, as referred to in Article 6 of this Act, would be at risk of operating as a result of the termination of the contract for the work of most workers for the reasons laid down in that law, may apply a minimum wage of minimum wage established under the provisions of this Act for the previous calendar year. The amount of the minimum wage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be governed by a collective contract or by a decision of the employer following prior consent of the working council under a special regulation. The employer from whom the trade union does not act, or where no working council is established, shall be obliged to notify the workers at the workers' meeting of the minimum wage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. In the decision referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4, the employer shall inform the labour inspectorate. In the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the provisions of Article 9(3) shall not apply. The labour law. So here it is quite clear that even where there is no collective bargaining, there are no trade unions that can be made possible by that employer who has objective difficulties in paying wages below the minimum but that must be met by workers at his staff meeting. Because what's the point, in all countries, in Germany, they were scaring people when the minimum wage went up, they had the truth tied up with the minimum hour, that companies would fail, they'd get quits that didn't happen, that didn't happen fortunately. We believe that it will not happen to us either with a minimum wage increase, if the situation arises, or you will seek a higher minimum wage or we will go bankrupt and you will lose your jobs, that workers can decide on these cases, but that must be prescribed by a legal solution then. So these are some of the remarks that we put on this law and by the end of the debate we will propose, please consider them, the word is, these are the remarks to the law. What in public might be a hindrance, so we're talking here about a minimum wage law, not a minimum wage. They shall bring forward the Government by means of their own regulation. The government has ordered 3,000 kn. We welcome what is a minimum wage increase, but to know clearly in the future how these amounts are made. Not to say, I watched in the media, statements by individual representatives and associations of employers and trade unions, say no one asked us anything. Because this system must be certain and employers must, of course, know what they have, and must be correct, because here's an example, so someone who can't, can't, can't, can't, but let's do it so that whoever pays minimum wage to the workers, pays their profits. So what kind of employer you are, you get a profit, and people die of your job. Or these, when we talk about support, we need to put the same order in there. If someone gets support, these support must be to preserve jobs and then has the right to actually pay minimum wage, not to have laundry, but can, because it can't be otherwise. And not that he's taking support, and he's sharing profits, and if you look at his wages, his administrations, then we see that they're terrible amounts. We are not against the market, but this law and where the government is performing is to preserve social rights, today is a day of human rights, and social rights, fall within the category of one of the most important human rights, and therefore we ask you, here is a representative of the government, to consider these amendments, I hope you will respect them, and we will support this law accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120133	Thank you. We continue on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Bačić Branko, please welcome colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120134	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ MPs' club supports the proposal for a minimum wage law, as the minister explained earlier. In view of the fact that a Regulation on the increase in the minimum wage for 2019 is already adopted, which should amount to EUR 3000 in the net amount from 1.1.2019, this means that, compared to the salary of 2018, there is a 9% increase in salary, i.e. an absolute amount of EUR 248. So over the past 2.5 years, slightly less, this government has increased the minimum wage by 504 kn, i.e. 23.88% or perhaps simpler and more plastically, the worker who received the salary, the minimum salary in 2016 total had 12 salaries a year, and now will also have 12, but will have an absolute amount of 2.5 salaries higher per year. So it's not a small percentage of 24% salary increase, at the same time it's going to get, it's going to increase by 2.5 wages, minimum wages more. And it was clear that, and we talked about it last year, it was made clear that the minimum wage did not include overtime, that no work on Sundays and holidays was going on, and then, clearly, that this part should be singled out, and that the employer must especially account for and pay the worker, which additionally puts the worker, who is on a minimum salary in a more favourable position. In this respect, it was pointed out that this Minimum Payment Act was taken into account on the one hand by the worker, but also by the employer, because, as in last year's law, this was confirmed, the employer who accounts for the minimum wage will be allowed to reduce his salary by 50% and in 2019 by adding that this contribution will be reduced by 25% in 2040. Therefore, concerns were taken of endangered activities, in the process of order, leather, textile, wood industry, which is the most particiated with the number of workers, who are on a minimum wage. When we discussed the Minimum Salary Act in the Assembly last year, we said that in the Republic of Croatia, there were 76,000 workers with minimum wage, this year, as in the data provided by the Ministry, it was 37,000 workers. Thus, it was reduced by a double number of workers, who were on a minimum salary compared to the year before, and should be further noted, that the minimum wage was increased in the meantime. Therefore, in this context, I am also looking at this amendment that Mr. Žagar mentioned earlier, which is that during the year, wages should be subcessionally increased in such a way that the minimum wage growth follows the growth of the average salary in Croatia. I hold that in serious employers, the growth of average salary applies to all his employees and not to those who have minimum wage. Therefore, from the data that I cited on the reduction in the number of workers, who have minimum wage, partly lies the answer to the amendment that my colleague, Žagar, had just said earlier, which is that the minimum wage rises in growth and the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I would also single out information here on behalf of the HDZ Club, that when we talk about the economy of the Republic of Croatia, when we compare what is necessary to compare everything with the EU Member States, then the minimum wage in Croatia is higher than 9 EU Member States, which in a certain way speaks of the government's social approach to the most endangered category of Croatian citizens. When I talk about salary growth, I would certainly point out, that at the end of November, the government signed an agreement with the unions of public and civil servants to raise wages in 2019 and since 1.1. 3% and an additional 2% since 1 September, which will eventually lead to a total increase of 5% at the end of the next year to civil servants and public servants. So when we add to this the growth of salaries in that same category of Croatian workers from 2017 of 6%, then we see that it is about 11.25% in the mandate of this government, increased salaries to state and public servants, which is certainly necessary to single out. When we discussed tax reform here in the assembly, we also noted the fact that the Finance Minister of December 1st 2018 allowed all employees in Croatia to be paid, i.e. to increase the untaxable share of income, an untaxable supplement from 2.5 thousand kn, to 7.5 thousand kn. And it is possible for the employer to pay these 7.5 thousand kn of the non-taxable amount in accordance with his options either once or more, or as 13 salaries, but regardless of how and how each employer will approach the pay of that non-taxable allowance, he is at a monthly level of 625 kn. Therefore, it is possible for employers who can do so, without having to pay one kuna to the state, monthly to increase their salary of 625 kn. This should be particularly highlighted when we talk about possible wage growth and that the government, respectively, has left the possibility for employers to increase their salary at a monthly level of 625 kn without additional burdens. In this context, and given that I also mentioned tax reform, it should also be pointed out that the three rounds of tax reform were taken into account, from 1.1.2017 to 1.1.2019, during which time we discussed in the Croatian Parliament 3 rounds of tax reform, that Croatian citizens and employers were relieved with a total of 7 billion kn, which will clearly remain available to citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. But what I am in the context of right now, of those citizens who are most endangered in Croatia, is especially to separate that the VAT rate on live animals to fresh meat, fish, fruit and vegetables from 25% to 13% as well as non-receptive medicines is also reduced to 5%. When a basket is observed precisely by the citizens who are the most endangered, the basket of life, then it is seen that in this way, significantly reduced cost of living in Croatia, with reduced VAT rates and that this should also be particularly isolated. If we remember that in the 1st round of tax reform, we have reduced VAT to energy to 25%, then we can really say about the significant measures that the Croatian government and also the tax reform and other laws, such as the Minimum Salary Act, try to make life easier for Croatian citizens, i.e. make living standards possible. The minister seems to have been introspective and said that in the past 2 years this government and pension in Croatia has increased 6.4%, although the government's programme was designed to increase by 5%, so I say in the first 2 years pensions by 6.4% and probably as a result of the fact that the average salary in Croatia has been increased by 710 kn. Since the first of July of the following year, and we've heard that and we've talked about it through pension reform, an increase in the minimum pension is expected, by 3.13%. And what, when I already mention a number of data, which may best speak about the situation in Croatian society, about the situation in the Croatian economy, then I must mention that employment in 2019 in the second quarter compared to 2 quarters of 2017 has increased by about 71 thousand more employees, which gives us the 3 fastest growth in the employment rate in Europe. Therefore, these data are more accurate than which are published by the State Statistics Institute, which is conducted in front of the authorities and institutions of the state government, talk about the fact that GDP growth in Croatia of 2.9% or 3.1% in... The year also allows for these many measures when it comes to tax reform and pension reform, and when it comes to the minimum wage law, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, through the work of this government, clearly and macroeconomicly, i.e., the environment which in the EU, and then clearly and clearly with the numerous measures of the Croatian government, the growth of GDP, i.e. 3.1%, is possible for all of these data that are still talking about the growth of Croatian citizens' standards. In the section in which the minister stated, the possibility of using minimum support to preserve jobs and I would like to point out that many entrepreneurs in Croatia are already using one of... the category of minimum support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it is possible, at a three-year level, to achieve only one million and 500 thousand kn, i.e. 200 thousand euros, per employer for individual minimum support, should therefore be taken into account, a large number of employers, and probably those who will in future seek support for their workers, for those categories of vulnerable jobs, that they are already very likely users of one of the existing minimum-supports, so that it can come into question, as well as how well as how a certain entrepreneur will be able to use a new regulation that will go to preserve jobs. I am therefore aware that the European Commission defines the amount of minimum support the employer can use within 3 years to the maximum amount of 200 000 euros. It seems to me that the time has come, given that the amount of 200 thousand euros has been in Europe for over 14 years now, and it seems to me that the level of minimum support at EU level has been raised from 200 000 euros to 500 000 euros in order for this measure to take place in Croatia and for what the minister has announced could then have a certain effect. Because I repeat many employers by different types of use of minimum support despite the project that will be adopted will not be able to be users. For example, I know that the Island Law stipulates that an island employer who is based on an island for every employee on the island is entitled to one, depending on the category of development of the island from half to one gross salary per year. Well then, those employers who have a significant number of employees spend very quickly if they can say that amount of minimum support at a three-year level of 200 000 euros and then already in the third year, some in the second year can't use it. So it would be good to design, encourage, initiate an amendment to the Minimum Support Regulation in order to say 500 thousand euros and thus enable employers who have a significant number of employees to do so in addition to one category that defines the implementation of the Minimal Support Regulation and to this extent that is welcome to me, it is excellent and will serve many employers, for example in both wood and in the leather and textile industries, which are now not using that measure to provide them at an annual level, i.e. at a three-year level of around 200 thousand euros. So we will support this law in the HDZ Club of Representatives, we estimate that it is a good one, that the minimum wage under this law and according to the regulation adopted by the Government is about 44.85% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia that this is a significant growth, I say 24% in the last two years but, that is, the minimum wage has increased but should be continued continuously until the moment when no worker, if I can say there, is in the scissors of minimum wage and we have increased the minimum wage. So in this sense, we will certainly support this law and expect it to be clear that the Government will contribute by a number of measures and even more to this category of citizens covered by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120135	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club is a colleague of Branimir Bunjac. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120136	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. Here at the beginning to solve the dilemma, the Living Wall will support the raise of minimum wages for the reason we never will vote against the pay being raised. If you had suggested that they rise by 5k and back up and every step that could help the citizens is welcome. That's the difference between us and you gentlemen from the ministry who refused all 70 amendments to the Living Wall on Thursday, or opposition, and you're going to refuse exactly that there were 7 thousand in a row just because we proposed them and you see we don't treat you that way, no matter what you are our political rivals, we will still support your law. Because we're looking at content, not who's writing the law. 2.5 years have never passed, literally not a single amendment, not a law, not a single opinion you've respected. Once, the Ministry of Agriculture accepted half the amendment to the Living Wall and that would be it. So the second time you're accusing someone of being a cult, when you're accusing someone of not thinking about what they're saying, first compare this case that I just told you. However, what we must say is that this raise will not solve anything important, that it will not solve any key problem that plagues Croatian citizens and on this side we are giving the strongest criticism to the ruling, all parties to the parliamentary majority. Because this is literally about treating tumors with camels, tumors called salary heights, and ultimately of this increase, it's going to be the same as if it wasn't there. This hypocritical and far-fetched increase in minimumers is obviously the final act of the so-called final act. The reform of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, which was intended to pretend that something had been done in 2018, that it had grown and progressed and that, in fact, according to European bureaucrats and bankers, it was followed by further destruction of the Croatian people and our country. Let's remind ourselves over the years we had the first alleged reform of the judiciary, which changes happened, remind me? No changes are made because we are still the slowest to deal with cases not in the EU but in the world. African countries, Asian countries are far ahead of Croatia by the efficiency of the judiciary and we have, for example, 5 times as many judges as one Ireland. No one in Croatia considers the judiciary independent, not even judges. The vast majority of citizens almost 100% believe that there are privileged people in front of courts, Minister Bosnjakovic here said that he would resolve the executive law, according to the programme Reliable, what has been resolved? Where are your laws, where are those changes? Why isn't debt slavery broken? What is waiting to help citizens who literally suffer from day to day? It is important to understand that due to the Executive Act and the blockades, almost half a million people in Croatia live on a minimum because the Executive Law allows nothing more than to allow a man to have 3,000 kunas, so without a horizon he has paid 5, 7, 9 or 15 000, he remains 3. After all these great reforms, we still have a terrible trompe and an inefficient overpriced state administration, a position of nepotism and party personnel who support the immensely harmful tax policy that we allegedly reformed. We have reformed the tax policy and Croatia is at 130th, 140th place, on the competitiveness scale of us is better Serbia, Georgia, Armenia, after encouraging business opening we are also the world bottom, the world bottom is because we are unable to attract and let alone retain talents, our universities are in some 1500th place behind Zanzibar, and the whole area that comes down to installing the earrings that milk money from the state, in the face of politicians. Tax reform has raised wages to these people here and here, people who rarely do what we see best in this scene in the Parliament and who in no way plan to leave Croatia, have never thought about it because they are simply better here than in Germany, France or the UK. They increased by tax reform to give money to Minister Kujundzic, a total incompetence who is unable to implement reforms but who day and night destroys healthcare, which is 8 billion kuna due, will now give you another billion, so I don't know, cigarettes are rising by 2 kuna, so a whole series of other duties, all going to him, never enough, without an end. This was the goal of tax instead of estimating medicines, to reduce the waiting list, again all the burden of someone's incompetence is transferred to the back of taxpayers, and then finally when all these groups settle down, Kujundzic and I don't know which not all of them, Plenkovic and Presidents, fund managers and board members, then some crumbs are given to citizens, then you are told here are 200 kunas and now instead of 2800 you will work for 3, you will lead a dignified life. I don't even know how to get some cheek, how someone has no shame in saying that 3,000 kunas live a dignified life in the Republic of Croatia. So much lack of empathy, so much narcissism, that it's something amazing. He says we've given some rights to employers, if you're already giving rights to workers and employers, then even the rights of the state and the real sector. Let people in the real sector have normal payrolls, get a Christmas card, get a regress, jubilee awards, a warm meal, all overtime hours paid, that would be a reform. You don't even need to raise the minimumer, just to implement the measures I said, every employee in Croatia, you'd feel much better than you feel right now. A week ago, there was a pension reform here called pension reform in the Republic of Croatia, a pension reform called pensioning pensioners. It's a pension reform. As if they weren't penalized enough a hundred times already, now they need to be penalized for the first time. He works until he's 67 years old, you can't go to early retirement, you can't get money from II. You can't get the money from III now. It's coming. The pension ratio and the average salary are getting smaller and smaller and it is forbidden by international conventions that the pension will be less than 40% of the salary and we will have less and more. The government says we gave the pensioners 49 kuna, where exactly 49, reminds me of the Boss, it would almost be 49.99. And he says here it's a big increase, it's not that small. And tell me, gentlemen, how much price increases in the meantime, how much inflation was, how much more direct they are, how much more expensive the fuel is, how much more expensive the food is. Prices are rising by rate, I don't know, cost of life at some rate of 1,000 to 2000 kuna a year and you raise them, I don't know, by 49 kuna. Says Minister Pavić 3000 kuna is enough to live on, is, to him, he eats and once lunch with his team of 3,000 kunas at the restaurant. Don't let me get the bills. If you want, we can do that. Just because he eats for one lunch, it gives people a decent life for a month one family I don't know, that a man takes care of two children and I don't know who he has in the household. Three thousand kunas to no one who has a chance to go abroad will not be kept here, guaranteed. And those who here, who have no choice, 3000 kuna... 200 kunas, they'll cheer them up for two days, and then they'll forget about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people will return to their misery, and the misery in Croatia looks like this to the gentlemen of the Ministry. When you get paid, you have three days. You get paid on Monday, you don't have it on Wednesday. And you know what, then? Then you have to work extra, one, two, or I don't know how many jobs, then you have to borrow, go to minus, cards, you have to borrow from your brother, sister, mother. Croatian citizens borrow money, not to buy something, but to survive. Try to borrow some money once, and they'll know how humiliating it is. People have to save on the most basic things, on the direction, on the food savings, clothes can only dream, some exits, transportation, cinema. Impossible mission. They suffer immense stress because of their small and underpaid wages. You've ruined their every life's joy. You destroyed their culture and identity. And forced them to fight like slaves for a naked life. You say the European Union will help us, they're great, they're great, why, what are these people doing on the streets of France when it's so good in the European Union? Why do they break everything in order, burn cars, fight the police? Well, to me, it'd be a scene in Damascus before, it'd be a scene in Tripoli or Baghdad, and we see in the heart of Europe, if it were happening. Is that what we're trying to do, do we want to be like the French? That's the goal, and that's where people say they can't survive the moon. There's obviously some other reason, some other reason. People in this system, the banking bureaucratic system, once again, are reduced to slaves who exploit, rob and poison. It's the world we live in, and it's the world that you represent us here as some kind of good. It's a world where people suffer endlessly, and at least they live with dignity and happiness. And right on the orders of the European Union, you pushed us by the neck of the currency clause and the unrealistic exchange rate of kuna that destroyed all domestic production, especially food. Now you want to put in a euro for which Croatia is absolutely not ready. All analyses show that by introducing the euro, Croatia will enter a state of permanent recession, remember, gentlemen, permanent recession. In a tunnel where there's no way out, there's no light at the end of the tunnel, a tunnel that's ultimately walled by thick walls. Yours, the results of your work will be to bring Croatia down to an empty country where old people will live ghettoized in shelters like Indians in reservations. And as much as you don't listen to me right now, history will remember my words. If it stays like this, in 15 years, you'll be reading this speech of mine and crying, because what we have now is still wonderful for what's to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120137	Thank you. We're continuing the debate of the Representatives' Club. The next on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club is counterpart Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Comrade Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120138	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Final Proposal of the Minimum Payment Act, I think that is already said, that this Law does not determine the amount but lays down frameworks for determining the amount, but what is good, and deadlines. Therefore, the first thing to be immediately clear and precise and stipulates that the minimum wage must be paid by the Government Regulation, so by 31.10. for the next calendar year, so that employers can plan their business or budget their costs better and more precisely. What we learned from the Government Regulation that the current salary, minimally, increased or increased to or from 3750 kuna gross or 3000 kuna net, compared to what was valid this year, is about 250 kuna more, i.e. slightly less than 300 kuna of the employer's additional cost. And in fact, by this Law and by making it easier for those who paid minimum wage, so they don't have any say that relief is true for those who will use it and apply to the minimum to make it happen, we have a ratio of actually 1:1, as much as kuna is a higher cost to the employer, actually that kuna goes to the expense of the employee himself. Now, we've heard a lot here, wishes are one thing, possibilities of course are another. We need to know that the salary level and they were according to the 2013 Law, otherwise the salary height is the first time minimum in Croatia, it was established by the 2008 Act, until then we had no minimum wage, we had only the smallest basis for paying the contributions, so it served as a minimum wage. In 2013, we also had a table exactly as calculated under the Law, in relation to all factors which are listed here in the Law, of course from index consumption, price growth, from the number of household members and so on. But what is certain is that by simple decision, by decree, we cannot do and cannot, which is the most important, because here I hear dangerous suggestions because no one can tell me about 300,000 workers on a minimum salary that if we raise them by 2,000 kuna, that 200,000 of them are out of work, that this is a good thing for this country, which is the labour market, supply and demand. And we until we have an economy, which is what is most important and economic criteria, the economy, the purchasing power that will enable wage growth, there are measures. And that's what we've been saying all along and when we talked about tax laws, that means any tax bill that came from a ma and an opposition, anyone that doesn't know what it's doing, to people who have a minimum wage wouldn't bring anything. Then let's raise them 1,500 kuna, so why don't we let that company buy a product that's 20% more expensive or somebody buys someone else's, and that company crashes and people lose their jobs. Then who'll vouch for them? We must enable people to have purchasing power, and I see it on my example from Osijek and Zagreb. That's all, not Croatia and Europe. Where is the difference of purchasing power to me, where we pay up to 30% less in Osijek for one product than in Zagreb, why, because there is no purchasing power, so here the same saleswoman in the bakery has a 30% higher salary. And no minimumer should be determined for it because the simple market dictates it. And here when we talk about the minimum wage law and only the minimum wage amount, we need to coordinate with what is most important in the index of consumer prices and inflation growth. That there is no abuse is there really that this purchasing power for these 3,000 kunas today, of course, is not the same for 2 years or not the same thing as it was 10 years ago. And that and that's the law and that's the meaning of this law, but to go into a debate that bids more is dangerous and absolutely impregnable, I don't think anyone would normally sign 100,000 cancellations by such a single decision. And in the intervention of the state economy, so that the state pays someone to do something, then my people go back to where we thought we had escaped, and I want to see who wants it and who says he was better off in that country and that system, so let's make it clear and loud that he wants to go back to that country. So we can't do what's right for us, and when we do what's right, the goal is a series of measures, one by one can't solve the problem clearly and loudly, neither the tax nor the pension, nor the minimum wage, nor everything we do this year and 50 laws. But we have to build a framework for our economies, for our economy to only regulate the labour market, so that's what it does. And this untaxable part of the income that I was talking about today and at the break, or in free speech, is also one of those little things that can make a difference. And we have to insist on that, not burden the economy too much, but give it a chance to develop and only regulate, people go to us, go to work for more money, not for minimum wage, but to go to work for more money. How can they get that salary here without this economic operator failing to continue to be competitive on the market, is there no doubt about it? The honor of exceptions, when you come to the shelf and choose between two products of similar or equal quality, is always chosen cheaper. And you tell someone, you don't have to buy more expensive because that's our producer who we said had to have that big salary, there's no such thing. And if this product has a higher price, it must be shown by quality, clearly and loudly and there we must allow as a state that these products are indigenous, domestic, original, quality to be promoted, to be clearly said that people know why they pay for it. I'd be the first to afford my children healthy food, even more expensive, though, if I can afford it, of course, but we can't impose any regulations on having to do anything. Because that something has to be done, ladies and gentlemen, 28 years ago. And I think we all ran off with our heads no matter what, but it wasn't good back then either. And whoever says otherwise is lying. Therefore, the HNS Club will, of course, support the final changes to this law, realistically according to what has been estimated here, the cost of working for this most sensitive target group will increase by 4% with this 50% and 7% next year. I think the measure is good because it defacto allows 1:1 to increase wages to workers and those untaxable 7,500 thousand kunas that can go to 400 kunas per month as much as it can bring some difference without overloading that employer. Because it's not our goal to prescribe everyone that they have to get 10,000 kunas so that they all fail and that nobody does, and the goal must be that they all have 10,000 kunas, but it's not done by decree it's done systematically and that's what they've been trying all along and I hope with much more success and much more effort because that's what the citizens have given us in the task, regardless of these little, opposition, position, constantly each other, when we're in opposition everything can, everything we want, when we come to it then says it can't, it's been them, it's that I think it's the folklore became. But generally we have to go in that direction, but what we're telling us is a ladder of Doing Business, it's someone mentioned, it's not a dispute about it that we fell down in the sense that something bad, no better are results, but others are even better. So we have better indicators than the last, but others have even better, so they're growing faster. And that's where we all have to get into not five or six but hyper-speed and work to skip everything. That's not why we're going to be 40, 48 or 52 so irrelevant, but because our people live better, bigger salaries get and better, of course, stay in the end line and live better. Therefore, the conclusion of the HNS Club will support the proposal of this final proposal of this law, but I say it is not even that final solution that is what the Government must give minimally. I'm more than willing to leave the market and pay the market and always find a buyer for the product but we need to know the frameworks and know how it works and how that country needs to be shown and I think this is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120139	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB and counterpart Branko Hrg. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's our club will, of course, support this proposal to amend the minimum wage bill. By agreeing with a good part of the debate of fellow Curaiah, which he had said a little while ago, I must say that our thinking in our club is still a little bit, a little different. Looking at things just like this market, then it would always be best to leave things to the market and let the businessmen pay the people the wages they can pay. It's possible where there's not such a high percentage of poverty. But here when we talk about minimum wages, then we can't just look at the market, we still have to see that in Croatia a huge number of people live in poverty because they have low wages. It is certain that we should do everything possible to make sure that the Croatian economy that is extremely fragile steps forward, to become more competitive, to increase, to be an entrepreneurial spirit, to pay higher wages, but all the more expensive when I add up something wrong. Because no matter how far back these two years, a series of laws that have the intensity of tax discharges still don't happen to us, we don't move to raise people's salaries except in one smaller part. In the summer of this year, when there was already an ongoing issue of raising minimum wages and tax charges so that people could be paid a higher salary, I talked to some entrepreneurs who had already suggested that one of the ideas be also an increase in the untaxable amount that was made by the latest amendments to tax laws where this untaxable amount at the annual level reached 7.5 thousand kuna. I didn't exactly come across some dissuasive thinking and opinions about entrepreneurs and the need to increase and the minimum wage because everyone is already in couture with workers today, workers are leaving, simply going after a bigger salary has a wider choice and surely that all of this is expensively impoverishing the Croatian labour market. Last year, at the 11th month, the Croatian Democratic Party meant it raised the issue, we asked ourselves how to get to, then we said minimum salaries of 4 thousand kuna. We've suffered a good number of criticisms about it. But only 3.4 months after that, the construction sector in Croatia signed a collective contract with a construction union where the minimum wage is 3800 kuna. Today we have a situation that allows employers to pay their employees a salary of 3600 kuna net monthly if we add that supplement that can be distributed per month, it does not have to be paid once, so it is 7.5 thousand kuna, with this amount of 3000 kuna we get 3600 kuna possible payouts without some major extra tax burdens. What are the other moves, what are the steps that need to be made to make that possible? Recently, on the City Council of the town of Križevec, we proposed the elimination of consumption tax in catering, which is, we know that it can be up to 3% and that local self-government can and does not have to charge that consumption tax. We calculated that this could enable the caterers to raise their salaries to about 200, 300 kuna per month if they did not pay that consumption tax. Here's a little space that could be used. The proposal wasn't accepted, but well, we won't surrender. So it's the same message according to local self-government that she sees that people in local self-government see where they can and how to help this entrepreneurship that should direct all the money they have towards their employees in order to keep them in the first place, so that these employees stay in their businesses, in their crafts, in their companies. Probably one good part of the problem that lies on it is what we discussed the other day, which was the State Inspectorate Act. And there's a place where craftsmen and entrepreneurs can be helped to pay people a higher salary. If we don't cut them drastically for some small misdemeanors, we charge them a fine of 10 or I don't know how many thousands of kunas because they don't know how much they charge for a job of 10 kuna. I've just got a fresh example that I'm not going to talk about today, but if it comes to him, then I'm going to talk a lot about it because it's a shame, it's a shame. All of these are, therefore, things that can be discussed and where concrete moves are needed to really come into the situation that we don't need minimum wages to come into the situation that people in the Republic of Croatia have that salary to live on, because not even of this 3.000,00 kn will actually be able to live, they won't be able to live normal, they will survive, as they are now surviving, but it's a big shift and a big step along those 7.500,00 kn, now this and therefore, compared to 2015, when the minimum wage net was around 2.420,00 kn + 200,00 kn possible from those 2.500,00 kn untaxable, we have now come to, meaning, at 3.00 kn + possible 600,00 nontaxable monthly, it is still a big step, but it's not enough, but it's a step and we have to compete and compare these periods, period 2015-aday, 2018- 2018- 2018. We have to compare it, and those years ago, they weren't really great and great, they were even worse because the employers were saying then, it doesn't matter if they won't work for that much, there's 100 of them waiting to work in the register. That's how it was in 2008 when I heard here from the bench mentioning it. That's what happened back then. No more of those lines, no more of those lists. People just don't get to underestimate each other anymore because it's underestimation. And however we want to, don't want to, whatever you say here that we can leave it to the market or we can make some moves, we have to make moves, moves have to go towards people getting bigger salaries, especially those who have salaries below 5.00 kn, those are the most, these are the most endangered, and every step, every move has to go that way. I believe that this is a trend which is good that it will continue, that the government's policy will continue and the ministry will be to go towards tax discharge by entrepreneurs, craftsmen and at the same time opening up opportunities for people to get higher salaries. It's the only way we can wake up and start restoring some normal atmosphere in a society that's not normal right now, it's negative, it's bad, and we need to be all aware of it, that's what we meet every day, people are unhappy. It's just that, it's gotten into the bones, it's been going on for too many years, it's gotten into the bones. Only laws that increase wages will be able to do so in a positive way. And it must continue to be a path and work done by the government that we from the parliamentary majority support and advocate as we will support and support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120141	Thank you, too. And last on behalf of the HSS rep, colleague Zeljko Lenart, here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120142	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Minimum salary, 250,00 kn increase, well, of course, we are all to increase the minimum wage for any amount and we can all say that to support such amount, but such a law that increases only 250,00 kn HSS will not support it. We represent that the minimum wage should be 5.00 kn, but not at the expense of employers, but at the cost of the state, not at the cost of giving which is poured on the back of employers, but the state should be relieved of what it requires of those who hire. One who hasn't tried to hire one and pay one salary, let alone 10, 20, 100 or 500, doesn't know what that means. Today we have 40,000 employees with minimum wage, 40,000. Half the employees have a salary of between £2.50.00 and €5.00, 86 000, with 6.000,00 kn to €6.500,00 from around €1500,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia. And then we wonder why our situation is like that. So what are these people gonna spend? What? How can you spend... when there are no people who can spend. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those who have 6,000,00 kn salary if they have two or God gave three children, so they can't end the end the same. Well, all this has led to politics, so these people who work have not led to the fact that wages are low and that there's a lot of spending. We have a list of the shame of employers who haven't paid for giving to the state. I'm curious what the government has done about it? Nothing, it's not mentioned anymore. They say ministers, we're the social government, I wouldn't say this is the social government. Look at how many people are digging through containers, look, there's more of them every day, not less. The law says, setting up a Commission to monitor and analyse the minimum wage movement. So don't we at the Ministry have enough people who have to follow it or who can follow it, but we're going to establish a commission to recapture a number of those who obviously don't know how to do anything, but to come to those committees and get some pay? Today, we have over 6,000 people who don't get paid, whose employers don't pay their salaries. They also have a minimum wage for a dream, let alone a payday. It says that the number of employees in October dropped 5.4% compared to the previous month, so where is that increase then? What are we growing up in? Obviously not. The number of unemployed in October compared to September means that despite the fact that we do not have the workforce, which is about 350,000 people have gone to richer EU members, we still have a decline. The problem with all this is those things that don't pay. Overtime hours, very few employers pay increased overtime or pay work on Sundays and for that again the government is guilty of not respecting the laws of the Republic of Croatia because the inspectorate goes where they are and where they are great as Agrokor, there they should not have come. It was forbidden, it was God's garden, there only those who were alike could do it. It also says the director's minimum salary increases and limits to 5491 kuna. And why do we directors now get out of this if the minimum wage in Croatia is what it is, so let it be as minimal for the directors because no director in the state company has such a small salary. Such a small salary can only be made by those who are forced to be appointed to their company as director, to be paid. So let's let them go. Then let them decide, so that they'll be solidarity with all the workers, and let them have the same pay. A minimum wage in Germany, which has been raised from 8.84 euros to 9.19 euros, will now be in the Republic of Croatia with this increase of 2.47 euros. 3.72 times less than it is in Germany. Is it cheaper gasoline in Croatia? Are cars cheaper in Croatia than in Germany 3, almost four times? Is food cheaper? It's nothing. It's all more expensive to us than it is in Germany. We import second-hand vehicles from Germany that are more expensive because someone else earns on them than in Croatia and we pay excise duties in Croatia. I don't want to pick up everything else. The union basket for this year was 6724 kuna in August, meaning more, twice as large as will now be the new minimumer in the Republic of Croatia. Two minivans one union survival cart. But look, we're on our way to getting a plane that might be happy for the Croats, happiness for the Croats, and thanks to the Americans, we're not going to buy almost 3 billion euros, kuna, pardon. If these 3 billion kunas were divided into 40,000 unemployed, you have 75 000 kuna a year by the unemployed who has the minimum wage, if you split it into 10 years how long that payment would last, that's 7500 kuna a year to raise the minimum wage, for 40 of those who pay. The cost of salaries in Croatia is too high and it also destroys the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs on the European stage and does not allow entrepreneurs to raise wages. And... Now on that minimum wage that costs, it's going to be about 3,000 kuna, ex-gross. Gross of 3000, I will return to the one before this increase because we have not yet passed this law, meaning gross to pay the worker minimum wage, the company must create a value of 3439 kuna, not that, but 4031 kuna is an amount that must be created by the employer in order to pay 2751 kuna, which is 1279 kuna or 31.7% less than the total cost of workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 31% is now forced on minimum wage. Well, it's on a normal salary too much, let alone a minimum. And of that minimum, the state still takes 25% of VAT, that worker pays 25% of VAT to the state. And when we go into a pay parchment, the minimum salary that is now 2751 means 31.7% of the fee, the minimum salary of the director 32% of the fee, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia 40%, the average salary in Zagreb 40.3% of the fee and the average salary in... Sector 44%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who can be competitive with that? He can't. And now we're coming to Ireland, I won't say unhappy because for many she's happy because they've saved themselves, the minimum wage in Ireland is 1613 euros, approximately 12,000 kuna. If it were a salary in the Republic of Croatia, gross would be more than 19,000 kuna for her. Romania's minimum wage is higher than currently in the Republic of Croatia. So, people, where was Romania before Croatia? Where was Romania in Croatia compared to the 90th? Where has Romania been all these years? Romania has overtaken us. And then our politicians talk, I'm from Sisak-Moslavina County, the mayor of my county is Ivo Žinic who says about these young people who left Croatia, in his speeches he says, there is not enough patriotism in them. They do not have enough home education instilled and are leaving Croatia. Imagine a mayor, normally, HDZ mayor who says so and he took one of his sons to be the mayor of a pro in Glina, in the poorest city in my county and another son hired in the prison system not as a guard but found him some convenient place and that as they say, punished him for working there. Today I shared a video on Facebook so it wouldn't be just for us from HSS and opposition politicians to criticize the government to talk about fraud, betrayals of the Croatian people. Mr Nigel Faragel explained to the European Parliament that Yugoslav communists, hiding behind the names of HDZ, have taken over power in the Republic of Croatia, and the European Commission manages them with bribery and corruption. Here, look what a man says, has a nice translation down there, he very well explains what it is and how it is. My dear gentlemen, if we don't raise our salary in the Republic of Croatia, and there is room, we just have to cut to those fees, I can tell you that in a cartoon way if we have a net of £4,000,00, it's grossly nearly £8.00. Let's leave the gross as it is, raise that net to 6, it's going to reduce the state's giving, but you all know that 4,000,00 kn and 6,000,00 kn is unworthy of life and that the family is going to spend it all. Of all that is worth, as I said, the Republic of Croatia collects 25% of taxes, VAT, means that spending will increase, through that kind of state will collect its share, people will not leave us because there will be far more wages, but what our people are currently not asking for much, but what they are now getting is too little, people, this is too little for people to live in the Republic, young people have to take care of themselves, they have to start families, children, kids today they have demands, they are not as if with little cost they could raise children, education, additional activities, drive them to school. Let's try to make this step, maybe it will make financial business in the country a year and two more difficult to do in the long term, but it will provide benefits because it will ultimately bring more money to the state by higher employment, higher wages, higher spending that will cause new jobs, resulting in people staying in the Republic of Croatia, ultimately bringing more money to the budgets and units of local self-government, than it is done today. This hiding behind £250,00 and drilling into your chest, here we are in HDZ making a big step for our people. You didn't do anything, gentlemen. You destroyed this country. All those who have real estate, not in Zagreb, not at sea, in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, wonder how much your property was worth in the 1990s and how much it is worth today. It's not worth 30% of what was worth 27 years ago, 28. And through that vision was robbed the Croatian people. And now, after all, we're out of the country, driven by people. The biggest tragedy is that children of Croatian defenders, the real ones who rotted in trenches, who lost body parts, were wounded, some unfortunately and died, their children leaving the Republic of Croatia. So what were these people fighting for? For this, for this kind of relationship with a little man. We'll see you today what our interest in minimum wage is. How many members of the HDZ are here? Here, honor the two who are here today, even two people from HDZ follow, here's Mr. Totgergeli, here's three, which doesn't significantly repair your presence. So there's no interest, and simply the ruling caste doesn't fight for a little man at all. They just don't care that they're digging through containers, they don't care that we have railroads today that you ride twice as long on the same route as 30 years ago. We sink in all segments of people, in all segments we sink, all our industry is gone, everything is privatized, and simply people have lost hope, just don't be surprised if France and the Republic of Croatia happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120143	Thank you, too. This ended the debate on behalf of the club of representatives and we are starting with an individual debate on the proposal for a minimum wage law from the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. My colleague Miranda Mrsic was the first to be reported. Here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law should offer a simpler and fairer minimum wage system, but whether this law is, is not. In this Law, it was necessary to define clearly what is going on in the minimum wage, in this Law it was also intended to define the objective which is to be achieved with this minimum wage, which is to reach about 50% of the average wage paid. This Law should also define that during the year the minimum wage does not oscillate as it now oscillates because what it today will not be at the end of the year, as seen in 2018 when the minimum wage, when determined, was about 42%, and then if you compare it today, then it is below 40%, somewhere around 39%. But to get back to the past, there's no minister, so the secretary of state will tell him, to go back to the fact that by 2008 HDZ passed a law that went towards defining minimum wage and what happened afterwards? The minimum wage was set at 36 and 39%, respectively, because such a calculation of the minimum wage was simply no chance that the minimum wage would exceed 39%. It was only sometime in 2012 when it started into the new Minimum Payment Act, when the minimum wage was calculated in a different way and then the minimum wage was launched and it became what it was supposed to be, followed by an increase in average, average salary. From 2008 to 2012 the minimum wage was adjusted only once, and very minimally, here is so much about who is coordinating and how who is now boasting that there is HDZ decommissioning the minimum wage and is now paying more. I wonder who was in power between 2008 and 2012. Simply then the way the minimum wage was defined was not good and was not wrong. The minimum wage must not be subject to market conditions as competition rules result in competition between each other and competence which is not taken into account in the event of minimum wage. But what minimum wage should be provided should be to ensure that workers have a reason to work and that their work, honest work, is paid fairly. It is also a competitive mechanism because it also ensures the competitiveness of work in Croatia. Therefore, everywhere in Europe, minimum wage is defined at the level of 28 Member States, 22 have minimum wage, but see the devil in most of these countries is defined by a tripartite dialogue, therefore, a dialogue between trade unions and employers, and that is what should be pursued by this law because this law has also taken over from 2008 until now, which is to be defined by the government regulation and by the government's decision. Therefore, this law should also provide that this part of the definition of minimum wage should be agreed between trade unions and employers. This is where the commission is set up to be a clean ficus because there are no parameters that would define why the minimum wage should be 50%. Because there is simply no such thing in the law, the government's commitment to minimum wage in Croatia is 50%. As the minimum wage is important as the Institute for the Protection of Labour Conditions and in other countries, the fact is that the vast majority of EU countries have been raising minimum wage in recent years. Today, the minister boasted that we are in front of some countries, etc. but it's a bit of a failure, so he didn't say how much you amounted to we're in front of some countries for about 10 or 20 euros, we all belong to that amount below 500, 500 euros. And this is what is fundamentally important to stress that Croatia must move forward because Croatia must have a higher minimum wage than it has so far. To boast that something is given by the government and that something else gives is pure piar, because it gives no one but it is simply a market mechanism. If the government hadn't raised the minimum wage, it would have been compared to raising the average salary, it would have fallen somewhere below 35% in 2019. Therefore, it was very clear that by raising the average salary would be raised and the minimum wage would be raised. Why isn't she already defined at 50%? It's a question for the government, and it's likely that one day the minister will answer someone. What the Government's proposal does not provide, does not provide certainty that it knows exactly what will happen with the minimum salary each year, clearly that the government wants to collect political points and today the play was just pure pyr. Also, there is no dynamics of minimum wage growth, it is not a clear goal that the minimum wage will reach 50% of the average salary and what is seen to be right when we have warned that the compensation mechanisms that the government has introduced will not lead to an effect and that this will not lead to the economy better functioning under this minimum wage, and here is now the compensation measure that we have abolished, the government will abolish as ineffective, and we have told you this and when you have represented this previous minimum wage law, that the rest will be given to them under the table and this has proved to be true and you have now recognised it with this. What you have returned again, you have returned what has been the whole time to release social dialogue, so that in social dialogue employers and trade unions can lower the minimum wage by 5%. But that's just what one possibility is, and seeing as how it looks in practice in the previous law that allowed that possibility, there's very little company that could have done it. What you as a government need to do, which is cheap the state, cheap the wages, and then the minimum wage will be higher. And in order to cost the state, you need to reduce the entanglement that started under the HDZ government. 2700 people are all now in love, you've set up a State Inspectorate where you'll have another 200, 300 people fall in love, we'll see what happens to the agencies, and there won't be any movement, because the people who were in the agencies will just turn into ministries. Defacto don't line up what's most important, and that's to fuck the country up, you collect the state and you don't see what happens in a year or two or three. This year looks like the year of 2008, when everyone said we were wonderful, that we were great, that we were moving forward, that the state was going and then from once on, one former prime minister said what's happening now looks like the same thing, we're on a crust of bananas, and the only question is when we're going to slip, the government, but with the government together and all of us. This is good as long as the economic parameters are good, but when the economic parameters are good, then it should be ready for those times when the crisis comes. And the crisis is ahead of us, and the government is, instead of making it an anticipating and explicating the state, it's infatuating people, and it's something that's inadmissible to the citizens who chose you, because you just don't see what's going on in front of us, which is why you're still making the same mistake that you made in 2008, when you said that everything's okay, you're talking now, Sanader is talking to Plenkovic, then your colleague Schuker, now tells a colleague Maric, I'm afraid we're going to have the same, same scenario again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120145	Thank you very much. He had one replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120146	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Mrsic, you're right. Salaries, even minimally paid by employers, and should be guided primarily by this social dialogue, to see which sectors are able to monitor the growth of the cost of living in Croatia, and how to help them to pay in Croatia, because all workers working in Croatia expect a higher salary, just because of their own standard of living, but also because of their pensions, with such a minimum, with payments to a pension fund of around 1000, 1100 kuna, can simply expect to have pensions below the minimum, below 2000, 2500 kuna and can't live on it, and therefore leave Croatia, because they don't see their social security in the long term and therefore this reduction from 70,75000 people on minimum salary to 37,000 or 40,000. For these reasons, people here can't live with that salary, nor will they have tomorrow's pension to live on and have to relieve the economy so that growth and minimum wage and salary can be paid in Croatia. And they have to grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120147	Thank you. Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120148	It is true that what you said, without the agreement between the Syndicates and employers, things will not go well, and what is happening now is because Croatia has moved out, Slavonia has been emptied and there are no more workers, what was once said who wanted to work on the minimum, we have three waiting in line, it is gone and the government has been forced to raise the minimum to this level, I don't know why it didn't go to 50%, if it's agreed with employers that compensation measures, but I'm afraid those compensation measures are pure lie and paralysed because simply these compensative measures can only be horizontal, that means that they can be all, and they can't be linked to certain, individual segments, especially those that we know are low-accumulated and that have problems with minimum pay. Where the state could, which is to make regionalisation, have regional needs, support, and then that would be completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120149	Thank you. Next individual debate of the respected representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120150	Thank you very much. As colleagues said, I am sorry that it is not the minister here this morning, with correct remarks of the opposition he wanted to show that in Croatia the workers, that they will get a lot with this increase, before we said that any increase is welcome, should first be taken into account that daily rising prices of food, fuel, gasoline, energy, so that at this point there is no idea how much increase it is when compared to today's cost of life. The facts say the opposite. Currently we in Croatia and have no more workers or workers, we have 500, we have more municipalities, 568 seems to me the number, the municipality and local self-government, we have many Countys, numerous administration offices, and that is one huge problem. We currently have in some parts more employees in small municipalities than workers, we do not have entrepreneurs. Why don't we have an entrepreneur? Because the hill-mounted area, where I come from, is much harder to be an entrepreneur, with much less competitive, much more expensive product, energy, is longer winter, imposed as, marketing, simply, we still have entrepreneurs here in this area of Zagreb and a few cities we see, that even our largest, industrial branches such as shipbuilding, are reduced to the lowest level, so the question is whether or not we have workers? It's always a shame on the worker somehow. We have the law of, the bankruptcy law where basically the worker is like in the first order of charge, and basically very rarely charged, here's an example of the blue Dalmatian, an example of Dalmatia wine, an example of only from its ends I speak, always these people who created extra value do not charge. They charge everyone or most of them, and basically workers who wait nine years, their claims, very hard to collect, here's the most famous textile industry, like Kamensko, I said blue Dalmatian, but also many other companies. So when we look at mountain-mounted areas, or when we talk about assisted areas or underdeveloped areas, we don't have entrepreneurs. So, we don't have any right now, these people don't have opportunities, so, first of all, they're not going to have workers, because the workers of the people have gone from these parts, so his demand for workers is going to be a lot harder for him, and that's why he's going to trim you, and he's going to pay you more for this, the worker. When we see how much they are, what are the number of municipalities and cities, when we see that we don't have the strength and energy, that is, we don't have the good will to resist, to invest, not to favor certain groups of people, so we don't want to include micro solars. Here I will talk about micro solars only because workers could run, entrepreneurs could start production, and micro solars could be built on, each part built in the Republic of Croatia, our entrepreneurs. Why, for example, is that not an interest? Now imagine what we're doing in the heat subsidy 300 million kuna gives the state, local, regional self-government to invest that money annually, it's somewhere around 10,000 households would have, objects would have micro solarium. Now imagine how many people it is to install, to produce microsolar any part we can. But it's much more important for us to pay for wind power plants. This is how we basically poored our people, we give subsidies to the stranger we pay, the contractor pays, and the microsolares we simply don't want to build, and that would increase, so the number of employees, our families would be independent, I'm talking now about mountainous mountainous areas, it can be applied throughout the Republic of Croatia. The employer too singles out for the state, the simplest worker also issues through taxes and taxes, and mainly in less developed areas. So, at this point in time to talk about some good measures, I said at the beginning any increase in minimum wage is good, but now we no longer have a worker, we have no labour force, the workforce has moved away, and so in itself because of the difficult demand for workers, they will collect the labour price. But we don't have a working class anymore, I mean, I don't see that labor is by God and by man, these people deserve their wages. I repeat, all the laws were not at the heart of man. We don't want to have investments that will help our citizens. Here, we gave the amendments to numerous, we had government meetings in Split, in the islands, we had... We do not want to invest what could leave our mountainous mountainous mountainous area 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, and not to have empty villages, we literally have 2/3 of RH empty, and these investments, such as the solars that Most has given through the proposal, the legal proposal, but here, for months, it does not want to be accessed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat again, such projects increase the number of employees and every part of the solar system is seas, the sea panel is produced in the Republic of Croatia. However, we are much more interested in providing subsidies for wind power plants, which are made from a billion and a half kuna, a billion kuna supplier, means 2.5 billion kuna, we give to a foreign investor and that money is being withdrawn. The same thing is, the state has huge loads through, so where we have a monopoly, these are telecommunications, only in the Republic of Croatia, I'll repeat the habit, only in the Republic of teleoperators for their facilities sets up tactical pillars, not tribune building permits, they don't pay the right to serve local self-government, they're exhausted, so the budgets of local self-government and people, so both the owners of that land or those who run that land. We gave these amendments, too, they weren't accepted. So, simply, incompetence and monopoly of certain groups is being drawn up by huge money. Is this about the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia where example teleoperators don't invest that money in the Republic of Croatia, invest in other countries that profit, and the biggest profit of the teleoperator is in the Republic of Croatia. And that for double, means on average in Europe 20% profit or margin, and in the Republic of Croatia 40% profit. So the right of service, that's very important, so we have a monopoly, we have stakeholders that work that way. I look at my end, my Dalmatia was the end, the cattle end, no more, as my colleague said, no more shepherds, no more treasure, no less and less. So, we have to territorially enable people through various support, do I repeat, there's much more expensive water in the Dalmatian Zagora, much more expensive triba... The pumps, the pumps and the water supply, no matter what we're rich in water that the tribal would literally be in those parts of 0,00 kn, it's much more expensive down there, much bigger subsidies we have to pay down because of renewable energy sources, and we don't use the greatest potential, it's the sun. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's one basic thing. We had shipbuilding, we had people working on the team, who were co-operatives, and they failed, so, and those who gave it. We have Gorski Kotar forest, our workers who produced in sawmills in Gorski Kotar and in other parts of Slavonia, today they have to go to Italy, and our trunks are being driven, our material, our tree, they're processing it and they're making profits there, and our workers are going there. Which is why our sawmills couldn't produce extra value, and not in Italy, they're selling us ours, from our profit. That's how it is with the declaration exclusively of the economic belt, more fish caught by Italians in our waters, because we don't protect it, but our fishermen do. Our fisherman has to go outside if he's simply legally restricted, there's not enough brakes, nor as they have, there's these old ones, there's no fishing fleet like there's one smaller city in Italy, the whole of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we do not protect people in these areas, nor do we have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, strengthen a fisherman, strengthen a peasant, allow him to be in that area, and the entrepreneur remains very little in those areas. What we have, we have in Zagreb and the surrounding area and something in larger cities. Is it simple that their product is much more expensive in these areas, we simply have to have bigger benefits and easier for people in these areas so that they can pay those people to go to Zagreb, which is fortunately in Zagreb not to go to third countries. I was a few years ago, I said a few times in a few repetitions, recently in Munchen, four years ago there were 42-43000 Croats only in Munich, now it's 78000, we're talking about a city in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120151	Thank you very much. Before we move on to replicas, let's welcome to the school's gallery and students Dr. Franjo Tudjman from Knin... Especially since here's today's anniversary and the death of the late Dr. [[Applause]] Francis Tudjman. Now we'll move on to the replicas, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic first answered, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120152	Thank you, Vice President. I followed these colleagues who talked about the minimum pay they criticized so they could be 5,000 and I don't know anything bigger. So I admire this government and you're brave when you've managed to raise it to 3,000, I know half the entrepreneurs will rebel over it, and those who get out of the budget money, they don't know what it's like to give 3,000 plus giving to the state almost two more. Well, my lords, I get out of the budget money, I don't earn it, and I don't talk about the majority or the minority. It's something else entirely. Being an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur and paying wages and a minimumer is a very big problem, not a rise to 5.6.7,8.9 thousand as certain people actually have nothing to do. So, according to this government, I admire her, congratulating her on courage, is that one big leap in minimum pay, we hope Sandra will rise up, so of course it's not a big pay we can't talk about, but it's much better than she's been these past years. And I'm afraid certain entrepreneurs For the purposes of this Chapter, the [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They don't come into one problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120153	The answer, the esteemed Representative of Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120154	Comrade Misho, I would agree with you if it weren't easy for an entrepreneur, it just doesn't have the workforce anymore, again I'm saying it in undeveloped areas of mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas, but it's also a fact that it's not going to increase this government by the minimal, but by entrepreneurs. They must secure that money, but it is very, very difficult to do so in hill-mounted areas of entrepreneurs where it is much harder to do business than in Zagreb. As a result, certain contributions also made by employers, and after that workers are a great burden for a competitive product in these areas. There are absolutely no more literally entrepreneurs in these areas because they are empty areas. We must encourage what we have and down can be, so if in Slavonia is agriculture, of course, and other entrepreneurship, we have numerous zones. I have in Sinj, we have in Sinj a huge area in which 100 million kuna is invested, but we don't have a good path, I've given the amendment access route to the highway and certain investments to encourage it and to bring the investor, such as Hyundai, doesn't the government care about that part And the entrepreneurs will pay for this and they won't pay for the government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120155	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120156	Thank you, Vice President, in your debate, you pointed out that life in rural areas is far more expensive than in large cities with which I absolutely agree, you have, say, Zagreb in a building called a hangover alive of 5,000 inhabitants and now when compared to a smaller municipality, for example. The high I come from where 1,500 lives. Here 5,000 residents have to pay a municipal fee, meaning cleaning the street in front of the building, which is 200 m behind the building, which is 30 km high. Here's a 10-beam public lighting on High is 500. Well, that's exactly what the current government recognized, through a series of laws and tax reliefs from mountain-mounted and assisted areas, I think it's heading towards allowing our citizens living in rural areas just one quality life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120157	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120158	I agree that much higher costs are meant in undeveloped areas, smaller municipalities and much higher costs, only when you mention the maintenance of roads, is much more than living 5,000 people in one neighborhood, I think it's much more, less living in the country and livestock in the country and I'll stay there. But the problem is what entrepreneurship in these areas cannot be competitive, and it is proof that they remain empty areas. Because surely an entrepreneur would've opened his company in Sinj il in your municipality, or elsewhere, or in the island, I see that the professor from the island is near the Dalmatian, would've opened that company before, and worked there to make it convenient. However, it is not, we have to create a perspective that entrepreneurs are more suitable to open in undeveloped areas of the company, there are eases, if we do not have all will come to Zagreb, and these areas remain empty, and if they are empty areas 2/3 of Croatia it is not a state, a state without people It's not a state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120159	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120160	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the ministry, when we talk about minimum wage and when we talk about the increase in minimum wage almost unrealized sounds of discussion and praise that the minister gave himself and the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of the debate as if it were some monumental achievements, i.e. that these people who receive minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia will live better than they have ever lived, and we are talking about 3,000 kunas at the monthly level, we are talking about 100 kuna per day, so try to figure out how to live with a minimum wage at all. On the other hand, the question arises, some entrepreneurs appear, here in the Croatian Parliament, who talk about the government being brave, as if it will pay those salaries. Entrepreneurs will pay the wages and they're the ones who eventually, I hope they can hire our people to pay the salaries that are much higher than what they are, what this minimum wage is. As a result, there is no need to boast too much with that measure, there is no need to push anything particularly into the chest, and especially should not be boasted when the law does not make a decision at all. So we have here the passing of laws that abolish certain reliefs for entrepreneurs, and as so far, minimum wage will be passed by a regulation. So this is a defacto regulation that is accompanied by a pyr for this law that does not speak at all about how much and what, what are the conditions, what are the conditions of our people in Croatia today. Let's look at the minimum salaries in the surrounding countries, let's look at the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, 20, 30 km here from the Croatian Parliament, the minimum wage in the EU country in Slovenia with which we can compare over EUR 800. So not three, but nearly six thousand kuna. And that's what we need to receive here, and that's what we should try to show, that people are leaving Croatia because they simply don't have the terms and the ability to survive with what the government gives them as minimum wage and what it sets them as minimum wage and what employers pay as minimum wage. And when you look at sectors where the minimum wage is paid, it's not exactly true that there's no room for higher wages in certain sectors. Here's when we look at security guards, there's a line of salaries of minimum amounts and below averages at Croatia's level, and the profits are huge. So take a look at the little gain of houses, especially of these larger ones, which were very engaged and in protests against Milanovic's government, their owners, see which 10 million kn at the annual level gets those gardens, and people get the salaries of 3.5 4 thousand kn, or almost minimum salaries in the Republic. So it needs to be realistic and it needs to be estimated how much Croatia can bear at this time and the Croatian economy as a minimum wage and what we propose from the SPD Club is that this amount is 4000 kn. We think that at this point, this is what Croatia should as a minimum guarantee its citizens. Again not by heart, not by finger, because when we look at the countries we compare with, it's less than Slovenia, it's here somewhere like Greece and Portugal. And you won't tell me that the Greek economy is more ready and it is possible, it is possible to bear that cost of minimum wage without being able to do so in Croatia. So every time we look from this visor we need to look at the worker, we need to look at the man who lives off that money, we need to understand that with these 3,000 kn nothing quality in Croatia is achieved for the workers, this step should be more significant. It is necessary to do so that people can really survive for a month, because when you look at a four-member family, if you have 2 minimum salaries, it is not even 70-75% of the basic costs that this family has or can have and it looks from the perspective of these workers, not that it is not a decent life, but it is not a life at all. It's a struggle every day, to survive by the end of the month, and to fight that your children have the most basic needs, which every child should have today in the Republic of Croatia. On that side, I am unhappy with this proposal, the government regulation and all those who go, I am satisfied that the pay is minimally increased, held back at this point I will be, which I think can be done more, because it has to be guaranteed by me and by the minimum wage law, and it should be written so accurately in the law, and that amount should be written here, which I said earlier, is to be more precisely, a little more than 500 euros or, 4000 kn what really in the Republic of Croatia when we combine and the prices that are in neighbouring countries, today the minister was saying some unbulful information, about how much his mentor in England paid the house, so who cares. Who cares if his mentor had a house worth half a million euros or not in London somewhere? It's not living, so we're not talking about London, about England, we're not talking about New York and Manhattan, we're talking about Vukovar, we're talking about Slavonski Brod, we're talking about Virovitica, we're talking about Varazdin, we're talking about Bjelovar, we're talking about all the cities where our people live hard, where it's hard to find a job, and where 3000 kn isn't enough for any, not dignity, but any life. And on that side, it would be good if our minister stayed away from the incomparable things, because if we were compared, God gave us that we could compare with some other countries, then our ministers would probably not be in conflict of interest, we would not be celebrating Martina Dalic as heroin in the circle of government, and we would also get complaints from the Commission for conflict of interest. Many of these things would be very different in Croatia than they are right now. And that is why, as long as we don't have that level, I would say democracy, justice in Croatia, where people today on the day we talk about human rights, we mark that day, when our people feel they're not all the same under the law, and not all of them, we see, unfortunately, the truth when the payroll comes. And once again I will tell you, shame, here I am once again telling the secretary of state, that it is done by the people of the ministry, that the company owned by the Republic of Croatia does not pay the salaries of 4 months in the centre of Zagreb. to your people. Here I'll tell you what company Rizzo transmitters d.d. The company in the city center, so much of your state cares about your employees, that in its company, owned by 55% of the state, in the center of Zagreb, we don't say that it's somewhere where nobody sees it, people don't get paid, and they come to work and work 4 months. As much as the government cares. I have already said this publicly, I find it odd that there are no certain reactions and competent services, to examine what it is, but this is a situation in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia operates and in which those who care about state property, and the property of that company is state property, does not care at all. And so, in order for people to believe at all, that the government wants something concrete for workers and for those who are hard at work, to do, when in a situation where the owner is unable to make an effort, that the wages work there, or that they go into some normal procedure. But what's probably the point there is that, right now, there were 150 employees left, 250 of them, probably the company will, which is state-owned, once again I say, to the extent that it's offensive, that there are no more workers or anyone else, and the next day, that someone valuable real estate buys... This is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia treats its property and workers and, of course, no one believes in this special, sincere intention if we really want to help people, I call you right here, and this applies to employees both in trade and in property protection, meaning in security services, these people and in the textile industry, these people are generally underpaid, these people are usually with small salaries, I said, security guards have more room to pay people more, and that we want to help these people, we would raise the minimum wage to 4,000 kuna, and that would cost the law and not to wait from the government, from first to the first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120161	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120162	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I saw from your presentation that there's only one thing to lift, and he doesn't know how. We have always been able to tend and we simply shouldn't have, and today we see the names of Marić, Plenkovic, should be agreed, should be thrown down, and for the first time we had a surplus in the country in 28 years. I know that in your government there were also capable ministers, here, I will commend both Lalovac and Greece, wonderful people who have done their jobs well. And in this government we have extremely capable people doing a good job, which we all expensively support to give these same people to next year, and if we didn't have an oil signature and everything else, we could raise everyone's minimum wages even more than we have to pay for someone's failures. That's the question we can talk about. I as an entrepreneur otherwise entrepreneurs, we want the state to move forward and develop. If we're going to obstruct everything that's good, then we're going to get to this point that we're going to keep talking this wrong, this is wrong, this should be removed just so I can sit down, and actually what I could do is, the big question is, I think this government is still doing its good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120163	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120164	Thank you very much. I must admit that I am and probably a large majority of our viewers now who are following this, confused with what you said because you said where we'll pay bigger wages and then you've made a point that there was no activation of the Oil Guarantee, then we could do it, says counterpart Misic. According to counterpart Misic, if it wasn't for the activation of the Uljanics and the guarantees, we could pay higher minimum wages and then call for entrepreneurs in the second sentence. So it doesn't pay the state minimum wage, it has nothing to do with the surplus or the guarantees or anything else, it has to do with it... to regulate the market so...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Wait a minute, please, let's not get off the bench.]] There he is. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Rainer, I'm asking you first time to stop me. [[Please, let's not get off the bench, please.]] So colleague Misic, the prominent entrepreneur who made Richard Branson and they're here somewhere, career-like, explains to me what I'm supposed to say, what I shouldn't. [[Please, we've stopped time, just go ahead, go ahead.]] I just repeated my colleague, Micic, what you said in your presentation. You mentioned guarantees and linked it to a minimum wage, it had absolutely nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120165	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goddess Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, we can all agree on the fact that 3000 kuna is not enough for a decent life in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is certainly more than 2750 kuna as far as it has been now if we take another 400 kuna supplement and it is not much again, but it is more than it was. 4000 kuna, I am absolutely interested, however, in whether you have consulted with our entrepreneurs who work in the wood industry, who operate, the textile industry, the leather industry, who do broken jobs, whether they can handle it or will have to fire the workers because I really agree and the fact is that 3000 is very little. There's something more to this, but is 4,000 what they could handle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120167	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120168	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad you're getting along, and I've talked to a lot of people, and I've analyzed certain sectors. Some might have some problems, but the question is how do we want the industry in Croatia, whether we want the industry cutting down troops or whether we want an industry that has more added value. So as we just saw in the discussion that some people, even as our Croatian Trump, Mr. Ivica Misic, are about that relationship, meaning entrepreneurial and political, the Croatian Trump explained here that the guarantees are connected, the payments of Oilers with salaries, it is clear that restructuring of the economy, industry should take some time to bring these industries in line but if we don't go more ambitious, it probably won't happen at all in some cases. That's why I invite you to support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120169	Thank you. The Honorable Representative has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120170	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Maras, all the money throws are just as important. 238, sorry. [[/Intruder Reiner: What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?]] Throwing in a well 4 billion-fail money, that's where entrepreneurs and the whole state could be helped and stimulated in some way, and that's why I'm saying it. And we've thrown so much into irrelevant things money and we don't have any essentials, we wouldn't have 300 malts of parafiscal charge to pay for it. They'll catch you in any way. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Mišić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120171	Comrade Misic, you've exceeded the time and talked about the things here, and I have to give a warning, please. Comrade Stazic, you've picked up the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120172	Article 33, obligations, duties of President-in-Office of the Parliament. It's nice that you've warned your fellow Mišić because he's equatingly breaking the Rules of Procedure and he's doing it on purpose and he deserves a warning and you should've interrupted him, not letting him break the Rules of Procedure so flagrantly and that he's actually doing all of us to the fools that we're doing. Please, second time interrupt the resolution counsel you see wanting to replicate under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120173	Comrade Stazić, I cannot know what someone wants to say and predict, today on the Committee on the Constitution we were just saying that it can't be the chairman of Milan and others, let me still run the session and I really can't predict what anyone will say. But if you think I have to be stricter, I'll be stricter, you've been telling me right on your side that I'm too strict. If you think I have to be stricter, I'll be stricter, but don't, then don't be a rebel again. All right, we're going to the next line, and that's the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Maras, that when it comes to minimum wage we remember even a few years ago that a large number of entrepreneurs couldn't even pay their salaries and then there were different kinds of inspections where a large number of Croatian workers couldn't get paid and even then they cried out to get that minimum wage. So surely one part of the economic activity refers to when there were crises, when there were those ten years of crisis, we now have several years of economic growth and my question is something similar to a colleague of the Mlakar, related to the restructuring of entrepreneurs how long some entrepreneurs can do business if their entire economy is based on minimum wage. So we simply have to put that part open if 10 years or 15 keep 80% of their employees on minimum wage all the time is the question of restructuring and such entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120175	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120176	Thank you very much. I mean, the way I see it, there are two kinds of guys, and they're the ones who have minimum wages but they don't have minimum earnings, they're the ones I mentioned earlier that were protesting in front of the D.A.'s office. So that's where you have security services and companies that have a salary of 3.5, 4 thousand kunas but that's huge, it's measured in tens of millions of kunas. And on the other hand, you have a wood industry that is also oriented in this way and with, of course, there are entrepreneurs and I also agree that the state should see and every Ministry of Economy should see what kind of industry we want. If the industry is of high value added, then there will be no minimum wage, or small wages. If we are satisfied with this very concept that we will keep on the minimum salary of people and that it will be one of the main assets of our economy priced, then it is not good for Croatia and it should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120177	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, where's the problem here, actually? The state determines only the limit and minimum wage, the state gives nothing at the start when it comes to minimum wage. However, the state must monitor that minimum wage line with certain measures to support entrepreneurs who are at the border so that they can pay such wages, increased wages. And that's what the state did. And the worst part is, after a year, the state is giving up on it, giving up on those incentives. Eliminates 50% reduction of the base for the calculation of the contribution. And that's what I find incomprehensible and unacceptable because if we want to continue to increase that minimum wage line because what we in the SDP are up for, then there must be an countermeasure for entrepreneurs who define a relief in that amount of close size.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120179	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120180	Thank you very much. You just said one thing that's crucial when we're talking about this law. Well, I'm surprised at some MPs who admire the government, I mean it's amazing to me that there's this level, that there's this level of misunderstanding that you admire as the government is brave, she's done something. In this particular law, the government has done nothing but set up a regulatory framework that is not good enough for us in the SDP. So this regulatory framework would be much better if the government had put 4 thousand kunas into the law. And on the other hand, this relief that you mentioned earlier even expanded. It means that we disburse entrepreneurs from the many parafiscal burdens they have that might allow them to pay higher wages and then Croatian... I was right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you could congratulate the government on the courage, this is not the courage at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120181	The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120182	You were surprised at three things in your speech. First, there is an institution in the centre of Zagreb, a state-owned company that has not paid its salaries for 4 months. Others, if there had been no inspection, inspection, no inspection services that would have determined and corrected it. And third, one of the agents admires the government. Look, I'm surprised you're surprised. First, when the state-run firm doesn't pay the state's salary completely normal, so it's a pattern of their behavior, it's waiting for the company to fail to privatise it so someone can earn real estate. Second, why are you surprised there's no inspection? So they started a state inspectorate so they wouldn't control it at all in the future because they'd have it under... And third, don't be surprised that fellow Misic admires the government what else can be expected of him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120183	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120184	Thank you very much. I will here, as far as this part is concerned and not control and scandalous situation in the RIZ transmitters tell me that I am surprised, the inspection is less surprising, there you are right, there is a store where it has come together in one place, some MPs, some of the representatives have recognized that it is a benefit for our citizens, I think that exactly the opposite, it is not good, it is creating a mastodon that is likely to be given to the president of the Zagreb HDZ, Mr Mikulić, in order to be politically scraped, in the end there will be absolutely nothing done on this issue, but what I am surprised that the management of the RIZ RIZ REFERs fail to communicate with its owner, the Government of the Republic, how to find a solution for these people. This shows the absolute concern of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia directly for the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120185	Thank you. Next individual debate of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120186	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. As for what I said on behalf of the club of representatives, we can conclude that HDZ has just destroyed all the beauty of the Republic of Croatia, destroyed the dreams of young people and the dignity of the elderly. You have all your measures, including today's destruction of the Republic of Croatia as the worst thieves. You agreed to be obedient to the Brussels dictatorship, decorated in the Pharaoh Plenkovic, who reduced HS to the office, which unnecessarily fulfils the wishes of foreign centres of power. You ignore not only every law the opposition offers, not just every amendment, not just any document, but a more harmless democratic debate. Although we, out of opposition, represent a far greater percentage of citizens than you who form a parliamentary majority. Minister Pavic doesn't care what we're saying here, and not the representatives of your majority, they just come here to vote by a jokebachter sent by Mr. Borg, and you try to silence the opposition with the most brutal measures, such as the ban on investigative commissions, now you want to ban and hurt the Rules of Procedure, you're throwing MPs out of the Parliament, you're threatening them with guard, you're insulting them at the most primitive level, you're telling the MPs that they're pans, they're fools, they're shepherds, so some guy who spends 90.000,00 kn for travel for no purpose, who doesn't say anything in the Assembly, who's playing in the sand, while MPs are defending their bodies, today they're called "flies," and I have to tell him that the boat is a far more honorable interest and far more than much more than the one who's there at the moment. It's your level of state leadership, it's the function of this HS, it's respect for institutions and the level of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about the subject, don't get in my word, you're always making trouble, Vice President of the Parliament, and stop telling me no more. [[/Agreement: Let's talk about the minimum wage.]] Don't shut me up, there's a head on top of you, you and your HDZ, don't shut me up, man. [[I don't shut you up at all, I'd just like you to talk about the subject, especially/]] I speak for the people, [[You're a little upset.]] I don't care what you have to say, stop interrupting me. [[Intruder: Don't get upset and yell]] You keep coming for this pay phone, you're making trouble, you're uncomfortable, you're rude, you're being rude, and you and your MPs, who you call a shepherd's representative, [[Intruder: Just a colleague of the Stazic told me that we must stick to the topic]] Tell your representative not to call the representatives of the shepherds. [[Intruder: Calm down, pal Bunjac]] On the top of your head, you've had enough of this people. I'm calm, but you're a bully. [[Intruder: Calm down, you don't have to yell]] Yeah, stop it, you don't have the right to interrupt me while I'm talking. [[/Intruder: You wouldn't say quite the opposite of this.]] You don't, you won't shut us up anymore. [[Intruder: I do, you need to talk about the subject]] Enough of this, you won't be silenced by Croatian MPs, I'm talking about the subject. 300 000 Croats have left the country and another 300,000 will leave in the next 5 years, experts, our best sons and daughters, great young educated people, because no one wants to work for you for your 3.000,00 kn, go out the streets, look around Zagreb how many waiters are wanted, how many merchants are offered to pay for 4-50.00 kn, no one wants to work for it. Stop saying that people live a dignified life in this country. You should, starting with the Vice-President of the Parliament through all MPs of the ruling majority, tie the chain to this bench, and you should sit there 24 hours a day, so long as you don't finally give the people and citizens a real decent life, honest wages, justice, independence of the judiciary, minimum wage of at least EUR 500,00, an average salary of EUR 1,000,00, which you offer us 49,00 kn to pensioners, you sell us nuts of 100,00 kn, bananas of 12,00 kn, import them at EUR 1,00, EUR 0,50 each, how much the fuel costs are, how much the drugs are, export the logs for some minimum means, while people have no heat. You're introducing a cut, it's 18% in Zagreb, what's it for? To buy representatives of the sold soul who enter the Parliament on one list, then move on to another list. You allow executions and blockades, you harass people with HRT fees, extra insurance, I don't know what, every day they call me, they cry, they whine, I'm told by the worker "3. In May" three days ago, he asks me, "Shall I kill myself today or tomorrow?" He can't support his children. He feels the worst father on the globe. He feels miserable, useless. Why don't you put the Life Wall Act on minimum pension in the process? He's been in the process for a year. We're proposing a pension of three thousand, 200 kuna minimum, and you're proposing a salary of three thousand kuna. There's money. For what? For your lunches, for the six drivers of Minister Tolusic. For that you have money that then breaks into investigations, ends up in prison, godfathers, I don't know who you have. 30 billion kuna ends up in a gray economy. The same goes for corruption. The same amount of banks are taken out of this country. We're paying an illegal debt. For what? To drive the citizens out of the country and turn Croatia into a colony. Gentlemen, remember one more time. The people don't trust you anymore. He doesn't trust this government, he doesn't trust this Parliament, he doesn't trust the institutions, he doesn't trust Minister Pavic, he doesn't trust Mr Reiner or Secretary of State Majda Buric. It's a reality for you, and you just keep coming here and boasting about the successes that don't exist, until you've been swept away by the people once so you won't know where my dear ones are going anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120187	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120188	Thank you very much. In this little more emotional speech, you said a lot of things, and obviously you were struck by this injustice which is manifested here in the Croatian Parliament through the conduct of the sessions, etc., etc. You've said a lot of things, and what bothers me especially is when we talk about minimum wage, why isn't the government more ambitious? Well, probably because a lot of people in the public sector, in the country, work for these minimum salaries, and also those minimum salaries or small salaries they have, they don't get paid for what they do. Well, isn't it a shame that in Croatia, people work overtime and I can't get that money that they did fairly well once working with us here from morning till tomorrow. Yeah, this is where the people who work with us, so it's a shame just like that. Pay these people wages, give them the money they have earned fairly, listening many times and inappropriate debates in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120189	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120190	Thank you very much, Reverend Maras. Indeed, man must wonder what kind of society he lives in when someone must work for a minimum of 3 thousand kuna, and 75% of Croatian citizens work for less than 5,000 kuna. And to watch here people who decide their fate driving the Audius, who drive the Mercedes, who fly to the most expensive destinations, drive some fashion, perform in the media, I don't know, today she chose this, yesterday she chose that. So we simply see that this elite has completely alienated itself from its people and is no longer interested in their real concerns. And that's the basic message that those who have salted our minds would have to understand that they would live better in Croatia since 1.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120191	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120192	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, here, and I have to agree with you for protesting today, because it's really not appropriate to interrupt us and keep telling us that we're not in the dark as if we're stupid. But I'd like to rephrase that to you, you mentioned the Borg, the main Borg, you thought perhaps Mr. Plenkovic. I like to watch these science fiction films and there really is one people in them who have a collective consciousness that has a top-notch Borg and how he imagines it, and everybody else thinks it is. Now that we're looking at it a little bit better, we can pull the parallel and on the HDZ it's the same thing. The HDZ chief and everyone else down there thinks, and that confirms that no one from HDZ has ever squeezed anything else on Friday but what everyone had to squeeze, no matter what laws it was. The righteous and the unrighteous have been brought in as the government has sent. And that's why we're doing it in this country when everything has to be the way someone imagined it because someone from some power center in Europe told him to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120193	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120194	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Tell me what this Assembly is all about, which is what the institution of the Parliament is all about. The entire Rules of Procedure were changed solely because Mr. Borg refused to listen to the breaks. He doesn't want to hear what the MPs say. He doesn't care about 2%, and now he's asking for more damage to the Rules of Procedure. He's asking that all commissions be banned. He's threatening the guards here. Watch out, the guards are being called to the MPs. Call NATO Alliance, F16 planes, immediately lock us up as Alexander Karadjordjevic... as long as the election takes place. What are you waiting for? It's your democracy, gentlemen of the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120195	Next is the replica of the respected representative Mark Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120196	Dear comrade Bunjac, you spoke of injustice in society. But here's what I just learned one good news, that it's worth fighting together that this pressure of parents is that. The teacher and professor with their testimony worked and that Mr. Francis would not be fired. This means that institutions and bureaucracy need to be fought. So the public pressure was high. There was a protest. We in the Parliament talked about it the same way. So the fight is not in vain to... say the fight is in vain. The fight is not in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120197	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120198	The fight is not in vain, and HDZ would say, the Borg is not in vain. It needs to be done, it needs to be resisted. We oppose any violence, any reckless action, but when violence goes beyond any measure by the ruling when the very essence of democracy is choked, and that is the right to freedom of speech. When he physically removes his representatives from this hall, when he calls them the ugliest names, such as he would not be ashamed of a coachman in a Middle Ages movie, then he really needs a resistance within democracy but a resistance that surpasses only this hall. And it will be, but for that will be the responsibility of those who created such an atmosphere... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120199	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic, forgive Vlahe Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120200	The Honorable Chairman, staff of the Ministry, I will try and talk to you at another frequency, I will try to make things concrete. So while we're talking about the scale of things, the minimum wage that I'm telling you is completely missed because we need to pursue a system where the minimum wage won't be determined. This is the direction of the development of a society in which I believe our problems will be solved. But in that environment, we pass under the radar, one exceptional problem, chairing, I beg you, I think that in the procedure of passing this law, there are both contradictions with our rules and with the Act of Impact Assessment. So e-consultation for the previous impact assessment pattern lasted from 4.10 to 18.10 means 14 days, it should have lasted 30 days. Reports have not been published on citizens' comments, in general, without any order and purpose, beyond all procedures, without impact analysis, also publish on e-consultation the final draft of the law. E-consultation lasted from 23-29.11. Right, 6 days. While you are careful, the Legislative Office has already warned you several times that it must be minimum 30 days, minimum 30 days. So a total of 61 comments were made by citizens and entrepreneurs and yet there is no report of it, and that is your obligation, it must be. So you can't choose whether or not you want to, please let's respect the procedure. So it's official according to the procedure adopted by this government, the e-consumption isn't over at all, is it? Because no comments have been made. So by the decision of this government, the e-consultation is not complete, because the procedure is not satisfied, it is not because the report has not been carried out. Please don't do this. So even though it's clear in the laws being made, that this law will have an impact on the economy and entrepreneurship, we don't have a full impact assessment, which is contrary to the Impact Assessment Act and it doesn't have an SME test according to it, I hope you know that, from which it would be clear these concrete effects of the law. You must deliver these concrete effects, you are required to do so. The law has no condition at all to go by any procedure, because you haven't satisfied this before, let alone go by emergency procedure. I repeat this law has no conditions to be passed by emergency procedure, and now I'm going to say why, because it's contrary to the article. 17. The Impact Assessment Act, which states, means that it can go according to emergency procedures, if it is adopted to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the urgent removal of the threat of damage or the protection of particular economic or social interest. For... The reason was given, so with detailed reference to the reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think we can put this law in that context. Then this same law is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament, Art. 204 says extremely I will repeat, exceptionally, the law can be passed by emergency procedure when particularly justified reasons require it. Please, this law, first and second reading, you can't and you don't have a basis in this context, you can politicize, you can outvote, but it's manipulation, it's just not true. So the conditions for emergency procedures aren't met. The reason that it is listed, the reform, is whether, this cannot be a condition for the adoption of an emergency procedure, because we should have been well-analyzed by the effects of this law, so from that analysis should be a result of reform means a reverse process. We play with democracy, we play procedure. The public well-being is indeed devastated during privatisation. The only thing left, but literally only, colleagues, please, an extremely important thing, please all together, I stress, an extremely important thing, the only thing left, where the interests of the people are incorporated, and the right of the people is the procedure that everyone in this country must stick to, by the Prime Minister and the Parliament. We don't have the right to make laws like this. We need to know that even 10% of the laws that have been passed in this House of High have not been made an impact assessment. Let's stop that. I will seek the protection of democracy, democratic processes beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, because I am already warning a few exhibitions of this problem, as if nothing is happening. Absolutely like nothing's going on. You all have to stick to it. So stop, please chairing this, check what I say, we'll deliver it in writing within 24 hours as they order the procedure, one act in this context that I present, and I ask you to withdraw the law because you have no right at this time to bring it in by emergency procedure, by no means whatsoever, let alone an emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120201	Thank you, colleague Orepić, I just have to draw attention to you that it's been voted here on an emergency procedure and that it's accepted to go by emergency procedure, so no matter what we think about it now, Because this, but I'm saying it's been voted on, it's been voted on, and I think if we went back to all the things that were voted on here, I don't know where that would lead us. ... [[Intruder Vlaho Orepić: Not satisfied procedure, please, formal]] I'm not getting into the measure of things right now... [[Intruder: the speaker doesn't understand.]] I know, I know, but I'm telling you formally, it's formally... [[Intruder: the speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been formally put on the agenda and it has been accepted to go by emergency voting procedure here in the Assembly, therefore, there is, there is not much... [[Intruder: the speaker doesn't understand.]] the possibilities of this action. [[Intruder: the speaker doesn't understand.]] But we do have one replica of your exposure, the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120202	Dear Mr. Orepic, you've said smart things, but I've been told by people that HTV 4 is not transferring this session anymore, that your speech of citizens could not hear, and that my colleague Branimir Bunjac, in half, was interrupted and that then, the news was inserted. What's going on is that the news was supposed to be at 2:00, but they were released earlier, I'm asking, so people say, now I'm asking if it's possible that it happened, is it possible now that instead of live this debate on HRT, they're replaying Studio 4? Here's another example. 13:30 Studio 4, 14:00 News, 14:10 Studio 4, 14:30 News, 14:35 Studio 4, at 15:00 News, at 15:10 Studio 4, at 15:25 news. They're actually recycling, they're spinning the same story, and what we're talking about, this on HTV 4 can't be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120203	Dear Representative Vlaho Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120204	... You're right. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] One question, and from that question, will be all the nonsense of this procedure. Why did you even go to two e-consultations and a report in accordance with the regular procedure when you put the law in an emergency procedure? Those who know how the procedure goes, understand what I'm talking about. You have no right, please, there is no, even voting at this point in the matter is this, manipulation with the acts that we have brought, this high house brought, we have to respect the procedure, I stress, because if we start cheating, then we cheat democracy and cheat on the interest of the people. Please, it's no shame to learn if you don't know, but if you consciously violate the procedure then there is manipulation and that outside institutional policy dominates the institutional one, which is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120205	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120206	Thank you, Vice President. Indeed, today is a miserable life for workers in Croatia. Not only those who live on the minimal but also those who receive the average salary, because the average Croatian salary is absolutely insufficient for an even decent life. The directors have increased at least 100% in the last two years, the salaries are not. People don't know how to make ends meet, since they don't know, they're leaving Croatia. They're leaving, 350,000 of them are gone, and by some estimates, another 500,000 will be gone in the next five years. What's he doing here? What are they doing here? Tesla left Croatia when he was only 19 years old, which genius, which genius. Even immigrants will not remain here in Croatia, those who flee to war, who have fled from hunger, from misery, from unimaginable poverty, from life under tents in camps. They get here, but they won't stay here. In this Plenkovic Croatia will not, they will go on. So, not even you. Not only the Croats who leave here, but the ones who come, they don't think to stay in Croatia. Who's gonna stay here? The old men, the defenders and the HDZ, they're fine here. They're fine here, there's nothing wrong with them, they're falling in love, so here's proof of that and Article 7 of this Law. See Article 7, for the monitoring and analysis of the minimum wage movement, the minister will establish an expert commission. A thread says what number of members, how many commissions, and what will that commission do? It will monitor and analyse the movements of minimum pensions, while a minimum pension is determined by the Government by its Regulation. That's two articles earlier. Well, why is there an office, a statistical office? So why are there officers at the Ministry? You don't have enough state secretary officers to follow up on the minimum wage movements, like the minimum wage changes six times a day, so that should be followed? Second, the Minister shall prescribe the composition of the commission referred to in paragraph 1, of this Law, his duties, his work, and the amount of compensation to his members. So the commission won't work for the bad guy? A commission is being established to catch more of those HDZs who have not been able to be in love so far. What is it, I think, that has now affected this miserable position of workers in Croatia? Was he always like that? Well, I remember, I remember, for example, an age before the collapse of socialism. In Croatia they worked shipyards all. Export ships were being built. Here are just a few companies: Prvomajska, Unity, Šavrić, NIK, Dioki, Polet, TOZ, Uljara, Go, RIZ mentioned earlier, Nada Dimić, Gredelj. All of this was employed only in Zagreb in this industry by 140,000 people. It's barely 30,000 today. Yes, when socialism collapsed and capitalism introduced, workers thought they would be those capitalists, that they would benefit from it. So they didn't count on HDZ to rob them twice, they didn't count on it. They used to own these companies. They decided through working advice. The director could not make the decision strategically to sell a part of the company, or real estate. Well, that's what the labor council decided. All of it, they gave up their property because they believed, they believed in the promise to wait for them better tomorrow, and here's what welcomed them. Here's what welcomed them, misery, poverty, emigration. For the last time, it was moving out of Croatia in the early 20th century, but because of the peronospora. It could be said that HDZ is a peronospor of our day. In France, unrest, and the minimum wage in France is a thousand 498 euros, and you now promise 3 thousand kuna in Croatia, that is 406 euros. A thousand euros less. Only Romania, Lithuania and Bulgaria are behind us. Okay, France is a free country, it has a tradition of freedom, it has a French Revolution in 1789. She had a Parisian commune in 1871, the first successful socialist revolution then. He's wearing yellow vests today. 41 requests have been made. Among other things, a minimum salary of 300 euros net, a thousand 300 euros net. Minimum pension of a thousand 200 euros net, limit work contracts to a certain time. So, to prevent, to limit the conclusion of a contract to a certain time. This is what counterpart Mrsic proposed in his law, so it cost him membership in the SDP. Then increase the disability. The ban on selling state property, and our Secretary of State's property is constantly boasting that he sold this, so he sold it. A ban on selling state property because it's the property of all Frenchmen. Then keep an eye out for 29 out of 41 places to end an increase in excise duty on fuel. What was actually just a cause, but 41 demands. Okay, the Croats aren't French. They don't even have such freedom traditions, they don't even have that courage to go out on the streets when the government offers them such miserable laws of 3,000 kuna minimum wages, and not at their own expense, but at the expense of employers who already complain that they're overloaded, and so on, they're constantly whineing that they can't go on like this, that if they continue to fire workers, they're going to shut down the plants, because the tax presses are too big. I'm not Misic, I don't fix machines, so I don't know what entrepreneurship is like because he keeps saying it's really hard for him. But that's why he praises this government, I guess, because it's hard for him to do entrepreneurship, and this government has created him these conditions to be difficult for him, so man is logical when he can do that. He could come to books, textbooks from logic to learn on his example. You didn't offer anything. For these poor workers, for these poor people in Croatia who flee from you have offered nothing in this law. You won't solve anything. Employers will increase the force of the law and minimum wages if they can, and if they do not, they will fire some workers, so they will allocate their costs because otherwise they cannot. I can't do it any other way. We should do something more systematic. You should make a copernicus turn. I think we should cut down on the IRS. Entrepreneurship should be freed, thus improving the position of workers if it can still be improved under conditions of capitalism because we see richer countries than Croatia, such as France. This cannot resolve the satisfaction of its people or fail to resolve it because the greed of those who have a means of production is greater than their concerns and responsibilities for the position of workers. The Croatian government is absolutely no exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120207	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120208	Thank you, Vice President. Here we are today, and that's how it always gets a little bit out of the metrics, so let's go wide. I'll just try to get back to basics. So this minimum wage law he does not prescribe de facto minimum wage, but the frameworks and methods of their adoption. We know that the government has passed the Regulation, that it is at the level of three thousand kuna net, three thousand 750 kuna gross. Here, which is predicted to be just as indicative that they must always be in the current year until 31. For the following year, the Commission shall adopt such a regulation at the level of different analyses. I think that these analyses can and should only go in one direction, which is the threshold of sustainability, and it is here today actually a topic of some light motif of all our debates, what is the amount that the state or our entrepreneurs, employers, could bear? Is that 3,000,00 kn net, 3.300,00 kn, 3.600,00 kn or 4,000,00 kn? That's actually the point and that's what no one has elaborated here, no one here has put one single argument from any indexation, sub-prices, household members, household members, or number of members, inflation... No one here has told me today, and even the promoter, has said why it is 3.000,00 kn, why it is not 3.300,00 kn and why it is not 2.800,00 kn except a healthy logic that says that the price on the labour market is the result of the offer and demand for workers and the product or service resulting from that work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, most of all, talk about some wood industry, textile industry, leather industry, and we have a service industry, and we like to boast that we are based on it, especially as a tourist country. So I'm asking you, what about the service industry of the most basic professions, like cleaning? And today we have systems where in public procurement prices are achieved that are below the minimum wage and that's by state institutions and that's fine, the lowest price again. So there's an absolutely wide range of what means minimum wage, it doesn't mean and most often it's never the minimum, which is actually enough and we're all aware of that. Going into bid, I mentioned it earlier, and the state will make up for it, it's actually state interventionism, and that's where we certainly didn't choose to be, to have a planned economy, to have a certain salary where your country guarantees how much you have to have for a certain part. Some may have been better once before, I'm sorry, I hope those are rare exceptions, but generally I'd have to think about now and what's going to happen tomorrow. The labour price must be closely linked and we must work on economic criteria, on increasing purchasing power, on the economy, on the competitiveness of our products. There should be investment, that our products are more competitive, but not necessarily the price, because it is the first trap we enter, but with quality, but it should be clearly and loudly promoted, presented, explained, and that country must be included, there is a place where the state should invest most of its resources, and not say someone has to have a salary of 5.00 kn, is 300 000 people, 200 000 immediately lose jobs if we get nothing, but even more social cases. We need to ensure that if these people get a salary of 5.00 kn that this employer can and earn that 5.00 kn so that someone can buy a service or a product that they will make for that 5.00 kn. And then we go back to the common man who comes in miserable with those 3.000,00 kn and looks at two products, not to say what brands, and always looks at the cheaper one to use each kuna, to read 17 catalogues, and to go to 5 stores to buy 10 products just to save 50,00 kn, as he says, you have to buy what we said should be 5.00 kn, so you can't. It's like he wouldn't buy more quality if he could and then we're talking about economics, impact, generally the purchasing power of the labour market. Tax discharge more, I think it's impossible, unless we say that those who have minimum wage don't have to pay health care, and have a service like someone else, then we're doing constitutional inequality among people again or they don't have to pay pension contributions. It's the only tax they pay, the only tax they don't have. So no tax changes that were proposed would mean anything to anyone who has $3.000,00 or £4,000.00. Unfortunately, no, we've already done that, thank God, but that doesn't mean we should stop. It is clear that the state should always have a social criterion, we, we are liberals, I am a liberal, but not in the sense that we should let go of all the markets because we know that neither extreme is good, nor too much state interventionism, nor too liberal, so let go of all the markets, so you will only regulate yourself if we know how far it leads. That's why there should be strong rules of play, frameworks and minima that we are now discussing here. I don't think there's anyone here to understand who wouldn't want us to have a minimum net salary of EUR 1,000,00, I don't know anyone here can tell me that's not good. Of course it's absolutely acceptable, but how, that's the question I haven't been able to hear today. Of course, every shift is welcome and this will certainly have some impact, but I already see our employers and employers thinking about how to keep their worker because people are leaving, has every right to leave, if they want 500.00 EUR to have more in their pocket at the end of the month to stay with them, so thank God they're leaving. So how are we gonna stop them, unless we give them conditions to do it here too. So if it's EUR 200,00 more, then I don't think they'd exactly be complaining so much that they're leaving, everyone's doing their math without talking about pensions where after six years they'll have the right to pay off somewhere further west, and then they're taking that into account, especially before the end of the week, all people look and they do. We cannot tell them how they know best, nor have equal rules for everything and what is worth to one another. This, and especially the non-taxable part of the salary of 7.500,00 kn, we can really enable the employer to pay someone 3.600,00 kn per month for 4.500,00 kn and 4,600,00 kn gross two, respectively, total cost. That's what's gonna happen after 1.1. So at 3,000 600 with the untaxable part he's going to pay 4000 600 and something on it. It's not a big burden and it's a good direction. But it's not enough and we need to keep working. We need to continue to follow economic trends and, of course, every proposal that comes from this government that goes towards discharging tax repression is welcome and we encourage it absolutely. And I want to see that in two years we really do achieve that that people here don't stop leaving, but start coming back to provide them with jobs that they can make a quality and decent living of. Well, if you want some of them to say what they used to say in the former state. Although I don't believe there were many of them. At least I don't know so many. So I think, of course, we will support this proposal personally. But he's not going to solve it, and I say it more than once, and we're going to have to keep on doing exactly the discharging of entrepreneurship, to discharging entrepreneurs, and to discharging all tax duties, especially when we get caught up in the face of those strong obligations that our entrepreneurs, craftsmen must also meet and work adhesions for noise, for fire, fire protection, for stickers, for all living things they have to pay and renew and all these parafiscal burdens that they have to give in order to really, really get rid of as many of our entrepreneurs as possible and then allow them to pay more workers out of it and charge themselves through their price of products and to strengthen their purchasing power so that their products are sold and to close the story for ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120209	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120210	Thank you, dear Vice President. I have to tell you that you guys are talking really stupid sometimes. Service industry, I've never heard of that notion. Vice President, please, I'm in charge of my own words. [[Intruder Reiner: Let's not, let's not use such words exactly.]] Service industry. Since when were the services industry? I know what industry is mine, Mr. Chury. You, besides doing these management promotional schemes, have you ever put yourself in the skin of a craftsman, an entrepreneur who pays for all these givings? And did you put yourself in the position of a man who gets a minimum wager having two kids at home who go to school, have to pay for the directing? I don't think you have any sense of what that means and what it means not to have coffee. And you're the government. You're in a position now to tell the rulings, I won't vote for yours, but you're voting for what you said you weren't, and yet you vote for it. You're in position now. We're opposition. We can express our ideas and opinions but you will not adopt them. Well, you're the one who can. And what changes now, it's crumbs. Let it go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120211	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120212	Thank you. I'm glad to at least get some interest, even with a picturesque way of saying it. So territorial activities if you want to. You told me in some replica that I'm explaining something to you here as if you all didn't know, and now you're, you're, you're starting to explain something. Make a deal if I need to explain to you what it means or doesn't need. As far as I'm concerned, I've been a craftsman for over 10 years and I've worked for 3,000 kunas as a project manager, and I think I have absolutely experience on the one hand and on the other hand, and there you've been waving what you would call "entire football" our people. As far as the proposal is concerned, no one can forbid me to say what is good and praise, which is not and say what can be better than you or anyone else. That might bother you. That's your problem. But I think for sure when it comes to something good, and it might be better, it's my job to point it out. But that doesn't mean we have to spill everything and say nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120213	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120214	Dear Representative Curaj, you're saying there's no real room for a minimum wage increase. But I'll tell you this. The annual foreign debt of our country goes about 30 to 35 billion kuna and 7 billion euros, respectively. Try to share 7 billion euros with the total number of employees in Croatia, which is a million and 200 thousand. And imagine that instead of paying off the foreign debt, that money went into workers' salaries. I guarantee you that the salary in Croatia or the average salary in Croatia would then be higher than the average salary in Germany. The reason why we have no salary is because we are in debt slavery and under economic occupation. And this government proposal, unfortunately, will not change that status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120215	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120216	Dear colleague Pernar, yes, so plastic when we look at numbers, it could still be. The only problem is how that debt came to be. Part of this debt... was in debt for pensions and salaries because it could not be said "car is naked", so it was constantly living on debt, taking on debt, buying social peace on debt, pacifying people who really didn't have any contributions, but thus dealing with social issues of failed companies in the 1990s. We all know how that went. So I can agree that the debt certainly isn't good. But debt is not the one that speaks of the country's success in economic terms. So the most successful countries have the greatest debt. It's a paradox, but it is. The thing is, you work with that money when you take the debt. Whether it creates added value, whether it opens jobs, whether people live better because of it then already that debt makes sense, or just buying social peace, giving some fees, giving and that none of it actually gets in the multiplier effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120217	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative of Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120218	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Curaj, you spoke in your debate that we didn't hear any concrete data today about the price of a union basket, about indices. The price is that, though we haven't heard from the motionor, but we heard it in the debate of our colleagues. And there we all agreed that three thousand kunas were too little and that it was not worthy, enough and worthy of the life of a family. But that's not enough in the 2,000 kuna zone as far as we've had untaxable and this add-on is even more than 5,000 though something is better. Our businessmen expected far more than a discharge to disburse precisely by reducing these contributions from which very few were left by the economies. Do you feel that compensation measures are still needed precisely for those most sensitive, which is work force over 50 years, which usually works in the textile, leather industry, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120219	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120220	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Macar. Yes, what I mentioned, of course we're all aware of what it means to rise prices and everything. But when you have one previous law that tells you that the minimum wage is determined by a type of ratio of 4 indicators, then by the monthly poverty risk threshold for one-member households, the average number of household members in Croatia expressed as the ratio between the total population and the number of households in the census, then the employment rate is calculated as the ratio of the total and the active population. So then we're talking about the growth rate of consumption... etc. So I professionally explained that we can't talk about it now should be 3 or 3 and a half. And as far as this problem is concerned, we had it in a package of pension laws in front of the same proposings that de facto we have workers who went to the labour market at 16 years and those 41 years of internships are already 57 years old and that's where we certainly need to further amortise if not through pension reform, at least through this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120221	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120222	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Curaj, it is clear that the minimum wage mechanism is a protective social mechanism. In order not to give me in the future, in order to make any less need for such a mechanism, you mentioned in your debate that we should make our economy competitive. Well, I don't know if the promoter is the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economy is using the data they bring and even twice a year the Croatian Employers' Association, HUP Skor where they see what are the neural points of our entire system. This is primarily a burden on the economy, investment business barriers, labour market, education, health, pension system, judiciary, public administration, these are some points to work on. And without solving the problems in these sectors of structural problems, we will not be able to stimulate the economy in fact to solve these problems that you are talking about so that the economy will be competitive and that there will be no pay problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120223	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120224	Yes, I think that this way we can conclude that, in fact, we and our citizens should actually be the least important of what minimum wage is, that no one should be interested in it, that no one should be crucial because for the only basic reason or no one should have it in the sense that we look at it with this standard and in the sense of today's average salary. Should we tie the minimum wage to the average salary? I say again, pre-regulatory doesn't bring anything unless it's on a healthy basis. When that's when it's the ticket tower that's collapsing. Did it get by borrowing, did it only get by decree we have to have clear, healthy grounds. And trust me, whoever wants to find a good worker will pay for it if he can and if he can sell that product or service. And we have to make it possible for our entrepreneurs to think, develop, and thus raise the least of the wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120225	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120226	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Curaj, the state here is in the role of regulators that the employer cannot pay less than this prescribed. How much of this salary will ultimately be, depending on the company, depends on the sector, depends ultimately on the market for which we have been identified there in the 1990s for the market economy. So it's not the state that can determine what pay will be in the private sector, in the real sector. But it got involved in a way that couldn't be below what was prescribed. So these stories, the insinuations of states can't determine how much, the state doesn't build factories anymore. If anyone's got a problem with that, have them repeat the material a little bit. But anyway, this is a positive measure. It would be ideal if in agreement with partners, with a real economy it could determine far more. But this seems to be an obvious maximum, and of course the private sector will pay the workers as much as it can with the basis of the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120227	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120228	Here's my thanks to my colleague Batinić. Yeah, it's a taste of both my and our debates actually having one, and we learned so that every time we call something a state, it's the state's fault. We need to secure, we don't know what pay we have here, and others work for something far less. Of course, they can't live on it. It's really pointless to talk about at all. And then we're spinning here at some stage of populism, and we're actually missing out on doing what's right, which is that our entrepreneurs, our citizens should live better and better regardless of who's sitting here, who's sitting across the street from the square or anything else. The state must not have a crucial impact on any or any salary. She just has to have what, let's go, what they say employers, say don't just help us in the sense that excessive interventionism always doesn't work out well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120229	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120230	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Curai, of course we all want our workers to have jobs and to have the wages they can live on. This way it won't happen because this increase is good too, but it's a Christmas present too small to live quality. And you are aware that at prices in a consumer basket of 6 thousand 700 kuna with 3 thousand kuna a man can't even afford to pay that basket. And I agree with you, one comprehensive analysis must be made. So who's got that information? Resort ministries and state bodies why didn't they do the right analysis? Why didn't they talk to the employers and the unions? We heard the complaint that there was no real communication and dialogue, that the public consultation was missed or the deadlines were shortened in the emergency procedure. Why? To make sure it's Christmas. It should make it easier for employers to do business, to reduce the state apparatus, and not to abolish the agencies, and the Employment Encouraging Agency, and to take over all employees of these agencies, so there will be a greater cost of changing the solution and the signboards at the Ministry, but there will be savings. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120231	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120232	That 6,724,00 kn for the 8th month The union basket for the 4th family member when we add up two minimum salaries, that's not enough, the average salary is not enough, is it, as a rule, one average salary is not enough and of course, then what happens is exactly what people are leaving. But I still don't see how we can change it with this law and today's debate, this is welcome, every increase is welcome, we have to think and go back to that base that one decree can destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs, then we've just made a bigger problem. Therefore, I agree, and there we have well diagnosed the market economy at the level of purchasing power, at the level of stimulating economic activity on all sides, with the release of the economy, and then we can expect the effects of overindulging and on retaining people and just coming to that union basket which, again I say, is a minimum, is not even that I don't know what kind of wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120233	Thank you. Now individual debates will be held by the respected representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120234	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here we have been discussing for some time the minimum wage to be raised by €250,00, of course, every kuna to our citizens is welcome, but unfortunately we are not discussing the causes of the society that is now in power, that 20% of the Croats are on the poverty threshold, that 350 000 people, even more, have left the Republic, and these are people who are both educated and in the best working capacity, quite a lot of young people, and they are the first to leave because of a small salary, and others are leaving because of what today is ruling in our society. A society without justice, without tolerance, with no feelings, a society that has not yet escaped from World War II because only in the Republic of the Left and Right are divided according to Ustashas and Partisans, nowhere in the world. We're talking about a minimum salary of 40,000 people, we're talking about its amount, we're talking about over 6,000 people who don't get paid at all, we're talking about one number of 850,000 people who are between 2.500,00 kn and 5.500,00 kn + that 87,000 who are up to 6.500,00 kn and when we add up these 6,000, we're nearly 100,000 people who don't have enough to live because today with these kinds of salaries you can't live with, and here's the last piece of information I found from March that employs 1 365 000 workers, almost 10% of them in public services, and even more if administrations are added to a variety of jobs for many people. How many people work in that real real sector that has to secure tax taxes to pay for everything. First, here, from HS, from the Government, from all the ministries, and onwards, who must pay all that is done from the budget, i.e. So 200 billion budgets, 40 billion pensions, i.e. Retirement benefits. I don't think any group is as burdened as this real sector and so it turns out there can't be more pay. In a conversation with entrepreneurs, they agree to remain as gross as it is today, but let that net at least 50% go up and let the gross be far less giving to the state, to stop eviction and to make workers have more money for greater consumption that will generate new jobs. As long as we don't raise our consumption, and with this £250,00, it's not a significant increase in consumption, we, my people, will not be able to create new jobs. We speak of 250,00 kn raise the minimum wage in a country where 65 million kuna is given for phones in the administration, in the public administration, 65 million kuna. That's 162.00 kn for these 40,000 that receive minimum wage. 3 billion for planes, we buy for millions of U.S. fleets and employees. As long as this country has official cars, even God doesn't know, God doesn't know. That's what these people in the real sector pay for. Imagine a craftsman who hires himself, pays his own salary and how much he has fiscal and parafiscal contributions, so normally to hire someone else to help him, but simply not possible, is not possible. In order for this society to move, many things have to reset and start over. This is just buying some peace, this is just rocking the train we're driving on, so it looks like we're driving, but we're not moving anywhere. And we're not going to change anything like this, except maybe buy someone and his opinion, and maybe he rounds up that HDZ that's doing everything for it. We have sold all the strongest companies in this country, by Telekom, here is Petrochemy Kutinska in private hands, from various companies that have hired a large number of people who have hired a large number of people have been destroyed in privatisation. We gave the banks everything. We consolidated them first, and then we put them in private hands. And what are banks doing today? 300 and 30 thousand blocked, loans. Here's a colleague dealing with the problem, Frank. The people have been robbed in an unfair way, and the state is grumbling about it. We have not heard once that the government stood up for the people, for the Croatian people in the banks, not once, but is being helped by banks. Banks are those that record the biggest profits annually, far greater than any industry in the Republic of Croatia, than any sector. We destroyed the farm. The Chamber of Agriculture in Styria calculated that each job in agriculture creates almost two jobs in the economy. But we don't need agriculture. We don't need livestock. We don't need pork. We don't need flowers, vegetables. We don't need anything, because on what is imported into Croatia, obviously someone has a pink. I can't interpret it any other way. In Croatia, the number of malignancies is on the rise. The life expectancy has been cut short because of bad food, and it is these people who have minimum wage that we are now talking about how we are going to help them greatly with 250 kunas right now that they have to buy the cheapest and most invaluable meat, and these are the people who get the most sick and these 250 kunas can't help themselves in health care. And today's situation in Croatian health is catastrophic. It's a disaster. Someone with a tumor, so they tell him to come in two years for a checkup. Today, if you want a good doctor, you have to pray for him on your knees. Unfortunately, we also have these problems that revolve around television where they talk about that bribe and I don't know what. Often people make mistakes here themselves. But if so too, will we solve the few more doctors we have where we will end up? We don't have a doctor today. The other day at Sisak Hospital writing paper due to a lack of doctors please be patient there are longer waitings possible. Where are those people with the minimal in that story? They're gone. More and more drugs have to be bought. Well, here's what we're going to do. So we're going to pay for the insulin supplement. Those who inherited diabetes will have to pay taxes because they inherited something, not guilty of it. That's why I appeal to all of you who raise your hand on Fridays and like parrots, you make all the laws no matter how often you know it's wrong yourself. Come on, turn your conscience on. Turn your conscience on and don't bring all those laws every time. Remember your neighbors, citizens. You're walking around Zagreb, a little bit so someone's handing out the kuna two, please buy me food, please help me with the baby. Remember these people. And from Zagreb as far away as possible. The further south, the sadder. Minimal doesn't solve anything. Because of the minimum people can only get out of this country. Minimals cannot be paid for neither the director nor the basics. Five thousand kuna is a bit of a minimumer, but let's at least make it five thousand kuna. But that's where the state has to give up its donations. We can't burden the businessmen because it's hard for them, too. In Poland, if the net salary is 3,000 euros, it is 3 and 900 gross. In Croatia, if there are 3,000 euros in salaries, there are 6 thousand and something. How can they be competitive with the Poles? Not at all. Include people's conscience and join a little in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120235	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120236	Thank you, colleague Lenart. Despite your request, I will not be opposed to an increase of 250 kuna minimum. But what you said to 5 thousand kunas, yes, I don't know what to give up the state at the salary of 5 thousand kunas, pension or health care or one and the other. Because it's the only thing that's practically paid up to four thousand kunas net,...the others are gone. And here we would like to see it then, and yet we must bear in mind that we must make laws that are equal for all citizens regardless of their incomes and that we cannot make a difference between citizens at the level of health care services or above all their pensions because it would not have passed even in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120237	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120238	Comrade Curai, the state doesn't have to give up much. At some point, he has to cut the charges. And by opening jobs and spending, because everything a Croatian citizen or worker gets on it Croatia takes 25% of VAT. 25%, a quarter. If you found a four-listed kid, the state will take you... Three, but in this case one. As soon as you buy something, 30 percent are on the state's payroll up to 44 percent. Only when they turn around, when the number of workers is increased, when increased consumption occurs will the state likely earn in a few years and more than what it will give up in the taxes it requires from employers. People won't leave. He'll stay in Croatia. If he were five thousand kuna minimum, he wouldn't leave. The labour market is already slowly doing its job. Salaries must go far beyond that, and the state keeps killing 25% on every ice cream, on every apple.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120239	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Dragica Vranjes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120240	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministry representatives, State Secretary Buric and his associates. Here is the minimum wage law before us today, so this law does not determine minimum wage and it is very important to highlight this law but it is this law that allows the government of the Republic of Croatia to increase the minimum wage in total by 504 kuna. We know it's the biggest increase in 10 years, and that's the facts. Of course we can all speak from different aspects and we can take one view of that employee or employer that it is good or not, that it can be more or it is too much, but it is very important to objectively look at these things and look at what this law is specifically about. We heard here remarks that there would be no more workers, I know why they would not be because I think the minimum wage is and it is a very good way to attract or that the workers stay here, but it would not even be directed so much that the minimum wage will affect the staying or leaving of the workers, I think we have another problem, we are constantly talking about eviction and we have probably and especially when they have not been open so much as it has been very expressed, part of the workers who can't go anywhere, who can't work anywhere, who live in one environment are not mobile, we had this in our midst about tourism, employment in tourism, employment in tourism, for years we've had very little salaries and waiters and all these interests accompanied by tourism, we didn't invest in these people, and of course when they opened up the borders, one part of which was very quickly used it and went out, but one part of the people simply couldn't go away. By tax reform, the second set of tax reform, or another set of tax reform measures, we try to help both employers and employees and relieve them, but in order to give a very real impact on society and the economy, it is very important that we look at this part of the citizens who are not in tax returns, and so with some indirect measures, and this one direct, we help such citizens, through indirect measures in tax reform, this was a tax on income or a reduction in basic supplies, and here we are trying to directly increase the minimum wage to ensure a better life for our citizens. And, of course, that's where two articles of our Constitution conflict. Here we have an article 56, which can read that it is necessary to establish a minimum wage that will enable him to live off his work and on the other hand we have an article 49 that tells us about market freedoms and how to assess what this wage is minimal, which will ensure and which will ensure respect for Articles 56 and 49. The Constitution of the Of course, the opposition if it's going to bring solutions and criticise, it's the easiest thing to do with this measure because if we say minimum wage is 3000 kuna and it's clear that it's a very large increase, meaning the biggest increase in the last 10 years, in this term as much as 500 kuna, of course you can say why you shouldn't be 6, why shouldn't you be 7, someone will take the employer's position, some employees, and we can talk nonsense here all day long. We've also heard that the government has done an analysis in increasing the minimum salary to 4,000 kuna, threatening to fire us a few thousand. Now let's go back to these procedural provisions of this law. It was very important to assume that it would not have been accidentally exploited or that the existing law would not have encouraged these intended tax reliefs, that employers would not have paid the minimum wage, that there would be such minimum salaries as much as possible, that even those to whom they would be greater would not be greater than those to be minimal, therefore the reduction in the basis for the calculation of contributions in 2019 but in all of the next transitional period which reduced that reduction of the basis for the calculation of the contribution. We also need to see consideration about when the Income Tax Act, on a lower profit tax, we simply need to enable it not all to go in favour of employers, to see that part on salaries and more rationally, more specifically, more clearly define these measures and it is very important to mention the compensatory measures. So this is a new measure by the labour ministry that will allow 200,000 euros in de Minimis support to maintain the number of employees. So it's important not to give the flat-rate solutions, to look at everything, to talk as much about this law as possible because there really is a topic that we can talk about here and all the details that are related to this particular law, which clearly every negative aspect or anything that we would look at for ourselves, can bring some negative effects, trying to prevent. So by regulation, the government has made minimum wage, i.e. increased, by law we have these procedures, on the other hand we have new measures of the Ministry of Labour which will allow employers to re-attract higher salaries and that somehow all these aspects are met, without anyone being threatened because, regardless of the Minimum Salary Act, in the last year, it is very visible by the JPPD patterns that a large number of people do not receive a minimum prescribed salary, inspections do so, some 37, almost 40,000 citizens are now receiving a minimum or below minimum wage contrary to the provisions of the regulation, and I definitely need access to it by looking at all aspects and I have to repeat for the end, meaning an increase of 500 kuna, 504 kuna in this 10 years is the largest increase and I think that employees will be satisfied and I think that there is a series of measures that will make it easier for employers to adapt to this law and regulation of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120241	Thank you. We've got some replicas, a respected representative of the goddess at least she'll be first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120242	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, dear fellow Members, here you have spoken in your debate that we need to objectively look at things and we really need it because there is still a part of the entrepreneurs whose low amount of 3000 kuna will be a problem, so it is regulated that, exceptionally from Article 6 of this law, a collective contract can contract a minimum wage of the amount prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and another article says that it cannot be less than 95%. So now from that point of view, you're going to be this guy. 8 or apply only to the signatories of the collective agreements, to all members of the Association, or shall apply. 203. The Act of Labour which the Minister may prescribe to extend the objection of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120243	Thank you, Your Honor, for the response of the Honorable Representative, Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120244	I am glad that you mentioned that this Law will not make all employers very difficult to look at only this measure, pay the salary, and therefore these other measures are available, such as the measure of these deminimities support up to EUR 200,000,00 and here I would like to stress, so the law is detailed and the circle to which this applies, so I think it is important to highlight the measure of micro-employers who employ themselves and on agricultural economies, cooperatives and the like, that they will not be obliged to pay their own minimum wage and the second set of measures has been adopted, which by law, which through the incentives that employers would really overcome without difficulty and it is amazing to think that someone would now be able to pay the minimum wage without looking at all of it, of course, and these problems that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120245	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120246	Thank you. Well, esteemed colleague Vranjesh, I allow myself to speak nonsense and nonsense, but it will be evaluated by people who are employers and those who receive minimum wage, whether what I said is nonsense or nonsense. You say the taxes on groceries in this big tax reform that's called, reform it's not, that supply tax can be played by all traders. Do they have to cut the price? They don't have to. And you know it's going to happen that the price is going to stay the same, only they're going to make a little more money, but it's not going to be groceries produced in the Republic of Croatia. As my colleague said, no assessment of the impact of this Law has been made, and people are leaving, believe me, people are going to me from Petrochemy where solid wages are, 5.00 kn on further, leaving because they're sick of this injustice and all that's going on, and you support what's not happening and... and press your voice for all the laws adopted by HDZ. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120247	The answer of the esteemed representative Vranjš.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120248	My dear colleague, you are constantly in discussions today contradictory, and I must say that you have been discussing it a little differently for the past few days because it has become modern to use all sorts of words, you have been a little too clear in your debate, I didn't want to even look back on it, mentioning parrots and so on, and indeed, those representatives who have been using it for the past 10 days, and the epithetists have ended up in the media, but I must say that you don't really do it, colleague Bulj, colleague Pernar, which is better for them, not for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120249	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Please don't get off the bench. Dear colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120250	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. Here, I welcome everyone and I'm glad we're talking about a minimum wage growth today. I also have to say that I am sorry that there is one worker working for the minimumer today and 37 or 40,000 of them, depending on who observes the statistics, how many in the Republic that will gladly receive this news that employers from now on will have to pay the minimumer in the amount of about 3.000,00 kn, it is a big shift for them. However, all of our discussions, including mine, go for it to take a lot more, much more than by the government and competent ministries through quality analysis, through strategic thinking of the development of the Republic of Croatia, do for the creation of new jobs and those jobs where salaries will be paid that will enable quality life in the Republic. And it's not populist, because that's what many colleagues today said in the debate that there was no real dialogue, no unions, no employers, no real public debate. Is this a one-time measure that does not have long-term effects, and with this increase, part of entrepreneurs from sensitive sectors will not be able to monitor this growth and will probably have to seek either savings in business or in reality have to share and quit. That's not good. You boast that the number of people who work for a minimumer from 70,000 to 37 or 40 has been reduced. However, it should be told the truth that part of those people who worked for the minimumer has gone from the Republic of Croatia. Thank God, there are also those employers who, because of the circumstances in the labour market, where labour shortages are lacking, have increased their salaries themselves and thank them for that and I congratulate them on their ability to do so. However, there are also a lot of workers who have left because they didn't believe it would come to this, nor have they had the hope of being able to get out of that salary, from the minimum wage, and then tomorrow neither since the pension of 1,800,00 kn or 2000,00 kn live in the Republic of Croatia and they had to go with the belly for bread where they were better valued by their work. And if we really want to stop the emigration of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, Like, Zagor and other undeveloped areas, then we have to pursue these standards as our people who have, go to Ireland, Germany to have such conditions in the Republic of Croatia, at least roughly, it is difficult to reach EUR 1.613.00 as much as the minimum wage in Ireland, but it is so prescribed there. 800 and some EUR is in Slovenia. We are already missing a lot of workers, and it is said that in the coming period they will leave even more, especially when Austria allows and liberalises the entry of labour into its territory. And it's a real danger. And that's why I'm saying that you need one strategic reflection, not only of your ministry, but of all the ministries together with the government, along with HUP, with employers, with industry, with people who are every day... And of course with unions and workers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without such access, we will not achieve the effects that Minister Maric has advocated here that he wants to grow in the Republic of Croatia through increased exports, that we want to grow in the Republic of Croatia through increased withdrawals of funds from the EU and thus create an investment climate and create new jobs in Croatia. There's a real danger that it won't happen. Where he because of our administrative barriers because we made too many administrative obstacles ourselves, partly because we have an inefficient administration if you hired over 2,000 people on the same and similar jobs and we increased the paid share from only 9 to 14%. The minister boasts that over 55% has been agreed. However, the reality is that only 14% has been paid and that it has been paid through further evaluations, post analysis, there is a real danger that we will have to return something and because it is not all carried out according to the regulations that we have set ourselves, as the EU asks of us then. And the real danger is that we won't be able to do it... the turn of European policies, especially when it comes to cohesion policy, where a 45% reduction in cohesion funds is announced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the Europarliamentary said. 7.3% are being reduced by the European Social Fund and you are calling for more funding from the European Social Fund to create new jobs in Croatia in the coming periods. I am afraid that there will be fewer funds and we will be less successful, so the question is that we do not have long-term quality policy developments and it is particularly dangerous that with 16% announced and the reduction of funds in the European Common Agricultural Fund and 28% is... less resources for regional development, and here is what should be pointed out that the majority of people who work for the minimum person in Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem and other undeveloped areas, that the average salary in Zagreb is more than 7500 kuna while the same average salary in Slavonia and 30% or 40% in some parts, some counties lag behind the average salary in Croatia and that it is unsustainable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're not all equal and it's unacceptable that we're still in... regions, that the same problem in business is the one that works and operates in Ilock, Županja, Gunja, Novi Gradiška, as well as those that operate in Zagreb and around Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there are no specific regional policies. I have invested the amendment precisely to create a fund for craftsmen and entrepreneurs from Slavonia because they cannot prepare the project themselves, pre-finance, co-financed, and especially what is announced by policy changes that their own share will be no more than 15% in the Republic of Croatia but 30%. Under such circumstances, entrepreneurs from Slavonia and Baranja will find it very difficult to monitor these trends and pay a minimum wage of 3000 kuna unless the state makes reforms more aggressive. We have to do such policies that will relieve the economy and now it's nice to say it, but you can, through tax reform, free those who have a salary above 17500 kuna because they're not going to spend it on themselves anyway and they can live with it and they already have skis paid in Austria, Italy, France, they're not going to spend it here. And if you had raised workers, freed the employer of that part of the tax from 3500 kuna to 10000 where most of the employees of the Republic of Croatia with such incomes, they would have given them 500, 600, 1000 to whom, more salaries, spent both Croatia and then Croatia would have these 25% through VAT and through increased consumption, which Minister Maric advocates and hopes will happen in Croatia with a reduction in VAT from 25% to 13%, to part of the groceries but the real danger is that it will not happen, due to climate change, the prices of agricultural products in Europe will rise and we are most importing. We have a decline in agricultural production and we have done nothing to raise it and it is a real danger that new owners of Vupik, Belja, Pika Vinkovci, when they see that it is doing negatively, give up some production, to lose these jobs there and not provide enough food for our population. And in this cart that costs 6724 kuna for August, which this worker with a minimum of 3000 kuna cannot buy half, no Croatian products, is at least Croatian products. So I'm saying that the general needs of both your ministry and other resolution ministries are finally at the table so see which policies we want to lead in Croatia, which industries are interesting to us, where there is a comparative advantage over the environment and not to be our main message to work in Croatia, come invest in Croatia, there is a cheap workforce. That's the wrong message, that's not to be spoken from the state level. We must create such jobs in Croatia that people will be able to live on these salaries. From personal income and this way impossible. Of course, they have industries that can't follow these growth trends of minimum wages, but that's why we need to sit down with them and see how they help them, and not that the state industry where they work is over 50,000 employees, there's not enough troops to finalize and process furniture because a decision has been made to export some of the troops. This is inadmissible, it must be processed to the last log in Croatia. We're the biggest company in the world, but we're exporting everything out. We didn't even create the conditions that our citizens can afford cheaper fuel and heating without saying that it's a shame that Slavons can't go into the woods and bring in meters, two, three trees, to heat themselves over winter, but they have to think they want to buy wood because they've collected or will go to the store to buy a piece of this consumer basket. That's why it's necessary for the minimumer to grow more seriously. And that you have long-term forecasts that these people can plan and workers whether they will stay working for this but also employers whether they will be able to survive in the Croatian market through such business, we have not seen such approaches from these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120251	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, to colleagues Panenic and colleagues Batinić. Here you go, colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120252	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlaovic, you mentioned that the national stake will increase from 15% to 30%. You have not mentioned how this will spill over to users, whether users remain in the same conditions, or whether it will add to them. It's not the same if the state takes over but then the state needs to tell us now we're going to pay for it, but it's probably another question if they're going to take it from the user or from the citizens to pay for it or they're going to redistribute the funds, so I'd like to ask more if here you might explain, what you think is the policy going on, whether it's an open policy that's going to fight for its entrepreneurs, its citizens or that, trying to translate that it's a common agricultural policy, a common European policy, and we're ultimately a collateral sacrifice. What do we do, do we fight, have you noticed somewhere that, what, we don't give it, we won't accept it? Which side did we settle on? Here, these are the key questions that citizens expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120253	Thank you for your response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120254	Thank you, colleague Panenic, for your replica. Well, of course our citizens are interested in these answers because they all follow the developments at EU level and see this shift in European policies that are turning towards migration, towards the protection of borders, towards strengthening the military role of the EU military and so on, and less will be for cohesion policy. It has been announced, it is still being discussed, somewhere 6% less funds for Croatia. Whether our prime minister and ministers will be aggressive enough and strong enough and have quality arguments in their statistics, where Croatia should be able not to reduce this share, especially this part of which is referred to as agricultural policies. And what's going on here? We at national level do not pay those, our share for direct payments, and in the coming years budget projections, the reduction of national share. That's the answer. Obviously, someone does not care about domestic production, but looks to be saved from national sources for other needs, and we will continue to import food. It's a bad policy and it's not good for people who work on a minimal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120255	Thank you. Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120256	Thank you. When you mentioned tax policy, tax redundancies of the economy, we can absolutely agree. However, you mentioned tax relief on income. Although now, the last tax reform completes income tax goes to local and regional self-government. And now if fiscal balance had not been introduced, many units, especially in Slavonia, in less developed areas, would not have had that fiscal balance, from municipalities and cities, so the question is, we all agree that the non-taxable part would have been raised up to 5000-6000 kn. But then what? Where do you get that from? That's the problem and the best indicator for you, baskets, to express yourself, shopping, just get your income, budgets of local self-government units. We're very different, we've got about 1,000 kn of income, without this flattenance and up to 10 to 15. And of course the state has to be there, the regulator.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120257	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120258	Thank you, Comrade Batinic. This last tax reform is true that the total income tax was transferred to the incomes of the unit of local and regional self-government and there was corrected one injustice that was learned earlier, for example only the Ship-Posavina County lost more than 60 million kn of its own income in those two years or three. Now they've been returned around 30, so they're still not given back everything they've lost, and they won't be able to monitor this trend that they'll have to co-finance the project 30% because they don't have enough resources. And they must be sought at national level from their own reserve sources for such projects from Slavonia. So I proposed a special fund for a co-financed project from Slavonia and a special fund for craftsmen and entrepreneurs from Slavonia. Because it's impossible for you to be equal to the one who has 200, you know it best because you were the head of the local self-government unit. So, in that direction, we can make some steps, and now this last tax reform is reducing revenues again. Local self-government units for 270 million kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's it. I don't know if they planned it in their budget for next year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120259	Thank you. Now we have two finals. He is the first colleague, Ivan Pernar, in front of a team of representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120260	Thank you, Madam Chairman, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'd like to say that, the situation in which our colleague Branimir Bunjac spoke and this transmission went to HTV 4, however, at one point when the debate got heated, the transmission of HTV was cut off and news was posted. The news was supposed to be at 2:00, but they were released early. To what end? So in order for the public to be unable to hear what our colleague and the scene were saying, this situation reminded me of the 1988 movie They Live. In one sequence, in fact, some pirates, when I say pirates, I mean people who broadcast the signal without the state's permission, they broadcast the signal on television, and they went into the transmission of some, like, normal programs and they started sending one message. The message went like this: "Our impulses have been redirected. We live in an artificially challenged state of consciousness, which resembles slavery." The movement, meaning resistance to that system, was launched by a group of scientists who accidentally discovered that the signal, at that moment it returned, I would say the transfer from HRT and then collapse the transmission of HRT again and the text goes on, or words: "The poor and disfigured are increasingly. There is no such thing as racial justice and human rights. They created a repressive society, and we are their unconscious associates. Their intention to rule is to wipe out our consciousness. We've been pushed into a trance, they've made us indifferent, we've become bad to others. We're just looking at our break. Try to understand, they're safe until they're discovered. It's their primary survival mechanism. Keeping us drowsy, selfish, loaded pills." So what's this all about is that HRT is a de facto associate in sleeping our nation and our people, that HTV is a participant in the fact that people are unconscious, that they don't wake up from a state of hypnosis and a trance that they're pushed into, and even those who aren't brainwashed with HRT propaganda, what's going on with them? They're on pills. It's their program. We have an epidemic of depression, people are reluctant, of course they'll say sir, so you're not depressed because you have a salary of £3,000. You're not depressed because you're blocked. You're not depressed because your marriage is falling apart, you're not depressed because you're hung up on your neck, you're not depressed because you have 30 years' credits, which is the question of when you're gonna get them back. No, you're depressed because you have a chemical imbalance in your brain. And dear friends, you have a small pension, you have a pension of £1500, you can't live on it, so you're not depressed because you have a small pension, you're depressed by chemical imbalance. And then the elite system, to control the mass, decided to give all these people a diagnosis of medical, or psychiatric depression, load them with drugs and put them to sleep, actually push them into a state of unconsciousness. To dull their feelings and emotions. Why? So that they may be put to sleep, so that it may be easier to rule over them. And the media and that psychiatry actually work together. They work with the aim of my court and believe that they are the so-called social control mechanism, that they actually manage mass and in such a society where people are brainwashed by HRT where people's pills are simply numbed by consciousness, in this way, in fact, by my court, society is brought into a state of collective unconsciousness, apathy and in a state of acceptance of all this policy that this HDZ is carrying out over it. I call on the Croatian people to wake up from hypnosis, and a good step in this direction is to go to youtubes or go to Google and look for the movie They Live, from 1988 to look at it and they will actually understand what we are up against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120261	Thank you. I didn't see much of a... But, well, here we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120262	Dear Chairman, my colleague Pernar has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 238, because it is clear that it will read, the HRT reads from the court of Andrej Plenkovic what is most important to end. So I think it is unnecessary that you, you should have given a warning that you are talking about what is constant and everyday, because simply what is important does not show, what is appropriate to them show it, because it is simply an HTV note or an HRT note from the court of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120263	Thank you very much. As I say, I asked for some kind of causality between the agenda point and the presentation of my colleague Pernar, he mentioned at one point 3,000 kn minimum during his debate, so that I could undermine it, this final proposal for a minimum wage law, and you've abused your colleague's rules of procedure, because I'm going to have to give you a warning. Thank you. And what am I going to do, we're going to continue our colleague Panenic, here you go. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120264	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you are actually a representative of the Croatian people, who each time gets another warning on every law. A reminder to actually see, that this isn't going to work like this. That this law will simply not solve your problem will not solve your citizens' problems, it will not solve the problem in Croatia. We've been doing makeup all along. Right now, I was, uh, going on a tour, so we got a cab driver, like, how sometimes when I go down to talk to regular people, basically how do we figure out where we're sitting here? We are sitting here, and we should, in fact, primarily represent those who want to create added value. These are the ones who go to invest their assets, their friends, their relatives, everyone they can get to, and eventually they're in charge of creating something, so they need workers, professional, qualified, satisfied. Do we have satisfied workers? If we're talking about minimum wage, which is 40, not the full 40 grand that we have working for the minimum wage. Because what? Intention, the intention of minimum wage is not at all to determine, but in other countries, they prevent the supply of labour from being higher in one Germany, so many offers, people from all countries come, and even from Croatia, come there, offer, and at prices, are willing to work for something lower and not to bring down the lowest wage, because of the offer that is there. Here at our place, there's actually no offer on the market, there's actually a phenomenon, that entrepreneurs themselves realize they have to raise wages, and they can't even pick up who they want anymore, they raise that salary, and then we talk about minimum wage. We don't just have the same settings, so we're not in the ranks of a country that's actually trying to protect the dignity of workers, to get a properly paid captain's work, we've actually set one of the lowest criteria here, we're actually still a criterion within the poverty that these workers are in. The law we're discussing, we have it practically regularly in the parliamentary debates, every year it changes a little bit, some new frames are put on, but we can't get to that successful model. Should we now give this government and this ministry a warning? After so much fucking, I don't think it's a warning anymore, should we throw them out. We can't be the ones who can throw out, the elections, the people, actually, and the voters will show if they're gonna do it. And then we get to that paradox that happens, that with us, the condition that it is, okay, if we're looking for a change, something might happen to us that's going to hit us on our own, so let's not get upset. And then we turn out here, who we're talking about at the pay phone, we're marketing more energy, more consumption suppression, unwarranted consumption, a number of those who have jobs that really don't need to not burden the system, we're eventually some dissidents that the system, society should condemn, and what we're saying is actually what every man in our house wants to go to. And even these examples that we have heard today, people say that some relatively solid wages are not ready to stay anymore, because this government is not sending a message that we are going in the right direction that people rely on this government's work, that better times are coming, that every year we will grow more and more, that we will reach Slovenia, that we will reach Austria, that we will reach Germany, and that is the achievement of the European dream we dreamed of. About the free flow of goods, the labour force is the community we expect, this is how we have another attempt right at the beginning, it was seen that the minister doesn't even want to listen at all, and then his theatre performance, which has fallen to all MPs, is just saying that he simply thinks that this is the best solution offered and that he will solve all problems and that those who have 3,000 kuna minimum wage will become the happiest employees. I'm responsible and the club I come from, it's not going to happen, and the dissatisfaction continues, we're looking for a new, more quality, a stronger measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120265	Thank you. And now on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120266	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, above all, I welcome all the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs and I thank you for the debate, which has been very intense, and today we have had the opportunity to listen to both bananas and parrots and chemical imbalances, and about logs and laws that are not the Law on Minimum Payments, such as the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Law on Supported Areas, which are terribly important to us and for which the Government of Andrej Plenkovic provides an additional 150 million kuna, and since I am from the Mountain Kotar, and since this is my home and my end I love to talk very much about it, but we are back to the scale of this debate, which is precisely the Law on Minimum Payment. So what should be mentioned once again is that the Minimum Salary Act does not prescribe a minimum wage amount but defines minimum wage and says what the minimum wage is and what the minimum wage is not. And that is why you remember that last year's amendments to this law have been set and prescribed that Sundays, night work, holidays etc. pay on top of the minimum salary until then, until last year, and it was internally implemented, and now it's on top. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made an important decision in 2019 setting minimum wage for 2019 at an amount of 3000 kuna net and in 2018, the minimum wage was 2.751 kuna, which represents an increase of 248 kuna net salary, which means an increase of 9% compared to 2018. The gross amount that today is 3,439 will be 3,750 kuna and 310 kuna, respectively, higher in gross. And that's the biggest increase ever. This is what needs to be particularly highlighted and what is in fact the message of this whole law and the message of this debate that it is the biggest increase ever. Before this increase, the minimum wage in this government's mandate was raised by 13.6%, twice 5%, which is cumulatively 10.25%, plus a 3.3% increase after the minimum wage excluded exactly what I was saying earlier, which is holidays, night work, Sundays, etc. And that is why it should be particularly stressed that this is the biggest increase ever from 504 kuna and almost 24% in the last two years of the government's term of office of Andrej Plenkovic. And what I would like to correct, and what was mentioned in the debate, is that some MPs here said that the minister said that was enough for a decent life. You yourself know that the minister didn't say that, the minister said it was more than it was before and that it was the biggest increase ever and that it was better with this 504 kuna increase than without it. And if this minimum salary of 3,000 kuna is enough for a quality life, that's what we're all going to agree on, and we're all going to agree that it's not enough for a quality life, but this government has raised that salary by 504 kuna, and that's almost 24% in the last two years. So, in any case, she made a major shift, especially compared to 2015, when this increase was also in number and letter 11.04 kuna, which is 0.4% in percentages. So here today it was heard in this context and the word “christ, ” and speaking in such an ugly way and communicating with such ugly words, then I guess it was meant to increase, because talking about the increase or the money as “the Church, ” not knowing that someone earned that money, someone paid for it, and that someone living is an insult to people who live in this way and whose employers pay for it. And it's like we heard 37,000, so I wouldn't agree that the increase, and especially this 24% increase of any church, that's the biggest increase ever, and if it's any church, then that's what I mentioned earlier, even though I don't like to speak in such harsh terms. I'd also like to mention here that the minimum wage is 01.01. In 2019 in the Republic of Croatia, higher than 9 minimum salaries in the European Union, as the Minister said in the opening speech, when we turn it into EUR 404 and EUR 505 are gross, so we cross the limit of EUR 500, but I believe that you will all agree that when we talk about minimum wage, it is mandatory to put it in the context of purchasing power standards. So it is not the same to pay for kindergarten in Croatia, or Luxembourg, which has the highest minimum wage in the EU of nearly EUR 2000, where, for example, the kindergarten costs 1200 euros. In any case, Croatia has positioned itself somewhere in the middle of the European Union countries with a minimum wage level. In any case, by increasing the minimum wage, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent an important message that we want a better and more dignified life for our citizens, that we are socially sensitive especially to those who have the lowest incomes, and who receive that salary in the Republic of Croatia have 37,000. I would also like to mention here the particularly compensatory measures, which are not prescribed by this Law, however, have a major impact on people who receive and employers who pay minimum wage. It is therefore that employers will be able to use de minimis support up to EUR 200,000, and these are so-called small value support programmes through which employers will be able to get up to a million and a half kuna, and this will be a measure within the Croatian Employment Office. There were also a few questions I have an obligation to answer, first of all Mr. Maras asked about the RIZ transmitters, what I can say is that the labour inspectorate, that in the work plan for 12 months 2018, had put exactly the control in that company and that just this morning the surveillance began, but what you know yourself, that only after the supervision was completed, that there would be something more to say about the situation as well as the measures taken. In addition, there was also a matter of urgent procedure for the adoption of this Act, you also know that they are personal, particularly justified reasons for the adoption of this Act by an emergency procedure listed in the very law that you have read, and that they refer to the reasons which are economic and social. Also, what I need to stress is that the working group worked, that round tables were held regarding minimum wage and other parts of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the minimum wage parameters are concerned, they are probably well-known to you, here mentioned the height of the consumer basket, but for the four-member family, that someone forgot to say, however, that is the figure relating to the four-member family, and given the parameters according to which the minimum wage is arranged, we have actually come to a final, final increase, or final figure for 2019 of 3000 kuna. In any case, this is the biggest increase ever, the figures are inexorable, this government has increased the minimum wage by almost 24% over the past two years. Here's my thanks, and I'm in favor of any questions or replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120267	Yeah, yeah, we have ten exact replicas. We're going with colleague Miro Bul, after which is counterpart Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120268	Dear Secretary Buric. It turns out that in our discussions, we must not mention Gorski Kotar, Pilane, Kovica Pilane, our empty, and our material and our tree in Italy produce additional value, or similar problems for entrepreneurs who will be difficult to achieve in hill-mounted areas, there is simply no labour force, again there is no labour force, only by incentives in these areas for entrepreneurs and the discharge of entrepreneurs can survive in this area. And it would be best if it were something vague for you to write to us when you came from the government, which we may say, may we mention the word of a church girl who... Colloquially, there, I don't see any reason why you're talking, the MPs were saying, yes, they talked about the subject, never the fewer workers, we don't have workers, we have 2/3 of Croatia's empty and entrepreneurial climate in those parts is bad, because they're not competitive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's a fact, all the other stories of your intention are basically that Parliamentarians can't talk about entrepreneurs whose account it's going to come to, this isn't going to the government... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120269	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120270	Dear and esteemed Mr. Bull. In fact, why don't you talk and talk about the Gorski Kotar in this High House at last. I fully agree with you, but while we are talking about Gorski Kotar, why didn't you mention who actually threw Gorski Kotar on his knees and municipalities and towns, nine of them, who in 2013 changed the Law at that time, who were taken from about 57 million kunas and thus the municipalities and cities were thrown on their knees. This government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, has secured for Gorski Kotar through the Hill-Mountain Law, 40 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120271	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120272	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238, I ask you to warn Madam Secretary of State to stick to the subject and not to talk about what is not a topic here, and on the other hand, give the representatives a lecture on what they should say, which they should not. So, a colleague was playing the Ministry, and she was playing the day, so let's make sure she was put inside the party for the secretary of state. in the Ministry of Regional Development, I have another 9 seconds, please don't take my time, and may come to the debate Thursday on the proposal of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic which is a hollow letter on paper and in which there is no [[/Intruder: Good.]] Nothing. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120273	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120274	The Honorable Chairman, just a moment ago, in my line, you gave me a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here a colleague also injured the Rules of Procedure, but not once the secretary of the river mentioned a minimum wage, nor entrepreneurs, only mentioning some Law of 2014 which has been bad since 2015 for mountainous mountain areas. We were talking here about entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurship climate that will be owed, not the government giving this money, but entrepreneurs we don't have in the Gorski Kotar because you accepted them. in Italy. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120275	I won't give you a warning now because I can agree with you further, there is another problem, so I can give the representative a warning, and now we continue, my colleague Batinić, and after him, a colleague, Djujic, or representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120276	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, namely, when we talk about setting minimum wages, I will repeat what I said, the state is here in the role of regulators, it does not pay, I ask you to repeat in response to my replica because there is a debate going on in the direction as if the state is paying the minimum wage. As far as standards are concerned, as regards Croatian baskets, consumers, etc., this is a subject that can be talked about. However, it is not imperative that the salary cannot be higher. What I would also like to say, of course, I come from a region where the average salary in the north of the Republic of Croatia is about 70% of the average of the Republic of Croatia. And there are also companies, a real sector of processing, leather, where they pay minimum wages, but no one went out of that sector. go highly qualified, highly educated, professional going out for higher wages [[Intruder: Thank you]] Because Germany doesn't need such workers. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120277	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120278	I thank the Honorable Mr Batinić, so I agree that the Minimum Salary Act prescribes a minimum wage amount and that it is neither paid by the Government nor, if I accidentally made a lapus lingue, then it is my apology, but I don't think that I said that in the debate or in the answers that it seems to be anything other than what this Law prescribes the minimum wage and I think we'll agree, and as far as I'm concerned, you mentioned workers who are on a minimum salary and who don't emigrate from the Republic, so that's what we said in the morning, we know ourselves that in, especially in the textile industry, the most workers, and it's over 50 years of relatively low education, and that's why, deminiminate support or compensation. measures up to EUR 200,000,00. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120279	The next replica of counterpart Sasa Djujic, followed by counterpart Zagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120280	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State you've given us a nice lecture on how we can behave, what we can say, I know that you're an expert professor, so it's probably a professional deformity for you, but we're not at this moment on the way forward, but we're in HS where MPs can discuss what they want and what they think they need to say and what I want to say, and I think what I think is probably a professional deformity, I think it's already a problem that you just have to explain to us what the minister said this morning and what you need to iron out his statements and if we're all here representatives of ignorant and not smart enough that we can understand the minister, most of the media who followed this debate, have passed on to the Minister's words, and that the government has sent an important message that he wants a decent life with this measure, and that you're now in your final statement, you're clearly correct, and the minister said what he thinks that the citizens with 3.00. by reforming this government raised for [[Intruder: Thank you]] 3.000,00 kn pay [[Intruder: Thank you]] Prime Minister Plenkovic and his cabinet [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's this amount you're now offering people for minimum wage. [[Intruder: Thank you, answer]] So you don't understand anything until today. [[Aggression: A colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120281	My colleague, please, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120282	Thank you, Mr. Jujitsu. I think that, here it is, the best thing to do is listen to the phonogram, and then we'll see what the minister really said, and the minister said that in any case 3,000,00 kn minimum salary is more than what it was in 2015 and that by 24% more than compared to two years ago, and that's the biggest increase ever, and he never said it was enough for a quality life, so, well, you'll end up listening to the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120283	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague, Žagar, followed by a colleague of Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120284	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, pay policy must be one complex system. You have now repeated what you said this morning, in fact, what the minister said was that the intended exceptions are already with the previous legal solution that can't all go into minimum wage, overtime and so on. However, you can see there are cases where the problem is reversed, so consciously no extras enter the salary to keep it minimal, so it is paid as a field supplement. It's about drivers in a road-line transport that, because of the possibility of paying off a field allowance, they don't get it in the form of a salary, but a field-based supplement. With this, the state budget and their contributions are damaged, and when they retire, they will certainly feel that they are retired, and the state budget will not receive the funds needed. I'll take that question probably, I misdirected it to the Department of Transport, and I'll have you check it out because the Department of Transport said it was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120285	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120286	Thank you, Mr. Sagar. Here, I have to tell you that I thank you for this particular example, but right now from this point of view, I cannot answer this question because I have no knowledge of this particular issue, but that is why I appeal and ask you to report it to the Ministry of Transport, but also to the Ministry of Finance, and that those institutions are doing that part to see what this really is about, because this is the first case I really can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120287	Thank you, next is a colleague of Greece, after which he is a colleague of Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so we're here talking about what the minister said this morning, but for me it's a much more serious message from the Prime Minister's session, where in the opening part of the prime minister's statement, that this increase in the minimum wage will ensure a decent life for people who receive that salary, it's devastating. And that's a fact and you can listen to it 100 times and you'll always hear that same message from the Prime Minister. And that's what's unacceptable, because with 3,000 kuna you know how much the captainship of 3,000 kuna workers, 17 kuna, means a little more than 2 EUR, so he can't pay coffee with his satin, so that can't be the goal of this government, that's something that's a temporary measure of course and where it's actually expected that in the shortest time that this salary will rise, but that he'll compensate for entrepreneurs not to compromise jobs, that's a condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120289	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120290	I thank you, Mr. Greek, here I will just remind you that at the time of your government in 2015 you raised the minimum wage by 11.94 kuna, which is 0.4%, and in 2014 you raised the minimum wage by 32.83 kuna, which is 1.1%. The government of Andrej Plenkovic raised the minimum wage by 23.88%, the figures all speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120291	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Panenic, followed by counterpart Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120292	Thank you well-respected secretary of state, you'd still come back to that beginning actually and you'd take a part and your words that you said, so you said yourself isn't enough yet. So we're not out of that line yet, what we're talking about is exactly the limit of covering the cost of an individual, is it a four-member family, one-member, and that means everyone's trying to cover their lives' lives at least. What burdens me the most in this whole communication, that we are not talking about the cost of life, means the cost of living growth, often the decisions of the government. We see that here's the current as such, what we'll have very soon here is what we've taken some steps but it's growing to us, what we can't stop it as such. We've got more and more drains around the water, so water costs are going up. We've got garbage shipments to protect the environment, too. So the whole collection set needs to be compensated somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120293	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120294	Dear Mr Panenic, this is exactly the government's move to show that it wants more for workers who receive minimum wage and we showed it back two years. You know for a fact that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia has increased by 710 kuna, that we have a 3 fastest growth rate in the EU. We also have a rate of unemployed who is half as small as in 2014 and '15. Today, we have a little over 140,000 unemployed, but 71,000 more newly employed and 50,000 more involved in active employment policies, which we have provided 4.5 billion kuna, which is never again in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120295	Thank you. The next replica is counterpart Alfirev, followed by counterpart Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120296	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, that in any case it was necessary to raise the minimum wage, that's absolutely correct. But what really encouraged me to report to, by replicating your exposure was that you had almost all the exposure, this last, spent, devoted to the justice of what the minister said, and that's what the government was saying, the government mantra is that this is enough for a dignified life. And you tried to justify it. What you later did was say to a fellow Greek that something our government missed out on is actually one thing, so I'd say it's not true because we can keep going like that. in history and say, and what she did [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The government before that or what it missed [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That is, what we are. [[Thank you, colleagues.]] found after your government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120297	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120298	Thank you, Mrs. Alfirev, but I will be very short the same, same answer as Mr. Djujic, so in any case from a minimum salary of 3,000 kunas can't be lived in quality, but it can be a much better life than it is in 2018, because as you saw today in the media, if we have a married couple where both receive minimum wage then they, only on the basis of this increase have 1,000 kuna, pardon 500 kuna greater increases compared to '18. and 1,200 kuna, respectively, increased compared to two years ago. And to stand that increase in your time of 0.4% minimum wage, yes, but such are the figures, these are your results, 0.4% and 11 kuna, respectively, is the increase in your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120299	Thank you, the next replica is my colleague Bunjac, after my colleague Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120300	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, and here are the Croatian citizens who have experienced that HDZ is defending their dignified lives, they would say thank you, but don't defend us. But, well, let's just say it's enough to look at Slovenians, we've been in the same state recently, we've suffered the same Karadjordjevic, Tito, UDBU, I don't know who they all don't, there's a minimum pension, no salary, a pension of 500 euros. So they have a 100-euro higher minimum pension than we have guaranteed minimum wage. With us, the average salary in the city of Zagreb is 6 thousand kunas reportedly, 15 thousand kunas are in Vienna, but the directors are cheaper than in Croatia. And that's the defeat of your government, so you have too much income and too much price. And there's this segment that you're fixing right now that isn't really going to change anything, like I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120301	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120302	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bunjac, here I will remind you that there is also a minimum pension institute, i.e. the lowest pension in the Republic of Croatia. We have just been through Tuesday all day, and almost night debated so you remember very well, if not I will remind you that we have made a proposal that the minimum pension in the Republic next year will grow by 3.13% and that means that 246,000 of our citizens will receive only on the basis of this higher pension. And I also have to mention the national pension we're introducing for all those people who haven't gotten 15 years of internships so they can even receive a pension. Here's just a reminder, you asked, so I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120303	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Maksimchuk, and then my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120304	Thank you, Vice President. Here's only at the end of today's debate that we actually came up with on the subject and we stick to it and it's a minimum wage law. The positive step of this government is, of course, an increase in its 504 kuna mandate which is certainly not negligible, of course, still not enough for those citizens who are on the minimal but to make some balance for employers to be competitive that they do not fire employees is certainly one increase that our citizens will feel but with a number of those, or with the tax reform packages that we have, they will feel, of course, among those with minimal incomes, but there is also an increased number of children who will receive a child's allowance, of course, those 7,000 women that you are through your ministry, through the measure “Wish” of course, that some income that will feel women who are in those years is left without a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120305	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120306	Thank you, Mrs. Maximchuk. I am pleased that you have taken a comprehensive look at all of these measures by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, which relate precisely to the increase of standards from child support, tax reform that has charged our citizens and entrepreneurs for ultimately 6 billion and 400 million kuna, to children's allowances extended to new 90 thousand families and for which we have increased the budget for 2019 as well as for pensions where the largest increase of billions and 600 million kuna for pensions is stopped in the budget, i.e. the indexation of pensions in the following year. You also mentioned the programme "Wishful" with which the ministry is particularly proud because we hired 7,000 women to help the elderly and powerless who help about 35,000 such people, so they can only thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120307	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120308	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State I agree with you that we are here to discuss topics and what also colleagues have said about topics but also topics that are topics of the agenda today. We're here to make these laws better, of course we'd all like the minimum wage to be higher and to go towards it slowly safely and on one real basis. What's important for once again is to show that this is the biggest increase ever from 504 kuna, which is 24% in the last 2 years. And some may be bothered by these positive shifts, and they should perhaps be reminded that they had the opportunity to make these shifts and bigger ones, but they missed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120309	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120310	Thank you. Dear fellow Mikulic, so I can only relate to you, of course I agree. And what I'd end up with is that we have to put every wage increase in the context of the economy, sustainability, financial opportunities, and I'm going to end up with this as the biggest increase ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120311	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the final draft minimum wage law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534 and we'll vote on the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120312	Now we move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Minimum Payment Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Ivan Lovrinović, representative Miranda Mrsic, Independent Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Nenad Stazic's representative, Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, and I would like to ask the applicant's representative to show about the amendments. Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric. First of all, on the first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120313	Thank you, Vice President HS. The amendment is not accepted. For the purpose of legal and financial security, the legislator proposed the basis for increasing the salary already established by the revision of the minimum wage law of 2017. It should be noted that this legislative proposal did not comply with the Article. 94 Labour Act, which regulates the basics of increased salary. Therefore, the legislative proposal does not call into question the right of workers to increase wages due to difficult working conditions in accordance with the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120314	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120315	Thank you, Vice President. So, our amendment, I will read it, which is what it is, reads: “The minimum wage amount, there are no increases in wages for difficult working conditions, overtime and night work, and for working on Sundays, holidays, or some other day on which the law is determined not to work. So, precisely for the purpose of security, but the workers, if there were no abuse by employers, to get into minimum wage now, something that would otherwise be additionally paid, so the actual minimum wage is less than that proposed by the government, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120316	Thank you. The next amendment is MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120317	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for this amendment are the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120318	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120319	Thank you very much. We have already warned that a minimum wage law needs to bring it into line with the Labour Act, which makes it very clear that special working conditions, the difficult working conditions, do not enter into service. And what employers do is to include difficult working conditions in the minimum wage and therefore workers have an objectively lower salary than they should have. And this is something you did again against the workers, you simply predicted that it should have been brought into line with the Labour Act and that this should have been. Why you didn't do it, it stays, mainly, it's one clamper at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system, when you were coordinating for the first time, when you defined what goes in and what doesn't get into the minimum wage, then you dropped the difficult working conditions, you could solve it now, it's just because of the political will that you don't want to accept an amendment of opposition that clearly indicates that you're doing worker damage, and you swear that the minimum wage goes to the benefit of the workers. With this, you directly damage the workers who are on the minimal. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120320	Thank you. And the next amendment is Agent Miranda Mrsic. Third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120321	The amendment is not accepted. It is evident from the content of the legal norm that the same applies to part-time and the proposed addition unnecessarily burden the norm since the proposal does not contribute to the clarity of that norm.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120322	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120323	... One test to see if, at all, we have a technical amendment that serves to make a better statement of the article because you have a vague statement, that's what legal experts tell you, that here's a technical amendment that's not even politically colored, which has nothing to do with politics, has the right and legal profession, you don't want to accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that will cause you problems in realising that when someone asks you what the article refers to. So it's not exactly what your lawyers told you, you could have consulted with those of law school who may know this technique a little bit better than people in the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. It's a miracle the Legislator's Office missed a piece like this, without this one word. Just one word, therefore, she wouldn't have complicated the article itself, so that's the addition of one word. And you can't say that now it complicates the whole article because just one word can't, it's just to make the article simpler and understand everyone and those who aren't legal professions, who are reading it because they're not all lawyers. So, here, I'm sorry you didn't accept that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120324	And the fourth amendment is Agent Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120325	The amendment is not accepted. The minimum wage within the meaning of this law shall be in accordance with the provision of the Article. 3: “The lowest monthly gross salary paid to the worker for full-time work.” Therefore, it is unnecessary to stress in further provisions that gross wages are involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120326	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120327	I think it should be emphasized because again I note that this law is read by people who are not legal professions and that it is necessary to stress that the worker is entitled to minimum gross wages. That's what people don't understand. And regardless of what would burden this perhaps text, one sentence of gross minimum wage, therefore again it is only one word, would not burden the article, but would, however, lead to the clarity needed when we talk about the minimum wage law reading and those who are not legal professions and there is also uncertainty and people do not distinguish what the minimum net wage is, which is a minimum gross salary. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120328	And the fifth amendment is Agent Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120329	The amendment is not accepted. The statement of the provision relating to the exception in question is not contrary to the obligations of employers arising from other rules governing the obligation to pay wages and wages contributions, which are subject to the Law on Contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120330	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120331	I wonder how the inspectorate will control the payment of minimum wages based on this article. Did you consult labour inspectors at the ministry when you were bringing in an article like this? Namely, this article allows, which is perfectly fine, that one who is the sole employee, and also the owner of the company should not pay himself a net minimum wage, but should pay that gross, therefore, payment of gross 1 and gross 2, because how will you account for his internship, health insurance? It turns out that he doesn't have to pay off anything, and no matter what you claim to be in other laws, this is Lex specialis, this is the law that's minimum wage law, and it's above those laws that you're now calling upon, and what's going to happen to you? That simply according to this article of the Law, those who are the only employees, who are members of the administration, so all that the Law says, will not pay their own minimum wage, will not pay their contributions, and no one will be able to pay them anything, as it says in the Law, here is very clear that they are not obliged to pay their net, pay their wages. Here we added one word again, the net minimum wage, so he doesn't have to pay himself what goes to him, but he has to pay the contributions. According to this article of the Law, he doesn't have to pay any contributions, this is Lex Specialis State Secretary. According to this, the labour inspector can't order someone to pay off a gross one, to pay a gross one and a gross two to the state. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120332	The 6th amendment is also a representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120333	The amendment is not accepted. This legislative proposal did not provide for a different treatment of employers who are bound by the collective agreement with extended application, compared to the proposal for an agent to prescribe an exception and related to the general right of workers to minimum wage, we believe that the same would be a worse legal solution for targeted employers and workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120334	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120335	The Ministry of Labour and the Government swears on social dialogue and collective bargaining, and I wonder what you swear if you do not want to accept this amendment to the Minimum Payment Act? In some cases, the Collective Treaty sets out different minimum salaries than those laid down in this Law. Since this is Lex specialis, then he's above the Collective Contract, and this article allows the minimum wage to be paid on those collective contracts. When we talk about an extended Collective Contract, it means that social partners, employers and trade unions have agreed, for example, that the minimum wage in construction is 3500 kuna. Minister of Labour, I was the minister of work, who extended the Collective Treaty to all, therefore, also those small employers who have 4 or 5 workers. Without this article, they will pay the minimum wage the government has set, so gross 3,000 kuna, and no one can force them, no labour inspector, no one to pay for the collectively extended contract, because this is Lex specialis again, they will cut the workers off. Again with these cut-off workers, and it has already become constant, you swear to the workers, the workers of this, the workers of that, and you deny them that they have a higher minimum wage than the one prescribed by the state, if the trade unions and employers agreed in the case of an extended collective contract. And I don't see any reason why you refused to do it, only with the aim of, well, taking care of employers who don't want to pay minimum wage according to an extended collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120336	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120338	The 7th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the Power Force.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120339	The amendment is not accepted. In the light of the amendments, the applicant merely states that the provision of the Law lays down an annual increase in minimum wages and does not specify reasons, neither an analytical basis, nor any argument as to why exactly 15% of the increase is proposed, so it is not possible to accept the proposal for any introduction, I quote: "hard formulas", especially for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120340	On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120341	Thank you, Chairman. Of course it's not a question of formula here, we've elaborated a lot of stuff, I don't know how many thick documents, so it hasn't, uh, warmed the heart of the ruling majority. I'll just tell you briefly, so we can elaborate, but here it is, so these measures that you're proposing, they're not enough. We have here proposed 15% annually in the next 5 years, in order to remain competitive at all, in order for Croatia to be able to give some hope, some kind of projection towards the future for workers. It's not happening right now. If you compare wages with us, and average, and minimum, and by sectors compared to the countries our citizens are going to, it is clear that we will not be able, as far as wages are concerned, to keep them. There must therefore be serious wage increases, which, through the Law, we would say some kind of intervention, and what about those market methods that are actually unique, unique and sustainable. In that context, I ask that this amendment be accepted. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120342	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. The 8th Amendment is the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120343	The amendment is not accepted. Neither the applicable Law nor the Proposal for a Law are prescribed a minimum wage adjustment mechanism, it was assessed that the consultation process with the social partners and then the proposal for a minimum wage by the Minister responsible for the work remains an acceptable solution to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the new Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120344	On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120345	If I understand, it's an amendment to Article 5 of the Law. So, Minister, excuse the secretary of state, this, that's the problem, so the mechanism has to exist. We've mostly heard bids here in the debate. This Law does not determine minimum wage, but it should just create mechanisms, how we will get to that salary. And what needs to be clear to the citizens here, we're targeting a moving target. If the prime minister says he is, I don't know what percentage he said, 45% or 44% is now the minimum salary of the average salary. But the average salary is moving in time, and our goal is to reach 50% somewhere, and when are we going to get there? That's what the physical laws say, the very meaning of that amendment. I'm sorry you didn't accept it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120346	Thank you. The 9th amendment is also Mrsic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120347	The amendment is not accepted by the legislative proposal and it shows that the same system of minimum wage arrangements is maintained through the laws and regulations on minimum wage levels that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings for each calendar year. It is therefore not possible to accept the proposal for any reintroduction of automation from which it gave up in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120348	Dear Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120349	The completely wrong reasoning of Madam Secretary is, therefore, not giving up on automation, but the projection and desire of the government that always swears it's for workers, that the minimum wage comes in 2021 to 50%. Although you do not have that goal set out in the law, you will not reach it because you have not reached it now. The current minimum wage is 44% of the average salary in Croatia. Last minimum wage at the beginning, so at 12 months 2017 it was 43%, now that we compare minimum wage and average salary in Croatia at 12 months, you know how much your minimum wage fell, you dropped to 38%, now. And that's what's gonna happen in 2019. Therefore, when you were setting minimum wage now, then you had to project it that it would be in 12 months 2018. 45%. It's not going to be at 12 months 45%, it's going to be somewhere if there's a salary growth rate like this, and it's going to grow, it's going to be around 35%. And if you don't have the goal of it being 50%, you've established this famous commission that would aim to say that 50% of 2021 and it has to grow so much and so much that in the 12th month of 2021 it's 50%. So, you didn't do anything with the fact that you've raised so much of what you're boasting about, because she's going to end up with 2019 to be 35%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote. [[Intruder: Ask for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120350	Thank you. The 10th Amendment is the representative of Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120351	The amendment is not accepted, the level of minimum wage is not determined by the law but by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the legislative proposal shows that it retains the minimum wage system through the laws and regulations on the minimum wage of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for each calendar year. Therefore, it is not possible to accept the proposal for any introduction, quote: “Stretched formulas, especially without previous thorough and comprehensive analysis of the situation, as well as key opinions, opinions of all social partners.”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120352	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120353	Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, I am not pleased and I am disappointed with the government's response that you conveyed. This shows that the previous governments and the current government are currently leading as a key part of economic policy as minimal as possible in Croatia, because they believe this is a key reason for attracting foreign investment in Croatia. So let's remember how the Prime Minister said that people in Africa have no idea, that we have no idea how people live in Africa and that we should be satisfied. The party Change Croatia is a party of serious people, so we conducted serious analyses and arguments you know that I never talk without a clue, so I'm going to give you some reasons now. But to read what we asked, to the workers, to let the citizens hear. So here's the proposal for our amendment, it reads. The minimum wage shall be determined once a year, no later than 31 October of the current year for the following calendar year. The level of minimum gross salary cannot be below 60% of the average gross salary for the previous year in the Republic of Croatia published by the State Statistics Office. You see, if this government and the next government are going to fix 60%, it's going to be a message to young people, workers who are working now, you're going to have security in this country. If it doesn't take longer, they'll be leaving this beautiful country. And what is the policy of this government and those that were before, that every year 50, 100 kunas, 150 kunas raise by only them known criteria and that drives people out. We do not want such a policy anymore, we do not want such a policy in Croatia and only new people who will lead a new economic policy can achieve a long term for workers to be protected, not to depend on political structures as they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120354	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote? A colleague of Lovrinović's, yes. The 11th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120355	The amendment is not accepted in the context of a broader debate on the new Minimum Payment Act, it is estimated that harmonisation is once a year a good legal solution adapted to opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is also assessed and justified to maintain a minimum wage system through the laws and regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120356	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120357	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, dear secretary of state, I think that this approach, which is represented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is very archaic and I believe that we live in a dynamic economic time, and especially in times that will vary in the near future of turbulence as regards infotor movements, and also in terms of changes in the capital market. Therefore, our amendment is very clear, which includes the CP index, which is to suggest that the minimum salary for 2019 and each subsequent calendar year is adjusted twice a year from what I have explained, and the basis is the increase in the price of goods and services used for personal consumption measured by the consumer price index or the CP index. The increase in the monthly average gross salary paid by employees of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, and the increase in employment of legal persons, with the minimum wage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article cannot be determined in the amount of less than 60% of the average gross salary per employee of the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia in the previous year and the minimum wage level, of course, shall be governed by the rule of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say it's important? Because I believe that the state as an entity is not only an anthem, a flag, a coat of arms, but it is one of the pleasures of life for the citizens. So at least we don't raise up to say 60% of the average gross salary and employed as a minimum, we're going to have a problem with people's trust with the state. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120358	Thank you. 12 amendments are to the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120359	The amendment is not accepted. From Art. Paragraph 2 shows that the tasks and methods of work of the commission are yet to be prescribed by the Minister's decision, and the issue of who is the Proposer of the Amendment here and amounts will be addressed as part of that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120360	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120361	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, for the first time, the commission is being introduced, I think, by example, in the UK, it was one of the motives, an independent body, which is therefore the essence of the story of not being a political decision but of being a professional decision of the commission that according to the legal provision is in charge of analysing and monitoring the minimum wage system. And if the commission analyzes and monitors, then if she doesn't actually have some key role, and here you say the minister, the minister will determine the composition of the commission and the minister will also determine their fees, if that, and the government's reform plan is to reduce the number of agencies and other bodies that are unnecessary, then the State Statistics Office can also do this, if we will. In that sense, introducing a committee that will not have a clearly prescribed task is pointless, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120362	13 amendments are also a club of independent MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120363	The amendment does not accept the argument is the same as for Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120364	On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120365	Thank you. The Honorable State Secretary, therefore, although the argument is the same, but the essence, is not the same. The Commission should therefore collect data and therefore propose a minimum wage level. If it's because what's going on? The minister appoints a commission, the minister determines the fees and then the minister submits the commission to the minister's salary and he says he does not want to accept it, because it is more politically convenient for the salary to be 4000, 5000 kn. And the commission calculated that it should be 29.99.99 and then it's more convenient to be 3000. In that sense, this amendment is going to respect the committee's opinion, to make it or to have the minister explain why he did not accept the commission's position, which is the essence, I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120366	Thank you. 14 amendments are representatives of Nenad Stazic, he is not here, so, first of all, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120367	The amendment is not accepted, such a solution has taken place in the legislative proposal in the context of a broader debate on the new Minimum Payment Act, primarily through consultations with experts and leading to examples of good practice by other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120368	Thank you. We should vote anyway, as soon as there are no MPs, we will vote on that. The 15th Amendment is the Club of Independent Representatives, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120369	The amendment is not accepted, this is what we consider to be the basis for possible abuses, while it is therefore entirely certain to affect legal and financial uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120370	Dear Representative Sagar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120371	Dear Secretary of State, this is how it becomes completely different angles from which we look at this issue. In fact, in this amendment, the essence of the entire mechanism of setting minimum wages in the Republic of Croatia is seen. So, one system that allowed a minimum wage worthy of life, as the minister said, but not out of $3,000. This mechanism allows the commission to say in the Republic of Croatia, the minimum wage can be 5000 kn. Because there are employers who pay minimum wage, and at the same time they pay themselves big profits. This should be prevented, it's abuse, not this situation where you say someone will go to minimum wage and cut even more minimum wages for some other reasons, because then there's the labour inspectorate to check it out. The amendment is aimed at those who are really in difficulty, which can determine who is in difficulty. That if you determine, that the state will also determine a minimum wage of 5000 kn, and only those who are really in difficulty, that they can pay a salary lower than that salary, but according to precisely defined procedures. And that was the point, and not at all what direction the government assessed it in. So when it was spoken here in the debate, it personally bothered me as a man because it was the worst form of pulsism. And what the minister said was scandalous and then the MPs said 4000, 5000, 6000 is fine, but it should be a clear procedure, when the commission says it can be paid, those who don't want to pay it, and they need a pillar of shame, and those who can't be less, but there are justifiable reasons. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120372	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120373	Final proposal of the Minimum Payment Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 534, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinović, representative Miranda Mrsic, Club of Independent Representatives, SDP Representatives Club, Nenad Stazic representative, Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, the amendments have been made at the beginning of today's session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. It's the first amendment to SDP's Club of Representatives, so the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment by MP Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3, the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4, re-legislator Miranda Mrsic, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 5th amendment of the same representative was not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number six, the same representative, was not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number seven, "Living Wall Representatives' Club" and "SNAGA" was not accepted, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 8, Club of Independent Representatives, not accepted by the motionary, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 9, MP Miranda Mrsic, did not receive the proposal's support. He didn't even get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10, representative Ivan Lovrinovic, does not accept the proposal. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11, the SDP Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12, Club of Independent Representatives, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 13 of the Independent Representatives Club was not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14, Representative Nenad Stazic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment by the Independent Representatives Club, number 15, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120374	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. We are looking for a break for additional consultations because you refused the SDP's proposal to make a minimum wage in Croatia amounting to 4000 kuna net monthly. 4,000 kunas net monthly is minimum survival, although you claim 3,000 kunas are worthy of a man's life. Try to survive with 3,000 kunas, because the survival of 3000 kuna is called the art of survival. On the other hand, you can see how hypocritical and boastful you are, while you give people crumbs through a ridiculous increase in minimumers in Croatia, you forgive the debts of directors to the rich and for those 15,000 of the richest raise wages. Among other things, the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, and the President of the Government, Plenkovic, from 21,000 to 25000 kuna, and at the same time there is no end to your haughtiness, because you have hired more than 4000 members and members of the HDZ in public service, because the Prime Minister has employed half of his family at Dubrovnik airport, because the Minister of Finance Marić's sister may at the moment from the sector at HANFI, who is in charge of Agrokor, writes to him a positive report about Agrokor, where he, and the Prime Minister, is directly involved, and while you are giving pensioners a bitter fate through the reduction of pensions, through the fact that she will have fewer pensions and live even harder, while deliberately shutting down shipbuilding and forcing workers on the road because there is an attractive land that has been targeted due to the construction of the marinas and hotels. You have to understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120375	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved, even if you mention the numbers, I don't know where they came from. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120376	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I demand a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to reaffirm once again what extraordinary efforts the government has made to raise the right to those who receive the least. So, talking about everything and everything, not just talking about a minimum salary, not talking about talking to those who pay the salary is simply unserious, because look, it's not just a minimum salary for 300 kuna per 3000 kuna, you pay, when you pay a pension of 750 kuna, so 50% health contributions, that's another 309 kuna, then you have 4059 kuna labour costs. Now the question is, are they, unfortunately, able to pay such a salary in labour-intense economic branches? Is when you talk to them, then you have to think about keeping those jobs and I am honestly surprised by some colleagues from the SDP who come from County who have working intensively, this, economic branch, that ten years ago when the Minimum Salary Act was passed, when the government adopted it, but after 3 months the request came from the union and from the people from the economic branches, textiles, leather and wood, that unfortunately they were unable to pay such wages, and if that happens, that they were asked to exclude it. So, the government is in agreement with the HUP, in the conversation and with the unions, the union normally that it's never enough for them, will always ask for more, has come up with an optimal solution that they,... What time do they pay the lowest wages in the Republic of Croatia, be able to pay minimum wage, be able to function normally and save jobs, because if you pay for something that is not earned, you know where it leads you?, to failure, and unfortunately in its near and further history, there is a lot of what, which can serve as an example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120377	Thank you. He approves a break to the HDZ Representatives' Club. I've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120378	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, as counterpart Schuker said he was asking for a break to consult again on the efforts made by the HDZ government, so today there is no vote on the efforts made by the HDZ government, so it was not possible,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120379	Come on, let's clap.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120380	And well, Mr. Shuker has, has, uh, big palms, no, so, you don't vote on it, so you shouldn't have granted him a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120381	Well, then, then, then, we'll only grant a 10-minute break to the SDP's Club of Representatives on a perfectly reasoned request for a break, and the HDZ Representatives' Club, according to the guidance of my colleague Maras, will not approve No warning. [[- What about the warning? And the warning?]] 14.55 hours. Session interrupted at 14.45 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.55 HOURS]] I ask you to take your seats to proceed with the vote. Please, everyone who wants to vote, take your seats. There is a final proposal for a minimum wage law, and I am voting on the final proposal for a minimum wage law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 ZA, 18 U.S.S.A. and 2 A.S.A., have passed a minimum wage law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120383	Dear MPs and MPs based on Article 247 I propose that we unite the debate on the following three points, that is: - Proposal for a law on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism, first reading, P.Z. No. 462; - Proposal for a membership law in tourist communities, first reading, P.Z. No. 463; - Proposal for a tourism tax law, first reading, P.Z. No. 464; Is anyone against it? Great, so we're uniting three points of the agenda. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism on All Three Points of the Agenda. The minister is with us, so we welcome him. And does Minister Gary Cappelli want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120384	Dear MPs and MPs, so today we have this package of laws, I would like to start from the first, and this is the proposal for a law on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism. So the Croatian tourism development strategy by 2020 has set up a redesign of tourist communities' systems and build the efficiency of the tourist destination management system. Therefore, above all, the system of tourist communities needs to be revised and rationalised, not only for the implementation and the same strategy as we talked about by 2020, but also for increasing its overall effectiveness, especially at regional and local level, in order to ensure all conditions for the systematic implementation of destination management tasks, and to ensure a sufficient source of funding. Some of the fundamental changes in the bill are the following, the establishment of a system of tourist communities, according to the model destination management. So, according to all the countries in our environment that most of these countries have already introduced this system, we now have a final example, and the other day we also had a guest director of the Japanese Tourist Board, who said that in 2015 they introduced a copy trap of this system of tourist communities and the system essentially destination management organizations. In this context, therefore, the system of tourist communities is re-structured through association and rationalisation within the system, with the application of the principles of financial self-sufficiency, in a way that promotes association, encouraging the association of communities as the establishment of tourist communities for the area of several units of local self-government, i.e., regional self-government, through the allocation of financial resources for this association. The tasks of local tourist communities are defined exclusively as operational and include product development, information, research and distribution. The tasks of the regional, therefore, regional management of the organisation are focused on operational activities, but with certain strategic elements through 4 basic task groups. It is strategic planning, development, management of the tourism system itself information and research, and marketing, as one of the most important. The tasks of the Croatian tourist community, as a national tourist community, therefore, create a brand, are therefore focused on primarily marketing, branding and promotion of tourism at national level along with systems outside the Republic of Croatia, which is 17 offices outside Croatia. Therefore, the possibility of determining the president of the local and regional tourist community from the steep municipal chief or mayor, i.e. or mayor, until now one of them or their deputy had to be, can now be transferred to some of the members of the tourist community, not only must it be explicit, if the mayor or mayor wants to be someone else, it doesn't have to be him or their deputy, but someone they can delegate, but must be from the system of the tourist community I speak from the congregation, if it's easier to understand. The time limit is limited to the period during which the president of the tourist community can represent the tourist community in the event that the tourist community has not chosen the director, we reduced it to 6 months. for the reason that at this point we have almost 70 tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia, which have no place to be., in a way that promotes association, encourages the association of communities as the establishment of tourist communities for the area of several units of local self-government, i.e., regional self-government, through the allocation of financial resources for this association. The tasks of local tourist communities are defined exclusively as operational and include product development, information, research and distribution. The tasks of the regional, therefore, regional management of the organisation are focused on operational activities, but with certain strategic elements through 4 basic task groups. It is strategic planning, development, management of the tourism system itself information and research, and marketing, as one of the most important. The tasks of the Croatian tourist community, as a national tourist community, therefore, create a brand, are therefore focused on primarily marketing, branding and promotion of tourism at national level along with systems outside the Republic of Croatia, which is 17 offices outside Croatia. Therefore, the possibility of determining the president of the local and regional tourist community from the steep municipal chief or mayor, i.e. or mayor, until now one of them or their deputy had to be, can now be transferred to some of the members of the tourist community, not only must it be explicit, if the mayor or mayor wants to be someone else, it doesn't have to be him or their deputy, but someone they can delegate, but must be from the system of the tourist community I speak from the congregation, if it's easier to understand. The time limit is limited to the period during which the president of the tourist community can represent the tourist community in the event that the tourist community has not chosen the director, we reduced it to 6 months. for the reason that at this point we have almost 70 tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia, which do not have a director. Some even 2-3 years and I think it's just more, these tourist communities obviously for some reason, or they don't want to have a director anymore, or they don't want to operate on that system so that it should work for that reason we propose that deadline. Limiting the share of the costs for gross wages, on this point, we propose that it be 30%, however, we will see during the debate itself and your proposals, I think we can see more about it, because, a large part of the tasks from the Croatian Tourist Board, from national, tourist reorganisation and local transitions to the regional and will probably need and give maybe more power in terms of the regional tourism organisation. As for the important things and the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, they did not change one 10-year proposal for a new law, we know that this is a one-way parafiscal imposition and there have been a lot of words in this House and this House, therefore, the last 2-3 mandates to even be abolished because it is treated as a purely parafiscal imposition, but 90% of practically membership funds are financed by the continental especially Slavonian County and this di-continent. Therefore, reducing or abolishing this part would likely close 70% or 80% of the tourism communities on the continent. Therefore, in order to ensure the material conditions for the implementation of the modified range of businesses of certain levels of tourist communities, it is necessary to regulate the distribution of tourist membership funds in a different way. That is, to change the current allocation of funds. In order to reduce non-taxation rates for the calculation of membership fees, it was systematically reduced over 3 years, so it was '15. It decreased by 5, and then '16 by 5, first 15, and then 5, which certainly led to a certain economic discharge, and for tourism communities in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, as I said already, membership is one of the main revenues. The papers introduced by these laws, which will simplify the process of calculating membership fees and submitting tourist community forms, will create a better business environment and administrative redundancies of operating costs. Some of these basic applications in the law are, tourist classes are abolished, and membership rates will no longer be determined depending on the tourist class. The rate is decreasing, we have so far had 28 even billing rates, we are reducing them by just 5 feet, the part of the payment of the membership fee is deleted, the payment of the membership fee is deleted for 21 activities. And part of the bond is reduced by coverage. Therefore, reducing unwary giving and reducing administrative burden on the economy. The bonds of payment of membership fees also become banks, which were not so far, but of course only in one part, these are revenues from fees and fees, the potential revenue from membership fees would be somewhere in that segment of over 7 million kn. Special attention has been paid to undeveloped areas, so legal and natural persons carrying out activities in assisted areas, namely 1-4 groups, will pay membership fees reduced by 205. The tenants and OPGs submit a simpler TZ form, I can tell you that the reason for the complicated TZ patterns was that even 50% of those who had to pay the membership fee, and that is exactly one part of both OPGs and private tenants, did not pay for the reason that they could not fill out the forms. The tenants therefore submit a simple form in the future and pay the membership fee in the flat-rate amount, the possibility of delivering the data in the basis for the calculation of the membership fee via the e-tax system is introduced. The papers concerning the distribution of tourist membership funds are also the following, and that is 2% of the funds are allocated to the special account of the Croatian Tourist Board for projects and programmes of the associated tourist communities. Regional tourist communities get more funding, new laws get 15%, so far they get 10%. The Croatian tourist community gets less funding, the new law gets 20% as part of the task moves to the regional. All of these, we're totalling about $11 million worth of economies. It is important to point out that because of the changes in the way the tourist membership is calculated and the efficiency is increased, total income will not be reduced which is important for the reasons of the more quality collection of funds, and what I have said from forms to all other documents and flat-rates that have so far not been able to pay. The residence tax law has not been significantly amended since the adoption of 2008. The proposal for a new law regulating the system of tourist communities will make the tasks of tourist communities different and different. As with the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, in order to ensure material conditions for the implementation of the modified range of jobs, individual levels of tourist communities should therefore be arranged in a different way to allocate the resources of tourism income. One of the main characteristics of the bill's proposal is decentralisation in decision-making, i.e. decision-making is descending to regional and county level. So the height of the tourist tax is no longer brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but by the County Assembly or the City Assembly of Zagreb. The Minister brings a minimum and maximum amount of tourist tax to the Regulation, and within the minimum and maximum rates, the County Assembly of a given County or City Assembly of the City of Zagreb determines the amount of tourist tax according to the previous opinion of local tourist communities. If the County Assembly does not bring it in, then the least adopted by the Minister's Regulation is treated. Special attention was therefore monitored in undeveloped areas, the development index from the first to the fourth group has a discount, hence a 30% reduction in tourism. Part of these funds belonging to the local tourist community, so up to a maximum of 25%, can be used, that is, novelty, to finance projects that are of exceptional importance and the Council of the Tourist Board makes a decision on this. Nautistics can pay the tourist tax, even at night, and on the cobwebs which has not been the case so far, and it is new that until now the vessel has paid more than 5 metres, and now from 7th to 7th, so that's where the corrections have been made. The newspapers concerning the distribution of tourist tax systems are the following, so 2% of the funds are being allocated again to the special account of the Croatian Tourist Board for projects and programmes of the associated tourist communities, so to encourage association. Regional tourist communities are getting more funding, so by now they've got 10, now they're going to get 15%. Croatian tourist community decreases from 20 to 25. The newspaper is in the distribution of tourist tax from nauticals, there is a complete change. So 65% of local tourist communities, they've been getting 40% so 25% more decentralised and going to local level. The regional tourist communities did not get that, i.e. they had 10% so far, now they get 15%. The Croatian tourist community has received 25 so far, gets 20, and the National Parks are erasing the 10% they have received so far. Here I wanted only in short lines, therefore, to give one introduction, of course, that, from the day we are both working group, and through all associations, and therefore the commission that has been discussing it, and all together, of course, that we ourselves have seen that this debate will certainly give good, quality suggestions and hopefully together we will pass a quality law that will go in, I say if we can compete with all other countries in our environment, because at this point I believe that this step is very much needed for Croatian tourism, so I hope that we will find a model that we also find some things if we need to reciprocate and be in the interest of Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120385	Thank you. To your exposure, we have eight replicas. He is his first colleague, Lalovac, followed by his colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no doubt this package of laws has some good, there are some good sides, especially when you have now made this different and redistribution. I personally and welcome this part of you that you announced that one part of the bank's revenues related to fees and fees, that part, that part will be accounted for and they will be paid, but I just don't understand whether it will be on the total fees, because they amount to about 4 billion kuna, or only to exchange jobs, their transactions that are tied up, and perhaps only in that part of the clarification. And secondly, when you were talking about promoting Croatian tourism and financing of tourist communities, so this is more of a question, meaning no criticism to you, but just to try to answer about the financing of tourist communities on the continent, we are aware today of the great migration consequences of the continent, and opening up the issue of the former CRO card, because I must admit it... I read in the media that this part of the project didn't come back to life, so I'm asking your comments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120387	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. A colleague of Lalovec's, a colleague of Lalovec's, thank you. You can do it individually. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120388	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Lalovac. He's going on commissions, so he's going, he's not going to go all together, we've calculated somewhere that about 7 million, 7.5 million should have been income from what's been gone so far. As far as the CRO card is concerned, it is still in the plan and I think that we will introduce it with, in 2020, it will certainly give additional life to the continent, but through the underdeveloped, we will, therefore, give life to the County itself, that is, to the regional self-government to decide practically on the total amount that is allocated to the undeveloped, therefore from the tourist tax, and therefore from the tourist membership the funds, so far it has been practically around 11 million with the underdeveloped divisions, at this point we think that we will be the total, so the amount that is somewhere around 30 million can be implemented through the competition and therefore will be more concerned with the regionals that best know their needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120389	Thank you. The next replica, counterpart Djujic, followed by counterpart Djujic, a colleague of Alfirev. Here's a colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120390	Thank you, Vice-President, respected ministers with your associates, in your opening section you called for a tourism development strategy by 2020 and that essentially this whole package is being brought in to implement the strategy itself. I will in my individual debate highlight the positive side of these changes, as well as those things that I think might need to change. But I would now ask you if you can answer me, in that same strategy it said that tourist workers or people working in tourism are guaranteed, let's say tax stability for at least 5 years, and at the beginning of their term of office, the government raised VAT on catering by 100%, from 13% to 25%, which was contrary to the tourism development strategy by 2020. I am now interested in the fact that we are also growing GDP and that the economic picture in the country is much better, do you think that there is room for as soon as possible to return that VAT to the catering industry to some 13% and facilitate business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120391	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120392	Thank you, Your Honor, this government has relieved the economy of fiscal opportunities and will reduce VAT on tourism in 2020. to catering services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120393	Thank you. The next is counterpart Alfirev, after counterpart Alfirev, a colleague of Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120394	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. So you seem to me there are some things that somehow don't make sense in this billing and writing, because you are referring to a strategy and you're assuming, I guess before writing this proposal, you've asked your people on the ground, so all the directors of the tourist communities. And the fact is actually quite different, that here in Sibenik-Knin County you have tourist communities places, 5.5 of them there are tourist communities of places that are against this kind of bill, because these are therefore tourist communities that are most simply liquid by their financial status and are extremely recognized in their activities in their local community, in their tourist offer and are in fact completely unclear. This intensity of your shutting down these [[Intruder: Thank you.]] tourist communities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120395	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120396	Thank you esteemed MPs, so I expected this question, of course, is visible in the law that the problem is these, it seems to me that 15, because the intensity of this law, otherwise this law and everywhere in Europe, is the intensity of the functioning of the strongest tourist communities i.e. National tourist communities and all those on the ground are association. And not that in, according to this system, it could happen that in Zagreb, ten settlements are separated wherever they are, wherever they bring incomes, so we didn't exactly want to come to that, we wanted a merger because it's easier once, one entire 5 counties or 5 cities to present on the market than in every place. So the intensity was exactly, like everywhere in Europe, to join together in this way, not to let certain parts of the city go their own way because there are enough hotels in this area to be able to be self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120397	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Panenic, followed by counterpart Panenic, co-worker Curaj. Here you go, pal Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120398	Thank you, well-respected ministers, since the proposal lists a regional organisation, whether we have finally moved away from the concept of the county tourist community, I see that such communication has opened up one, whether it is the county tourist community or whether it is really what we want certain areas that may have over the county's designated range, that they recognize the common interest, that they form it, that we do not stay in these political frameworks, but that we are really in professional need, that professional relations where it is truly recognised means compatible areas that may sometimes also be administrative, political borders, unsettled. So it happened to us that in fact a certain presentation, here you just mentioned at a fair, two tourist communities representing the county in the same way. I think that's where it is if we're going in that direction, then I can say it's commendable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120399	Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120400	Thank you, Mr. Representative, so tourism hardly recognizes the very borders of the county is very difficult to treat because then you have a case of cyclotourism from one county then is the border so there is no further, because they say they would not want to do cyclotourism they deal with hunting. For these reasons, we through Article 5 made it clear what the county is, which is regional, but basically just in the county there was a good case. We are now working on a strategy for the development of the county region, the region of 5 counties in Slavonia, which we are currently working on a common strategy, to promote together exactly on foreign markets as you have mentioned. It is the same thing that Imotska krajina, 8 cities, 8 municipalities 1 city, do the same thing for Gorski kotar, so this is the point where some cities from the sea will be presented together with cities on land, so it does not recognize, it is very difficult to recognise borders, but we will go towards association towards regional developments, promotions and presentations on foreign markets in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120401	Thank you, the next replica is my colleague Curaj, after him, my colleague Bulj. Here's your friend, Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120402	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, for this very subject of association, I think that this is an example not only positive in terms of the Ministry of Tourism, but in general. So we must always give the right choice when we make any laws, given what is on the ground. So here and here, we don't prescribe that someone has to be joined, we just give the opportunity and we encourage it. In particular, Osijek-Baranja County has had a special Baranja Tourist Board for many years. So the city of Beli Manastiri has the other 6.7 municipalities, but they have recognized there for a long time that they have their own, this destination management, microlocation and I think in a way that is exactly encouraging, and we will surely get to stop these administrative boundaries from being any obstacles to the development of tourism, and in fact only to break them apart in terms of supporting both associations and administrative and above all real on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120403	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120404	Thank you very much. So you noticed, so this association isn't necessarily an informal association, we have the means, the commission will decide whether these associations, they have a reason to pay off, whether to go together, whether to promote either any other or any other interest found by two counties or one county and the city, so all possible combinations exist if they find the interest of joint association, I say, and they will get additional funds. So our intensity is association, cost reduction, administration and all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120405	Thank you. The next replica is my colleague Bulj and after him, my colleague Mikulic. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120406	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the tourist community would be the purpose of promoting Croatia in tourism. Our greatest potential is at present with what we have is our landscape and our continent. I think very little in this regard Croatia is using regardless of GDP is 18%. I will now ask you these questions in the individual debate about the laws where the tenants are damaged, I have even given tax reform a letter to the constitutional court to see the constitutionality of this reform, but the key question that I am interested in is because today we see that our owners were down there, our representatives of the authorities accept the Marrakech Agreement, whether there is a Ministry of Tourism at this point, the assessments that can be made by the Marrakech Agreement on tourism of the Republic of Croatia because we know what it means for the Republic of Croatia if we accept it, do you have any judgments and damages that can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120407	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120408	Your Honor. At this point, we have all the data that we have and are very precise, Croatia's tourism next year expects to grow again, somewhere between 3 and 5%, so at this point there is no harm that this agreement is supposed to do to Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120409	Thank you. The following is counterpart Mikulic, after counterpart Mikulic, a colleague of Zagar who is the last. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120410	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here is my question regarding the Law on Tourist Taxes, I am interested in whether the introduction of a tax or a cruise tax on river circular journeys would enable the arrival of tourist communities which essentially bear responsibility for the development and promotion of tourist products and do not generate income based on the results they possibly achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120411	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120412	Your Honor, I thank you beyond question. As far as I know, there are over 200 bumps in the Vukovar Cruise area somewhere, and I'm sure that's quite interesting. We have a little bit of an obstacle to the views of cities and which are at sea and which are on the rivers, but I think it's still a very open item and more to go in that direction to charge therefore a tourist residence fee and I hope that between the two readings we can agree on but I say, they're still a little bit of an obstacle position but I hope we agree, I'm personally for that to be charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120413	Thank you. And last replica, here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120414	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, let's now explain to Slavonca, perhaps I don't understand it well, where the tourist tax paid to the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, if there are regional, local tourist communities and HTZ and it is the ratio. So it's paid in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. If you come to me in Slavonia, you have a house there and you have to pay the fee as well. Did I get that right? If that's the case, then everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120415	I think... There's a need, there is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120416	Croatia is all under tourist tax, so it only has to be paid regardless of how you came to the area of one county, depending on where you stayed in the hotel and there within that arrangement, you pay a tourist tax or whatever it is you call, what is easier, a tourist tax as you once did, and it is paid according to that price list which, depending on which season, everything is determined now by the rule that we will do after the adoption of the law and not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120417	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac and a colleague of the Greeks? If not, then I'm opening a debate, so the united three points of the agenda. First on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, colleague Giovanni Sponza, please welcome colleague. 15 minutes, is that okay with all the clubs or do you want 20? Okay, 15, here we go. I like that by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120418	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The parties that make up our club of representatives come from Istria and the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, two regions that carry 50% of Croatian tourism, in terms of overnight stays, so in terms of the revenues achieved, the representatives of our county from Istria, towns and municipalities, large hotel and tourist community systems, so those who carry 30% of Croatian tourism, held a number of coordinations and consultations on which all the actors agreed in their positions and proposed solutions for this set of tourism laws, however, no single proposal by the promoters was accepted, all taken into account, in other words and in this case, the profession was completely ignored. As for the problems of tourist communities in underdeveloped areas, our club finds it important that small tourist communities do not shut down, to strengthen themselves, especially financially and for two reasons. The first to which the most developed tourist regions have no number of tourist communities located in a tourist undeveloped area and others because all coastal counties have the same ratio of developed and undeveloped TZs. According to this proposal, the allocation of funds from underdeveloped funds is allocated according to an indexation taking into account the number of undeveloped units of local self-government in the county, compared to their total number and the underdevelopment index. This bill reduces the funds allocated to TZ located in a tourist undeveloped area, and it also specifically means in the coastal counties, so those who contribute most to the development of Croatian tourism and unfortunately, as in a number of other laws repeat the practice of punishing those who work and who are successful and re-enhancing inequality between different parts of Croatia, and instead of working towards developing and underdeveloped areas reaching those developed, and already developed areas to further advance towards European standards of development, we put here, obstacles to those developed. Unfortunately, on this occasion, I would like to point out that this government in its work so far has shown that tourism is always and beneficial only when it needs to be praised for certain figures, which are primarily due to people who are engaged in tourism, but when concrete legal measures need to encourage the development of tourism, or as is the case with VAT in catering, measures are inadequate, counterproductive and are actually a limiting factor in future tourism development. Furthermore, as regards the Law on Tourist Communities, we consider it a poor proposal to reduce the participation of individual members of the tourist community from 40%, it seems to me that it is now adjusted to 30% because it will further reduce the share of primarily competent tourist workers in local communities' congregations, and we all know that for the quality of the functioning of the Assembly itself, it is necessary to make decisions, but also to monitor the work of TZ participants in persons with greater experience and knowledge in the tourism domain. Namely, I had the opportunity to read from the material that the applicant argued such a proposal in order to be in the continental part of Croatia, for example. One trade chain made it impossible to manage the destination, if the promoter wanted to exclude from deciding someone who was not from the tourism sector, then it is worth listening to the voice of the profession. Therefore, we propose that the provision in question be amended in such a way that participation can have an individual member up to 40% and only if it is from the tourism sector, and unless it is then to be a limit of 25%. The novelty in the proposal for this package of laws is that additional fees and membership fees are allocated 2% to the joint tourist community fund, which would be an additional exemption from cca for Istria alone. 3.5 to 4 million kuna. We believe that Istria will hardly be able to repay all 3,5 or 4 million kunas, mostly because of the complicated and other procedure, which is based on the experience we have and we are in fact expressing doubts and we have no certainty that these additional detachments from 3.5 to 4 million kunas that Istria alone will give, Istria and return. Namely, that, as I said earlier, teaches us only experience. In addition, it should be said that Istria has been implementing a joint strategic marketing plan for more than 10 years without any involvement of the state, which is co-financed by local tourist communities, all major hotelers and agencies and that the process works without error. We therefore believe that the establishment of the fund is just one additional separation that only a few counties will give without any certainty that these funds will be able to return to those who want to pay in the fund. When we talk about the House Tax Act, and thus by determining the level of the tax, the question that opens and imposes itself is whether the Proposer has further considered what will happen in practice. I note that the new law abolishes tourism classes, that by abolishing tourism classes there is neither qualitative nor quantitative classification of tourism development by local self-government units. Secondly, as the Minister himself said in the opening letter, the regulation lays down the minimum and maximum level of the residence tax, and each unit of local self-government suggests for itself the height of the residence tax within the limits prescribed by the minister by the regulation, and the county assembly adopts proposals for the height of the tourist tax for each tourist community. And this, in practice, can also result in the following outcomes. Destinations that are Croatian tourism fins can have a minimum stay tax, e.g. Some units of local self-government within the Republic of Croatia, a destination with only a few private owners and perhaps one catering facility may have the highest amount of tourist tax. As for this set of laws, I will repeat once again that it is extremely risky to regulate the sector that accounts for 20% of Croatia's GDP, which creates every 5th kuna in Croatia, without respecting the well-intentioned suggestion of the profession and without an impact assessment. Since time allows me to do so, here I would look back and expand my debate on two important issues, which also concern the tourism sector for which far least is responsible or not at all responsible for the current minister. The first is a problem that has not been solved and that lasts for more than 2 decades, which is so-called. The status of tourism land, which is not legally settled, and I stress this because this unresolved issue today has the consequence of unnecessary long court and expensive disputes between the state on the one hand and the municipalities and cities on the other hand, which is holding back, both public and private investments, the opening of new jobs, the achievement of incomes, both for the state and for the local community. And secondly, I want to ask this rhetorically one question and I want to trouble myself, whether we are able to recognize ourselves that in previous years we have missed the chance to create content, added values for which tourists would deliberately come to Croatia, and during the period when concrete tourist countries, mostly because of their adverse security aspect, recorded the decline of total tourism traffic. I will be free to say that we are all expensive masters in missing opportunities and the previous two important issues are not resolved and that I allow myself to say mostly because of the discrepancies between the ministry and other state institutions and what is most afraid that things will not change, and that in due course, regardless of what tourism makes 20% of GDP, we will not be able to create content whether they are golfing, whether they are fields or anything else, because what initiatives are going on by the relevant ministry whether Mr. Cappelli as your predecessors, but the problem is in other institutions, other simple resolutions that simply don't understand the problem. We more than the sun and the sea can't live, if they realize it then we've done a lot, but I'm afraid and I repeat that the shift will not be almost any, if it is, it will be minimal. In fact, we cannot understand that as far as tourism and other areas are concerned, in order to be competitive, we have to run much faster than others and we run much slower, we go one step forward and two steps backwards and I wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120419	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120420	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, the respected ministers with their associates, our esteemed colleagues because we don't have a colleague. Of course, the issue of tourism is one of the key issues raised in the current economic situation of the Republic of Croatia. I can also praise the former Minister and fellow Minister and Government here, Kleman because we have worked very hard on concrete projects that need to create not only tourism, they also create an economy, create employment, and when we go through such concrete projects, when we see what is needed, it actually goes through the settings why the Law on Tourist Communities that was, should be changed. It's just that time has changed, we see that one time the well-being that we've entered into for many I'd say, more geopolitical events in some environment wider and narrower, doesn't matter that much anymore and that we're going to have to fight to preserve what we've achieved so far or that we're changing significantly to make a promotion. I have to say, here's what we've had inside the club and with the work of the profession that I've been consulting, we've got significant praises, we've got certain objections, and then I'd say here. One of the remarks, let's always find it easier with observations, is in fact somehow being warned about this centralisation, that the impact of the tourism ministry is increasing, that what has been a major task so far, the role of the HTZ General Office is being reduced, and then the question is, in fact, whether these two institutions of the ministry and HTZ will have clear functions? Are they divided enough and whether the system on the ground will follow... ? If the ministry is to monitor the development of projects that are going to take place at lower levels, where there are significant needs, monitor even development, identify where there are needs, where it is developing, then we can say that we should look for partners in local self-governments, in regional self-governments, that we will propose these projects, that we have this one vertical to know what the project, project infrastructure, project, key major projects without which, without this vertical meaning, the ministry, the county units of local self-government cannot be realised anyway, and here I have the opportunity to participate in some projects where really large capital projects must have a uniform position, they must be strategically defined. And there we often come to this, not to say conflict, but to reason between the interests of local administration, which regards a certain infrastructure at times and with its political reach from the tourist communities that see it cash in and sometimes happens that local self-government and the tourist community breathe equally but do not have the support of local tourist workers who consider it not just an investment but must be a clear concept of how it will bring income. And in Croatia we have a number of projects where we see that huge funds have been invested, the return to these funds is very slow and there is no function that happens after construction has to be a clear definition of who this location is, that project, that infrastructure promotes, who encourages, who works on it, who are real users because this is how it happened that someone who may be closer to the minister, who may be a little more up-to-date in defining their priorities, building, designing project documentation, comes to a project that is not really, even he is not aware that he is not up to it and such projects unfortunately we have a lot of. I would welcome the intensity of HTZ becoming a national tourist marketing agency if it will be even because so far we have an example, I have visited several fairs where we come to, we can practically see that Croatia is a sea tourist destination which is then somehow us who are from the continent, we do not feel that we are on the stand of our country where promotional materials, communication although it is clear to me that this is our most valuable destination that achieves the most tourist incomes but is not pleasant at a fair in Berlin to actually look for a continent that is so controversial, so we should actually see what it means, through promotion find that measure and be representative of those efforts that seem to be less attractive tourist destinations. I had a situation once when we were just talking about cyclotourism, so it turned out that the very Republic of Croatia wasn't interested, here's the minister, you mentioned it in your speech exactly that cyclotourism where for example. One Danube route that generates huge revenues in the areas that it goes through, where there are also symbiosis of different tourist projects, does not appear in us if we simply do not have a strong or attractive destination in the Danube area where the infrastructure is not adapted to us, but when we look at the distances between the northern Croatian border where this route is coming to our east, it is a relatively small area and there is no reason why we interrupt this area, that we need to talk about development in Romania and Bulgaria where they do, with all their problems, sometimes even greater efforts, to achieve what Germany, Austria and one part of what is happening in Hungary, I have seen that it was a national decision, we can say strong political, we want to be involved in this and we want to be a destination for cyclotourism. In all of this, here, I have mentioned tourist undeveloped areas, we need through this Law, if it will be directed, means that these support be concrete that the very tourist strategies that work at various levels, I have seen a number, sometimes it is a set of real desires that have no foundation. There's someone to say once, but this is realistic, it brings income, sometimes it's imaginations that are often copied from other areas, but they're simply not feasible and it doesn't have to be left to something that's defined by strategy, that's the best solution. Sometimes seeing it from one narrow area, one that doesn't have one, doesn't go on with other programs. You yourself said the key question within the Law on Tourist Communities is the question of their possible abolition if the original incomes, their incomes, I won't say original, their incomes, in fact, the salaries in their incomes are more than 30%. I am witnessing exactly the problems when absolute majority funding comes from the budget of the unit of local self-government, and we have a reflection between the position of the head of local self-government and the position of the tourist council where then the question is who will give these funds. We all know about one salary, one tourist employee needs to provide about 100,000,00 kn if so far it has been provided 100 kuna and a thousand kuna, which was the result of their own income, and that was the pay and there was a dissension or disagreement. At which city, municipal, county council or assembly will be decided, but from today on we will have, will give you 300,000,00 kn, so someone should make a decision. If we haven't worked so far, we haven't found a common language to stay your salary, I need what I've given 100 to increase to 300. There's a question actually whether to increase or demand greater efficiency. And I think there was a gap in the previous time that the control of the functions of the tourist community was insufficient, there was simply not enough monitoring, there was not enough attention to be paid to many tourist communities and some of them definitely failed and we have to say it and then me personally, so no wonder we're actually going to do something about it. In which direction it will go if that is the direction that it connects within one county tourist community, then I don't think we're going to exactly achieve that effect if my county, I see some others, have different interests, which sometimes hard to connect. Some parts of the county are more compatible perhaps with the interests of the neighbouring Osijek Baranja County. Somewhere, for example. in the posavina section, it continues on Brodska. So, I would really like to see from this development that we are going right towards these destinations and to encourage not only within the national borders of this regional roundup, but also to recognize the cross-border effects, that those projects that have been done cross-border, have teaching and traceability and we see that they can connect even more significant regions because we want to improve, we want to increase the number of visits, the number of visits from countries that come to us, in fact, visitors from distant countries, they do not often recognise the Republic as a destination, but will happen to us for example. to recognize the Danube as a destination. Where are we gonna meet here? In the fight with Vienna, Budapest, some other places, we can be an integral part of that programme, but that we will be explicitly the only destination we will come to, we would certainly make a mistake and we should really predict that we can connect through these, I would say, areas-specific regional organisations to achieve the effects. Whether the 2% you predicted from the membership fee is enough, it's according to some estimates of 12 million kunas, I'll say, I doubt, it's a little bit of a minister of money when it's distributed to all those who want to do something real and do it by connecting, then it'll be insufficient. It's always good, and I commend the intention to secure some money to connect, it's always good when you go to put restrictions, then you give incentivizing means to identify someone if we really give up one part of autonomy, on the other hand we'll achieve additional effects and we go after these means, so I would suggest that you don't think that this is fixed within that amount, because if you really manage to get that connection, not because of the lack of funds, actually, great expectations, and that you don't respond to those expectations, so sometimes, here, you yourself said this informal connection and association that would be, a little bit of asking those questions, which is, how to judge what is informal, one is informal, and then the obligation is informal, I'd prefer to hear that there's still a certain written trail of what it connects. The issue of the Supervisory Board in tourist communities, I would say that you are on a good track because a number of supervisory committees consisted of persons appointed, and they have no knowledge, neither act in the direction they need, which is the control of consumption, the control of efficiency, and then it was the eve of the assembly it was only formal that they sign something for which, once it was found that it really didn't happen, the problem. Some of them didn't even function at all, and there was no sanctioning, so these are the failures that need to be seen if eradicating the supervisory board is a good direction, you should think about it, I would rather say that so far they lacked control of what they are doing. This issue of the director's performance of his tasks has become one of the obstacles that some of the directors who ran the offices have become more difficult to change because of sometimes even the many political obstacles that arise. There should be, in my opinion, a clearer, more measurable result, that the work programme proposed, that its execution should be measured, that these should be the basis. If it's just going to be by the majority that's being created, it takes a two-thirds majority, then some executives might survive all the cataclysms that happen. I would say that one who provides them with a job, which is a tourist council, a tourist assembly, should still decide even more flexible and would suggest that 50% of the members are sufficient to make that decision. You are also being transferred to this section relating to the HTZ tourist council where it is believed that you have too much influence, that it has been greater so far, that it is actually the participation of the assembly in determining members in this way, which you are giving two suggestions from the member of the tourist council, that this is a particular direction towards politicisation or centralisation, so here is another part that would warn you. In the case of tourist fees, I would ask you to consider the flat-rate fee, especially for the OPG, because I think there will be significant needs, which capacity-fulfilment actually means problems in capacity-fulfilment and will not be able to implement such a proposal as you have postponed and will reverse it. This is your intention. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I think that here we are, the chairman should, if I may just continue, still have 20 minutes that we can [[/Intruder: colleague Panenić, I ask you nicely to finish the debate, you are out of time. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120421	We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ representative's club esteemed colleague Anton Kleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, I welcome you all. Here, on behalf of the HDZ, we will, therefore, determine that this law is supported and I would say finger up for this bill of law. Finally, finally, the finale, because this is a tourist law and we speak little and foreign languages because it is definitely this law that was waiting in the public tourist sector. As a very specific tourist country, we witnessed absolutely one big investment swing in tourism. We've raised quality, especially in hotels, camps and this commercial sector to an enviable level. Here, we are now witnessing the implementation of this recategorization, past time, we have now recently had this law at the Parliament and I think that definitely our private value sector that invests a lot in quality, which invests a lot in destinations that it deserves to get one law that will support it in their efforts to achieve the best and quality results because what our fellow Sponza said, we can't wait, we can't stand in place because the others are going, I would say much faster than we are going alone. This is one law that will certainly encourage even better thinking, an even better obligation for our tourist communities, our cities and municipalities, the county and, as you have called the region, this one, to think more about destination, to be as good as possible, to be as excellent as possible and to be better presented with all our potential advantages on the world tourism market. Like any law that's in the I.A., he has his own, more good sides than, I'd say, less good sides, but here, that's why we're discussing here in the Parliament to maybe encourage the Ministry and give some of his observations and some of his views to the law itself, and I hope that you, Mr. Ministers, will consider them and see if they agree with your concept and your policy in the ministry, will this fit in and give one, even better law than this proposal, which is here. We'll have, probably through this period between two readings a lot and consulting. We think that we have some things that can really improve, we at the HDZ Club, and I'm convinced that when this law says what is said, coloquially, roasted, we're going to be one very, very good law. But what I want to point out once again, finally, after 15 years, and in tourism it is a very, very long period, I would also point out that many colleagues and refer to our tourism strategy, so the Tourism Strategy 2020. I also thought that when I was in the ministry, it should have changed because we had achieved some goals then, we reached, not because of the public sector, but the private sector, through investment, through visions of tourism especially in major tourist systems, but here, even today we like to say that we would even laminate about it and it is past and it has been 5 years. The tourism industry is developing terribly quickly, I would say that at the level of IT industry, perhaps a little bit slower but here somewhere. In a million directions, the tourist product develops and definitely public administrations, so through a system of tourist communities it must follow. That is why it is good that this law is somehow baptized as the Law on a tourist destination where it is in its very being. But here, I'd go through that law a little bit if you'd let me, maybe comment later and comment eventually, on what we've said in these conversations. So, what is very important to say is that, through the tasks and objectives of the tourist communities, a great deal has been put into the task of the tourist communities themselves, both local and regional, and my god and HTZ. So a lot of work, a lot of responsibility, and I think that's good, and I think we should work it out a little bit better so everyone understands what his part of the job is. There may be some confusion in some articles, which I don't know if you noticed about, where they didn't clearly separate who, what or how. I think that through these articles we should solve this issue because this is, therefore, not a letter of intent, this is the law, and so I need to see myself vertical from HTZ through regional tourist communities to local tourist communities. This can happen through the law, when law enforcement comes to a problem because someone says, if you look, I don't have absolutely that situation that I can get through the vertical because you have some parts of the di said local tourist communities have to coordinate their programmes with the regional tourist community. Teacherly, it has to say that HTZ is there. You don't have that in a few places in the law, it's very important to emphasize, to feel that verticality, to feel that systematicity through that law. So, counterpart Panenic spoke earlier, thank you for your cooperation, she was really great in the past government. You said you weren't very happy with the abandonment of the supervisory boards from the bodies of the tourist communities. I'm not so sure it's a good choice, I'll tell you why. Many congregations of tourist communities are large. With many different profiles of the congregations, and I am not sure that they are the best choice to exercise control and those tasks that the congregation has done through this law to oversee the tourist community itself. It seems to me that between all of these people, three to five people in some larger ones can be five, in some smaller ones there can be three people who will recognize each other, more or less all the people in the environment know each other, they will be able to qualityly determine people who can quality control the work of the tourist community. What you've been saying is definitely true, that this surveillance has not been well done in many cases but it's not a question of the law itself, but it's a question of people and responsibilities, how they got caught up in it. So if they get caught seriously, if they're serious people that the congregation can name as a supervisory board, I think it's very good. It seems very important to me that HTZ has a special representative of this High House as it is now in the monitoring board of the tourism community itself. Someone will say it's politicization but I don't think it's because still laws like this we make in this home, we have the right to control it and see if we've made good decisions and whether the tourism community or HTZ is doing a good job. It's one proposal that ministers can or don't have to adopt but think about it, I think it'll open one width in that part. It can even be selectively solved that HTZ may have a supervisory board, these fewer should not have, a question, so all legislators can prescribe. As far as the congregation itself is concerned in Article 7 of this paragraph 3 here, I would have a little synchronised this mathematics. That half of the congregations, if they don't answer, go to the new congregation in 15 days, if there's not enough people, go to the two-thirds, so sometimes math with fewer votes can get more than through the first one. There should be some way to reconcile mathematics because that number is a little ticklish when you take this situation, half and two-thirds around this situation. I'd like you to take care of that because it's very important and the questions are congregational, therefore the highest body of the tourist community. So again in this article 15, we are talking about the Supervisory Board, etc. So as far as the tourist council is concerned, Article 17(6) states that, exceptionally from paragraph 5 of this article, the decision to resolve the directors of the tourist community makes the tourist council two-thirds of the votes of the present members of the tourist council. I think that the criteria should therefore be clearly laid down by the Director's resolution criteria, it's quite broad. So no one thinks there might be some evil blood with the director, etc. but it seems to me that because of the seriousness of the work, because of the seriousness of the director of the tourist community at all, I think it should be strongly prescribed and clearly prescribed when the director of the tourist community cannot get a solution. So, you yourself said that this, intensities of this law are depoliticization, I agree in much of the part you've made here are commendable for depoliticization, but I would pray it might be clumsyly said, but I would like an explanation for this high house as well. Article 22 is therefore defined in paragraph 4 to elect a director of the tourist community and for the longest 6 months the rights and obligations of the directors of the tourist community referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be exercised by the President of the Tourist Board. In the next paragraph, and this concerns you ministers, so that, if someone did not say what was said to you, it would be read that the restriction set out in paragraph 4 of this article would not apply to the conduct of the Croatian Tourist Board director's rights and duties by the president of the Croatian Tourist Board. I don't know if you've seen it or not, there's a situation that practically the minister in this case you, tomorrow someone else, the day after tomorrow someone else can behave two functions very important for Croatian tourism, which is the director of the Croatian Tourist Board and therefore, the Minister of Tourism in one person doesn't know how long, I don't know if I've got the whole story right. And I don't think it was an intensities to you, because you can tell from this law that you wanted to depolitize this whole story. Maybe it's a little bad that's complicated, I think in that sense I think it should just be done by this one, and it's not, it makes me not the spirit of this law like you said yourself. I'm gonna have to hurry up a little bit 'cause time's running out. So, in this article, the tasks of tourist communities say that the local tourist community can be a member of international tourist organisations based on a specific decision of the tourist council, but there is still a little more to be extended, I would say a gastro-organism and even some other sports organisations of destination management etc., etc., so perhaps there is a little expansion because there is really a lot of space opening up for this story. He would also agree with counterpart Sponzo that perhaps you should consider that maximum of 30% of the representatives in the assembly. Listen to me, we have a situation where in one destination, almost 90% of income belongs to one, one legal person, and I think it would be illogical to have only 30%, and on the other hand, small members who pay tourist membership, or a tourist tax, and then we come up with these problems that we shouldn't be. Here I am right now, not going to talk about it much, but I'd just like to say hello to your openness to consider that question, I think 30% is small. Here in those 30% and 50%, and 60% of them are just intellectual work the most involved. So, as far as we've seen from the law, there will be no more sharing of football clubs, etc. in the way it was now, so I think that intellectual work if it's built 50% into wages, it has its own justification, it has its own justification. Think about it. These 30% can be, so if you stay on this proposal and 30% can be at 2 to 3 years to 5 years therefore extended in one situation, I think there is room for conversation, that people in particular in the continental part of Croatia will be extremely pleased if we find such a solution. I would also like to say about tourist tax and tourist membership fees, it is very important that large systems pay proportionally where they make the traffic, the type of HT for tourist memberships Thank you very much. We'll deal with this in private. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120423	I thank my esteemed colleague Kleman. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120424	Thank you very much. Good evening, respected chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, somehow these laws from tourism always come to these afternoons when we are relatively few in the assembly even though we are here today even more than we were on the last set of laws, it saddens me, but it must not deprive us of the quality of our debate anyway. In front of us today, there is one in fact a package of laws in the field of tourism from one of our most significant, if not the most significant economic branches. Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, the Law on Tourist Tax and the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities all makes it one interlinked whole. This package of laws introduces really major comprehensive changes in the tourism community system at all levels of their levels and their new defined tasks and roles and methods of funding and membership. Through a conversation with the representatives of the profession, I got the impression that this is really about an extremely modern package of laws that monitors world trends in tourism development, i.e. tourism product. I mean, in particular, the concept of destination management. organization of destination management. The current system of tourist communities that exists in one way means such a form as one has been really long for years, I think it justified its existence that it was good, that Croatia would not be such a tourist force as it is today that these tourist workers and tourist communities have not worked, but however, every system if it wants to prosper, and our system of tourists definitely wants to prosper on such an extremely competitive market, I think that, I don't know which of my colleagues before me has said, I think that tourism, that it may even be that things change faster in tourism than in IT, and that there should be kept that step. So on one such market, one such product really has to change things, and I think it's a good thing that this law is now being passed and that it will bring really useful changes. This system of tourist communities shows no matter what its quality, certain weaknesses, is always about politicisation, but on the side means some kind of flat-rate assessment, it was a problem because, among other things, it was not known about what level, which level of the tourist community is in charge of which jobs, which, for example, this Law makes very clear and what I think is good for this Law to prescribe a certain level, in fact the hierarchy between local units, i.e. local tourist communities and regional tourist communities, that even at the end of the year, national tourism organisations, i.e. Croatian tourism organisations, are now accurately aware of who works and means who has to respect what guidelines and guidelines to be better managed as a whole by the Croatian tourist product as a whole. So far, the system has also been relatively irrational in some things, and maybe too much money has been spent on wages, but still it's hard, it's hard to rate it so casually, I think it should still be looked at from case to case. So, any system to improve, to make it more efficient, especially at local destination regional level, right where tourist activity is taking place, it is necessary to provide all necessary preconditions for the systematic implementation of the business of destination management. So the destination management system is one of the most important changes in this new Law on Tourist Communities, and that, so, the old one, we talked a little bit, and on the Committee, which is exactly what this destination management is, so I was trying to inform myself about it with people from the profession who explained that it was, in fact, a DMO organisation that continuously communicates and coordinates between all stakeholders in the area of a particular tourist destination. I think that's exactly what we need for the tourism community to be more involved in the adoption of strategic documents at each level of its action, meaning local, regional and national, of course. So, strategic planning, coordination, education of stakeholders, infrastructure management, superstructure and quality of tourist product, marketing and promotion of destination, statistics and databases. The law, now on this one, defines the DMO as an organisation that brings together stakeholders of the public, private and civil sector in order to strategic and operational management of the destination and to achieve a common, common previously agreed vision. So, I think it is precisely an emphasis on this common previously agreed vision, that this is exactly what needs to be concluded on, and that I think it is, that this system of controls between lower and higher levels of tourist communities is exactly what will lead to the harmonisation of this common vision, because as seen by the Law, and every level of sea, every level of tourism organisation must deliver its work programme on an annual, annual sea level, at a higher level, this higher level must be manifested. This destination management and management of tourist communities according to DMO model, is not a new concept in tourism, it has already existed for some time, both in tourism theory and in practice, and it has actually emerged in response to market needs. And I think it's good that we're following trends and I think it's a good thing that we started, that we're going now, that we've introduced such a new concept and a new one is actually a definition of the functioning of tourist communities. It still means this law knows three levels of organization, local, regional and national, we still have bodies, so the assembly, the president, the tourist council. What is there is one newspaper that you yourself said in your opening statement, therefore, that the president of the tourist community who remains an ex-lege head of the local self-government unit or in the case of regional, mayor, will still appoint someone else's power. However, I must admit, here I would not say that this is criticism, but one such thinking, I see some exaggeration in that, since this means to a delegated president, the head of local self-government, is delegated without any overly clear criteria, and that person, as I understand it, may have misunderstood, at any point, can therefore, in principle, that person is his substitute without any additional added value. But I don't know how that's going to affect something too fatefully, but here. As a possible one of the problems, when I was reading this Law, I saw the fact that when the Assembly decides on some really important things such as the work programme, such as the adoption of statutes, such as annual reports, this decision must be made on a proposal from a tourist council, which is the executive body, a kind of tourist government at a certain level, it must make 2/3 of the majority, which I think might create certain problems on the ground, that is, such a high degree of compliance could happen, if even such a quorum can be satisfied, that it can lead to the fall of tourist councils on, in one case, to every year's problems, meaning, in the functioning of the work of tourist councils, it might make it a little more flexible, quite necessary, such a large qualified majority to accept such documents. Also here would be another little criticism that, I think colleagues before me have also noticed, that the director of a tourism organisation on the one hand is elected through a public tender, all this is fine, so it's chosen by a tourist council, usually by most, but in order to replace it, it takes 2/3 again, I think it will really be some of these directors cementing it for all time. I think the same thing should be considered, as well as another, purely possibly nomotechnical or not know what I would call it, one intervention says that the director of the tourism organization corresponds to the council, the tourist council and the assembly, but also to the president. The Council and the President. The President of the Tourist Board or the Director appointed him, or loaned him at all, in the process of setting him up, so that I do not see on what basis, you usually answer to whoever gave you the mandate or who could possibly replace you. resolve. But, well, that's more like, I don't know, I guess, technicals, and things are going to come up between two readings. What's also important to say about local tourism organisations, so now they've been given one very specific legal i.e. concrete legal authority to participate in the creation of local tourism policy, therefore, not only strategic documents, which is very important, but some specific ones, therefore, must now be asked about the tourist community when they are brought in, for example. Decision on the working time of the catering facilities. I think it's very important for every tourist resort. Just as tourism cannot be fully imposed on the local community, because the local community is made up of people who choose their representatives precisely because they want to determine some direction in which a particular place or city will develop. Similarly, politics cannot fully, therefore, ask people who have invested funds living from that particular destination anything when it comes to something as important as working hours. Also, of course, it is a good thing that they now have to agree on the spending of these funds that go from tourist tax to city budget. Now I see that I'm actually almost done, there must agree with my colleague Panenic since this is a united debate and we really should have set ourselves 20 minutes, it's really an important topic. So, let me speed it up a little bit. I think it is good, therefore, that one hierarchy is set up, it is good that the Croatian Tourist Board (HTZ) will now concentrate more on strategic thinking, on the promotion of the Republic of Croatia, on some, I think I read it somewhere, in a way that will be led by foreign tourism policy in the Republic of Croatia i.e. means, the presentation of the Republic of Croatia to be some saport tourism in the Republic of Croatia. I also think it's good to encourage circulation. means that the association of tourist communities, at the level of units of local self-government, is the same in some way an answer and the question of what will happen to those local tourist communities that will not have enough resources, therefore, to meet these criteria, means no more than 30% for employees. It can always be voluntary to join several tourist communities, I don't think it's going to fall off anyone's head because of it, I think that's exactly the goal of rounding up, being together self-sufficient, not just for functioning for the basic, but for the strategic, therefore, performance towards, what's actually the goal, and that's for the user, it's for the international, meaning, tour operators, according to those who actually exist, which are tourists. So, I still have very little time left, I would like to look back at the other two, although I believe I haven't talked about this at all, we haven't talked about this at all, I mean this is an extremely important law, it's the main Act on Tourist Communities, and the Law on Tourist Taxes, that is. on tourism, yes, earlier on about tourist fees, now tourist fees, well that this termology has changed, this tourist text is always in the world this as a tourist tax, and I think on the one hand, so there is now the possibility for regional self-government units, so, the counties to determine the height of the tourist tax, I'm not sure how happy this is, the minister assured me before the session that it works everywhere in the world, I am truly afraid that someone for purely populist reasons would not, for example. set the lowest possible level of tourist tax for a specific location, for a particular county, with which it will actually do itself a bear service because so many less tourist communities will arrive, and I do not believe that these euro or half euro will at a total price mean some kind of competitive, meaning it will be some kind of competitive already. I would also like to mention that, as far as these tourist fees are concerned, it has changed the concept of a rope family, and they have fallen out of that circle of brothers and sisters, I don't think it's good, I think you should think about it, after all, I think when, it can create a lot of problems in the family who will use the property etc. and what I would especially like to praise the Ministry, is that it has entered into the concept of the same-sex community defined in the Law on, so, same-sex communities, which has thus failed to enter into some other laws, but here, however, in this Law, it has been brought into some kind of emancipation and has become full and equal with the family, and I thank you for that, and for that I thank you all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120425	Thank you, fellow Sauchi. As I told my colleague Panenic, therefore, when the debate was brought together, my previous colleague offered the clubs to be united for 20 minutes, none of the clubs came forward, so you know, and you have almost 3 minutes to report a single and final word, so you can extend another 20 minutes. We continue the debate, on behalf of SDP's representative, respected colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Here's a few words about this package of laws. First of all, I would like to set something aside from this debate today and say that it is certainly news day for the tourism sector, which is this announcement that VAT in catering will still be reduced. I'm one of those guys who's asked the ministry to do it in public appearances 50 times before. Unfortunately, this will only happen in 2020, as I understand it, of course it is a pre-election year, so it is not by accident either, I wish it had happened this year and that since 1.1.2019 we have had a smaller VAT in catering and, of course, it would be very good to include the accommodation sector and that it goes even lower in Croatia as it is in the competitive countries when tourism is concerned. As far as this story is concerned, I will also refer to the discussion of my colleague Kleman, who mentioned this significant investment cycle, and I must say that this investment cycle has started a little earlier than the mandate of this government or these two last HDZ governments and that this is something that got us out of the crisis there in the second half of the mandate in which the SDP led the government. The tourist sector was the one that started to invest seriously first, at that time it happened 10 or 12, and it seems to me that we have managed to find partners for some major tourist companies in Croatia and where, through additional investments, it has qualified these facilities for serious work in this important tourism sector. As far as these laws are concerned, I must say that I have looked very closely and part of the public consultation on the adoption of these laws. And one general remark was that it was actually relatively little consulted profession on, let's say on the ground conditionally. So maybe it would be better if the experience of people from the field was even more used because of what I'm going to say below what's already been mentioned here. This primarily refers to the process of reorganisation of tourist communities according to this principle of destination management. Which is the destination, it's also an important question. So what level do we observe that destination at? Is this a local destination, is it a regional destination, is Croatia as a country destination? Of course, all of that is certain, so the answer is yes to all these questions. And now, of course, the question is when you say that you have reorganized a system of tourist communities according to the principles of destination management then that includes, of course, all of these levels because all of these levels are a destination like some places. And here I think that people who have made observations about this part as well as some places, i.e. some settlements within the units of the local self-government of the destination, are surrounded, valuable and strong, and as such have the right to retain perhaps such institutions as the tourist communities that have worked on certain projects of the promotion of that destination. This law unfortunately abolishes the tourist community, no more, and at the lowest level of organisation is therefore at the level of the unit of local self-government. It's that important change. Well, okay, it's an information center but it's not a tourist community either. And there's now a very serious question of whether for some units, there may not be many of them, but definitely there are, maybe it's something that's not ultimately a good solution. I mean, I'm not going to brag about some good side of the law because there are my predecessors who have already explained everything, so there's no need for me to talk about it on the side of the opposition, but there is, I say, there are good things definitely. I'm trying to point out some of these issues that come primarily from the field, so from people who are involved in jobs, so activities of tourist communities today, that is, in the past and today. One more thing here, the obligation to set up tourist communities is lifted. The whole story is actually kind of trying to rationalize on a new level. However, the question arises if some tourist communities are eliminated in some areas whether motivations will be sufficient to take over the jobs of those communities that are being abolished in those areas. And how it's going to happen. So this association of potentially tourist communities is also questionable because they are said to be associated with the agreement, this agreement does not create some new legal person but exclusively represents potential cooperation between existing institutions and gathering them on joint projects. But where some tourist communities have been abolished may become conditionally empty space in terms of covering certain activities they have so far had. I'm talking first of all about continental areas, I'm talking about Slavonia, I'm talking about Lica, I'm talking about Međimurje, I'm talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, definitely, so there's an objective danger that they're being sub-represented in one process that's headed for our happiness ahead, which is that it's a bit of resuscitating and developing and that continental tourism. We who are from Dalmatia can witness this on a concrete example of the Dalmatian burning where it has already gone to a good degree. And it would be a shame if there wasn't this institutional infrastructure that would adequately support it. In doing so, I absolutely support this limitation to 30% of gross wages in the total incomes of the tourist community because it allows space for the 70% of the remaining funds to really finance concrete projects without just doing so, let's just say in human resources, conditionally speaking. However, it is known that in many smaller communities, as well as in those communities with less capacity for income, this has been very often happening. But I'm saying, here, we're still staying, and that's what we've been talking about on the board to determine what, exactly what the revenues of the tourist community are, and what people, or their salaries, we're counting on in these 30%. We also mentioned these information centers, whether they're inside, not etc., etc., etc. Furthermore, as regards these organisational changes related to the definition of the presidents of the tourist community, the municipality or the city, or the county where they were the leaders until now. Perhaps we should also more precisely define some of the conditions that should be met by people who assume these functions and who will be appointed to those functions. On the other hand, however bad it was for the leaders of the local and regional self-government units to be at the head of tourist communities, their influence was very often very important for certain projects to be implemented at all. And now as that bridge fills in in this new situation, it will obviously take some time and experience to see how it works in the best possible way. As for these proposals on memberships in tourist communities and tourist tax, i.e. the residence tax as it is now called, I would only appeal to two things. We talked about them in some other context especially when we talked about these tax changes and this major commitment to private renters in tourism where we said it wasn't the same where this private tenant rents, I don't know at the level of one unit of local self-government, the type of Split town, whether this facility, the apartment in Diocletian's palace, is in the strict center of town or somewhere on the periphery of Sucidar, Pujanke, etc., where definitely it can't be the same tax burden because there are also assumptions that certain revenues there get different. So they act and function in different conditions. Therefore, certain zoning should certainly be introduced. Something like that, I think you should do with a residence tax. I really suggest you work through some regulations or other, and since the minister redefines the minimum and maximum, maximum range, i.e. regional and local self-government leaders, that these additional criteria may be introduced, which would certainly be fairer, logical, etc., etc. As for the members themselves, it has been established right here that memberships primarily serve continental tourist communities as income, this shows the data so far and I will read them to you briefly because they are very indicative. So in the coastal counties of 2017. 409 million kunas have acquired tourist communities from the tourist tax and only 23 million in the continental. This also speaks of visits, this is about the number of tourists, this is about the number of overnight stays that have been achieved, etc., etc. where there is 13.4 out of 23 in the TZ city of Zagreb. So more than half the total income from the membership fee, from the residence tax, I'm sorry. As for membership fees in 2017 in the continental part of the membership fee amounted to 118 million, 85 million kuna in the city of Zagreb. So in the whole other continental area somewhere around 32, 33 million kuna. It's a really negligible number. And in this part of the sea, the rest of the tourist memberships that are important are significantly smaller. What's the problem? So again, we have that illogicality that the colleague, former Minister of Tourism Kleman just started talking about but didn't finish where obviously me and he totally agree, which is that this principle of collecting membership to the company's headquarters should certainly be corrected and amended in some way. Because it is simply unfair that of the total membership of the city of Zagreb only because all the largest companies there set their seats from HT as he said or did not know Croatian mail or INA or I don't know which other companies, Zagreb will profit most from it and provide practically 75 to 80% of the total membership fee. And what's all this kid doing? And what will all of these, according to Slavonia, Lici, Međimurje, northern Croatia, who have nothing to finance their projects from? Well, from what I'm saying here again, the churches are funding only the boss' salary I don't know about TZ and his secretary and nothing else. So I can't just do anything, there's a problem. There's a problem. Thus, the financial sustainability of a number of small tourist communities, especially in passive areas, is what it is because it is an unfair distribution of membership fees. And there's something you need to change. If this solution were left as it is not enough, then simply I welcome one more thing, I welcome that membership fees are generally reduced and that you have relieved more of these, I don't know how many 30, 50 branches of activity etc., I certainly welcome it and we have reduced it in terms of reducing parafiscal burdens and you have continued and all that OK, but on the other hand we have a deficit then in the budget of tourist communities, especially in the land section which I can say objectively create a serious problem of their functioning, even after this rationalisation and this reform. And you're really gonna have to do something about it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120427	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Greek. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120428	Thank you very much, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow tourist community and the Law on the Tourist Community where certain things are defined are and acceptable to everyone and would not repeat this is that 30% can no longer spend on income salaries, these are things that can be defined as a percentage, if you need a smaller one, it is a question of all questions. Is any change, whether it will be the mayor of a local head or county or will he appointed his own it is not some change if otherwise representative bodies have lost mainly "lex sheriff" have lost this role so that city councils, county councils no longer mean anything this is sheriff's country local so that they are empowered and they will appoint who is most suitable to them, so that this change is either not, before it is. I would start with this last one, so is counterpart Kliman, former minister and in front of the SDP, a colleague of Greeks, who is a member of the board. Is it possible that in Croatia and it is possible that indicators say that it stays the most in Zagreb. It remains of course, because the teleoperator has here, let's say HT is registered here in Zagreb, all the money comes to Zagreb, and the fact that he is throwing illegal base stations at our cultural goods is wonderful, you will see on Kliška Fortress the hip is bigger than the mast of the base station, against the law right on Kliška Fortress. You'll see when you go. It is less important, but it is important to pour money into Zagreb and that the mayor of Zagreb later goes to Sinjska alka, here's one of those pairs, here's another horse, here's the third horse, and then the man deals, of course he's your main coalition partner and you've done it terribly well and put it here in the law to keep it how the triba stays, to keep all the money from the company's membership fee in Zagreb, does a man have to sell money to keep the majority here? And he does that, and it's sad and embarrassing to have, say, from the base station on Klisko Fortress which is a cultural symbol until the end that we have, not only can we list here, look how funny it is, when I see a base station on Klisko Fortress that is bigger than the mast, disaster, cultural goods, without applicable permits set up, pay the right of service to local self-government units and, of course, that profit that most of the 80% comes to Zagreb from membership, of course that will be shared by the regional council representatives will be most, you don't have to worry, and it's really don't pass because it's going to hurt you won't have stability in this parliament. If we're going to be honest, so really if the triba disburses certain companies, certain activities, the triba disbursed not a triba membership fee, but it's a pity that the teleoperer pays all the money paid by a teleoper who's the strongest, has the largest profit in the Republic of Europe, not the EU's biggest margin that money remains in the most developed part is this one right here. A membership fee for tourist communities in undeveloped areas, passive in dead areas, which is 2/3 remains in Zagreb. And it's not fair and fair. It is not, it is the least unfair thing about these parts, there is an injustice that so strong is the City of Zagreb with these memberships. Tourist taxes would not be spoken of because of what is seen, it is visible where more tourists are there and remains. What would I say? We talked about this law, I believe that we will develop tourism more evenly, but it is not only the Ministry of Tourism that, in fact, which by this law which can be partly positive can be negative, the triba can talk, the triba see whether in the final proposal of laws and amendments something can be fixed, but the fact that concerns me most, which is the problem of small, family small tenants where income tax from 1.1 takes over in fact local self-government, determines the majority, and it has given the role of representative bodies. So that's the law we've passed here, that's it. The VAT local self-government will determine, i.e. the representative body whether it is 150 to 1,500 kuna, if it does not provide the representative body of the local self-government with a price of 750 kuna, medium. Now imagine what is the advantage and which is essentially the robbery of the tenants who are there, mainly in smaller areas where it is not, where less tourism is developed, and people who are essentially these small economics, these small family tenants are best presented to the Croatian tourist, because they draw closer to people, this socially very important component and live in the household. When you depend on whether the city council will even bring in the budget, what if it doesn't bring in the city council budget, 750 kuna immediately with 150,5 times is increasing, which is possible that it won't bring in the city council. I'm giving the Minister of Finance here an amendment and I'm telling him he doesn't accept and, of course, mine was only to try to organise this petition after calling all the tenants and the continental Croatia and the coastal Croatia, I'm that constitutionally to be seen in the Constitutional Court, I have to protect these people in the Constitutional Court and expect the Constitutional Court's reply, is it unconstitutional to be robbed and allowed to local sheriffs they can aimly say that they don't bring the assembly, shut up if they don't make a assembly or council from 1.1 to 31.1. the decision no matter how much price they will jump from 150 kuna per bed to 750 kuna. And if the council falls, i.e. If the budget doesn't mean 750 kuna, it's counter-constitutional, it's a robbery, it's a direct robbery of people who deal with tourism. So they'll jump minimally for... means 150 kuna per 750 kuna if the city council and the municipality do not decide on the height of the bed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from 150 kuna to a thousand and a half kuna. So I gave it to the Constitutional Court because it's unconstitutional. Falling councils, no council decisions during this period, the city council is immediately up to 150 kuna per 700 kuna to the tenant. I think it's a huge problem because many people deal in the coastal part of it, I won't even talk about it, but in the continental part of it, now imagine in some small municipality that's in Dalmatia, because in my city that deals with renting there's no profit that big because it's just that it's just not the decision that he's going to have to pay 750 kuna per bed in 2019. So these powers, it's unconstitutional, it's simply anti-constitutional. And the local leaders will keep quiet, it's not our fault, it's the law. The Council fell or the Council did not propose or the Council did not accept. So you can't put it that way in the renter's position to depend on whether we have, whether we've passed the budget, whether we have a majority in the council or not. It's just that the renter was brought under the wing and hand of the local sheriffs. Very important, the Household, Halfboard and Pensions Act, I know that tourism is the most important branch, 20% of GDP is tourism, but I can't accept that we import more food, there's a tourist community, I'm going to go away for a while, I can't accept that, 20% of GDP is tourism, but I can't accept that we are increasingly importing food and that we are increasingly selling imported food during tourism. For what? Because we pass the law that pensioners or half-boarders must have release permits, numerous food permits. So we have to simplify in the Dalmatian Zagora, do we have anything to show for it? In Sinj, you have embassies, prosciutto, we have something to show when people come to Sinj's Alk, ours. However, we have limited. For what? They're literally not allowed to bake buildings, to bake people to honor their guests. It's not the law, it's not the point. We have to make it possible because in Dalmatian Zagora, Lica, specific areas to renters, i.e. people who give half-boards, so they can deal with that activity. To enable them, to give them the opportunity, to find the law, the reasons. And not hitchhike them so they can't. Why? That they go to big hotels, that they're the only ones who can give food, and who knows whose food is the most imported, they care about profit, and at least it's from our O.P.G.s. And that's what I think one of the big problems is, mostly I'm talking about the continental part, but also in the coast. I believe that these membership fees should be resolved much more honestly and transparently because I cannot imagine that this teleoperator who does not pay the right of service in the Republic while in Germany pays, who does not pay the building permit for antenna pillars or base stations in Croatia and does not need a salary in Germany, which has the highest profit. And that membership fee that should go to TZ goes to Zagreb and then the mayor of Zagreb will share the gifts of the Republic of Croatia from these couples. And if it's a state equal... Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120429	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this debate. We have a replica, dear colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120430	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, I didn't realize what kind of tourist tax you were talking about from 750 or 150 kuna? So here it is clear through this law that units of local self-government or regional or county, however you will, will prescribe the lowest and highest tourist tax, i.e. tourist tax. Here, I think a very good solution is that units of local self-government have been transferred responsibilities in that whole story. So we can't always ride around Zagreb, Zagreb will bring something, when it needs money from the Ministry of Tourism or from any ministry, constantly riding around Zagreb and there are no responsibilities at the site. Justified fear is where irresponsible politicians are but in any case, it will show who is the responsible politician and who thinks about his destination in this case or his unit of local self-government and those who are not. So I don't see much of a problem here, and eventually, if there are such problems, the citizens will decide in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120431	Thank you, colleague Kleman. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120432	I've just listened to your debate, I haven't spoken in this part of the second, I said that not only can the Ministry of Tourism be responsible for the problem of tourism. We have income tax where the new law stipulates that renters will be appointed by city councils, I didn't say, city councils from 1.1 to 31.1. If they do not bring in this period for 2019, the price will be 750 kuna. That's the problem. So the legislator can't leave the tenants small, he can't leave the current political situation to certain local self-government and representative bodies whether there will be a choice, whether the budget will pass, that's the political part. In this way we left these people basically that many of them will collect the price of 5X per bed, because of their lack of responsibility, because of their failure to make that decision. And that's a huge shame, I gave it to the Constitutional Court. We can't do that, mainly in underdeveloped municipalities... That's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120433	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, therefore Croatia has one of the most beautiful parts of the Mediterranean and it is certainly for Croatia, for Croatian tourism primarily a gift but I think it is also a curse for Croatia. Why is it a gift? So now whoever was on our shores, who was lucky enough to take a boat through our islands, knows why it's a gift. However, the share of over 20% of the total GDP of tourism also looks like a gift, at least in the short term, but in the long term, it is certainly a curse. But the reason why, Adriatic tourism or the Adriatic Sea, I put in context, the negative context of Croatian tourism is, above all, that 22% of the share of continental tourism is only 2%, and if we threw out the City of Zagreb and included only rural space of the Republic of Croatia, then that share would be less and less than 1% of the total share in tourism. Investments in tourism do not develop overnight, nor do they develop materially in terms of hotel accommodation, marketing and other, but neither do those people who are equally important. The development of continental tourism is an essential element of demographic restoration, competitiveness growth and the overall rise of a higher standard of living, especially in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. By entering the EU, we have accepted higher or higher standards of environmental and nature protection, such as Natura 2000, such as Nature Parks, or we have adopted different Directives that protect biodiversity, which protect flora and fauna and protect their space. And as this usually happens in the public sector of transition countries, we are much more focused on bans, on restrictions, we are very jealous if there is something to be banned, if there is something to do, instead of focusing our capacities on the benefits that give us a new framework for environmental protection. Let me show you this plastically, I will tell you about an example which I am personally involved with, namely, a small municipality, some 80 km southwest of Zagreb, on the Croatian Slovenian border, a municipality which, of course, has no Adriatic Sea, has no islands, only has a forest, has a river and has a cave, a cave that is geomorphologically important, which is important in its biodiversity and that cave that has already been visited by tourists since the first half of the 20th century. However, in order for the more serious tourist capacity to be, the local community together with the Ministry and the Bank for Reconstruction and Development several years ago has therefore invested in rebuilding itself, therefore, the cave infrastructure itself, therefore, in lighting, interpretation centre, access routes, over a million and a half euros. And now, even though the local population and all the others know for 4,000 years that bats are inhabiting the cave, suddenly the Ministry of Environmental Protection has understood it, so they have made monitoring of the same caves and concluded that these caves must no longer be visited, and now imagine the anger of the local community that she considered, therefore, that this facility will become some kind of wheel of a locomotive of tourism development, they have received the first single cave in Europe that is not actually to be visited. Today, when we talk about rural development, we all have our mouths full of incentives, demographic renewals, however, in particular, or we're doing nothing about it or we're doing very little or in this case in particular, we're doing the opposite of that. So, yes, while on a monument that is protected by UNESCO, such as the city of Dubrovnik, so, while on one such monument of the world heritage, the scenes of a bad movie about Robin Hood are raised, then these towers in that same place are burned, so one Dubrovnik that is rich not only by Croatian standards. In a small municipality, you cannot exploit and use the idea of a local community because of 125 bats. Today when we talk about tourism, then with tourism, there is an adjective that is very... And that's sustainability. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I deeply believe, therefore, that this sustainability other than flora and fauna, other than biodiversity, so other than the animal and plant world, must involve people, because if it will not involve people, then to get back to the beginning of this story, that monitoring will conclude that after a year, after the cave has not been visited, the colony of bats has grown by 7 individuals. Also, statistics will say that the same local community at the same time left 7 families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120435	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120436	Dear Presidents of the Ministry of Tourism, the Honorable Secretary of State, Glava and his associates. Here are the 3 Laws relating to residence tax, membership fee and tourist communities, we are discussing them together and in the proposals of these two Laws on residence tax and tourist membership we have one table that essentially points to a lot of things, points to problems and areas where tourism is developing, and given that I come from the coastal part, when I see this table, I feel very important, is there really a significant traffic in us, both in Baška Voda, both in the town of Makarska, Brela, Podgori, Tučepi, Graz, and that doesn't mean that certainly when I see these figures and when we see how much less tourist traffic or overnight is happening in the city of Makarska, Brela, Podgora, Tučepi, Graza and this does not mean that we all together contribute to the development and continental part of the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to me here that we have only 272 rural households in the area of the Republic of Croatia as registered and I am pleased to note that through the office that I am running, we launched 10 new rural households that are emerging from the measures of the rural development programme, and although we thought that it may be small and that it should be even more, it means that 3% of the total number of so far registered rural households in the family farms, and I think it is very important and here I welcome and simpler patterns in the registration of the transport of family farms. However, I also note that since no settlements will be classified in the classes, they have been used in the system mostly for the purpose of calculating membership fees, that both the Ministry of Agriculture and others implementing the EU programme use these classes and, unfortunately, when they are taken uniformly without studying what their basic objective is and why the Ministry of Tourism brought them from HTZ, I am now not sure exactly who adopts this rule, they know mistakes in implementation, so I stress this. Here is a colleague of Greece's, who mentioned the incomes of those who have apartments, for example, Diocletian's Palace, and I certainly think that we should approach different areas and users, but we also keep looking at incomes here and so when we look at incomes from the tourist tax and for my area we can say and look, they have as much money as you want, but of course we have a lot of costs. If we were to compare the cost of maintaining the infrastructure, maintaining the beaches, feeding, I think it's a dizzy amount where you later ask yourself why money for that army of people who work hard in utility companies and everything like that to keep the infrastructure clean, safe, etc. in such small places. So I think that everything needs to be looked at from aspects and costs and revenues and that it needs to be entered into deeper analysis. We, when we studied here as well, were also referred by the professor at the time by the Greeks to this tourist membership that could be greater in the city of Zagreb for certain companies to have headquarters in the city of Zagreb and so traffic that they achieve in the area and other parts of the Republic of Croatia for tourism, if it is increased that they have unfairly higher incomes. Is that so I think we need an analysis here and colleagues from MOST have criticised it, I don't know, but I also used the numbers to see how much tax, the income from the membership of the city of Zagreb, is really great, but when we look at the whole of the Republic of Croatia, it's about 14% which is not the same as we all know that a quarter of the population of the Republic of Zagreb is located in the city of Zagreb, so we have to check whether it's irrelevant because we who are not from Zagreb from the capital don't always like to talk about Zagreb, but definitely need one such analysis that we have a more quality debate to see whether it is so that the amount that is due to the activities of such large companies in the larger area than the city of Zagreb and the revenues are going to be considered, but I can't say that we can't possibly assess it because it's just because it's coming to be more than the income in the city of Zagreb. As far as the key changes in this law are concerned, I think it is very important that TZ funds for local projects, i.e. that as much as 25% of the funds can be used for local projects, are in line with the Assembly's decision, i.e. the Tourist Council, as already foreseen, and I think that is one topic that we can still develop. The law is in first reading. And I would also point out that, of course, the people of the system and TZ, mainly from the Split-Dalmatia County, from which I come, sent me a series of questions, a series of questions from the tourist community, both in the hinterland and in the coastal parts. One large part is already responsible for consulting in the club discussion and I thank you for that. So there's some specific questions about whether now there's a bed fee and the extra one not only for the main one, so here's the question that's somehow stuck in the air. Here in the community where I come from, there are as many as 9,000 of these beds, so of course they want to know if it's basic or auxiliary. I must say that somehow there is a problem in interpreting these 30% that can be used on employees, on labour, meaning in the tourist communities of which it amounts, whether it's from that basic amount, or when certain funds are transferred to local self-government units, so there are other queries. And although here and today we have mentioned concrete tourist communities operating in the area of several units of local self-government, perhaps in our area there is one that acts on the largest number of units of local self-government but they appear to me a little with fear, wondering if we will be sustainable, there is a question of the problem of payment of membership fees, a tourist tax as I hear it, and controlling it is a good charge. But as far as membership fees are concerned, there's a problem with customs, FINA and everything else. So if the main source of the income of TZ is from the hinterland and so I assume, we also see in the continent that the problem of the payment of membership is then more intensely occurring with this provision of 30%. And more or less, I think it's about residence tax and membership fees. What's also good that certain activities here will certainly be hair salons satisfied that they're no longer bonds, if so, paying membership fees, as far as I understand. And as far as the county tourist communities are concerned, it is mentioned that it is missing, an effect on product creation. I certainly agree here and I think that, in addition to the money, as regards this proposal, there is also a lack of knowledge and human potential and everything else as simply projects required by regional tourist communities to be truly significant in regional terms so that it is not just some marking of some path, GPS marking. Here's when we talk about cycling trails, it's very important that when these paths are done, that they be safe, that they have consent and ZUC, that simply that tourist who is there, who we attract by ensuring that the road safety of him is sometimes lagging behind because infrastructure procedures are not working because of the lack of funds and then doing some promotional shorter projects that do not meet their purpose. So much for now, and here's my thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120437	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Vranesh. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120438	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned that incomes should be observed through expenditures and I agree with you here, means how much costs are in tourist resorts, maintenance of green areas, and so on, but it is the job of local self-government, and not these tourist fees, so when, from tourist fees, the funds are not going for that part, they go for some work of the marketing tourist community, and it should be observed through that part, and that is where it comes to find, I am for them to be, because no one is going to volunteer, voluntary, but should, as a rule, target a tourist community to be effective and that citizens, or providers of tourist services in that area, see the benefits of some of what they pay for, and not to be able to rely on that the tourist communities have a lot of money and to organise some kind of festivals to co-finance 2000, 3000 kunas for some kind of programme and that it is not only to find the balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120439	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. My colleague Vranjš's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120440	Thank you. This is exactly what tourism communities need to create one round project, and part of the resources in these large ones, those who receive up to 200,000 kuna, they do not single out for local self-government units, but 30% goes out of revenue means units of local self-government from which it is held next to it because of a large number of guests, and this Law allows, and it also allows 25% of the tourist community's funds to finance local projects and that's what's important, because the advertising itself, some flyers, as you say some events and co-financing of certain parties, I don't think it satisfies the one who pays a living tax and membership fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120441	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vranesh. Next replica, dear colleague Kleman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Vranjš, ma, you mentioned that there is a need to analyse tourist memberships for large systems that pay their obligations in Zagreb, there is not much analysis. The analysis should be as much as would be charged to certain, the rest of Croatia. One HT, one VIP, a lot of companies use one volatility in the Law to pay where their headquarters is, and not where incomes are made. There, I agree, is an analysis of how much traffic they have made during the period when some tourist resort was burdened with tourists who were at that moment on their own, at the very destination. I agree that 14% is very much, the whole analysis needs to be done, but it is unacceptable that the entire income of a large taxpayer is paid only in Zagreb, not in proportion to the traffic achieved in the whole of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120443	Thank you. My colleague Vranjš's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120444	Thank you. I think it's an analysis of how I listed it, because we now have data on total income, so we need analytical data on height, species, and we definitely need more of that data to make our debate quality, but you've already mentioned companies, but we haven't gotten anywhere yet, you haven't mentioned it either. I'm a percentage of 14% I didn't say it was much or small, but I said it was 14%, and it's up to all of us to definitely hear the answer, to estimate whether 14% much or not, do we know that there's a lot of traffic going on in the city of Zagreb and based on accurate data let's analyze it then, yes, we understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120445	I thank my colleague Vranj for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120446	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I am at the beginning of my debate I want to say that it is very good that, that this package of the Law goes in two readings, so that it goes in one regular procedure, and I also think it is very good that we have the opportunity to discuss tourism in the Croatian Parliament because we do not often have these opportunities, not even any laws or changes where we could touch tourism, and tourism is very important for Croatia and not only because it is our largest economic branch and its share is 20% in the total GDP, but also because it is part of our tradition, so we have a long tradition as a people, along 140 years of organised tourism, and that is what one of the branches we definitely know how to do. What I would point out in this package of the Law proposal is precisely that I think it is good to go to one reorganisation of the tourist community from top to bottom, I think it is a good story to encourage the rounding of tourist communities, here I will say, for example, in my town, so before the war we were former municipality of Crikvenica and means, for 40 years we branded this area as Crikvenica-Vinodol Riviera, and then in 1993 we were from that area, we were three units of local self-government, and now each has their own tourist community, let them have a regional tourist community, let's say the city of Crikvenica and each one of its own destinations, so these Crikvenica-Vinodolska became a Crikvenica Riviera, Vinodol Riviera and the Riviera of the Croatian Primorje, which is still unrecognable in those international markets, so far back in the old times, and in the old times we had been in the same age. So, you need rounding, you need joint appearances on international markets, we also have those regions, the Kvarner region, for example, with me, which has not yet revived, branded yet, but I think that in the future it will be common, it will be good. What I agree also here that we don't have enough data, I would like to see the efficiency of these tourist communities, right here and here just before we talked, so, the tourist communities, some of them have huge incomes, and just what they're saying here is that they should now encourage local projects, here I don't know, with me saying that a local project is such that I don't know, we, a team from a smaller place, come to the director of a tourist community, knock on the door and say we'd make a fishing event, he says if there's 2,000 kuna here I'll co-finance that part for you and now we have this fishing party one day he gave 2,000 kuna, put it there in the report on the work of local activity, and that's that's it. But not all tourist communities are such, here we see the progress of the City of Zagreb in recent years which has been terrible through this advent lift, raised his work, so there are people. So people who pull it and people who do it and what are the principles of these tourist communities. Here I'm going to say, in my case, the example is just as interesting, that it's been in my city since '93. To date, five mayors have changed, and the director of the tourist community is always the same, and we are now working on some autopilot, so there is no innovation, there is nothing. So he had all this old stuff that's been around for 20 years and there's a little bit of what I said, these parties and these are things that should change. And that's why I like to say this way that, which is partly proposed here only with this data I would like to see until the second reading if it's possible to see maybe a little bit of that revenue hips are, as far as it goes back through the projects and through that part, I think it's the same thing, that it's good to see this tourist tax being charged, that I'm not against abolishing these things, so let's call them in, because it can't be, it just needs to find a balance that's sustainable and acceptable to people who provide these services, and that's sustainable and acceptable to those who help them in this service. I'm going to say the same thing on an example in my city, for example. If we have an event in summer, then you, if it's that day in town, for example. Some concert then all the caterers in the area of the center where some band is benefiting from it, and you ask them 5 days before you want to participate that let each one pay one piece, so we'll bring in the singer, and that's not going to happen. So when the city or tourist community brings them someone they benefit from, that's OK, and that's why they should be imposing and paying you. Another thing these colleagues were saying was, I think my colleague Kleman was talking on behalf of the club about depoliticalizing the tourist community and that's good. And I think that's good. Just now I'm interested in the situation that we have in Croatia today. The director of the Croatian Tourist Community is the town councilor of HDZ in the city of Rijeka, still very politically active, every council there attacks. And now I'm interested in how he likes to be the director of the Croatian Tourist Board, for example. if on his city council he enters conflicts with Mayor Obersnel, then I don't know when Učka is coming through here in Zagreb, and there he makes decisions in Iblero Square that are not contrary to the city, the city of Rijeka. And these are incompatible functions. So this fellow Kliman, which you said the minister may be the director of the tourist community under certain conditions and that this is what we bring together today we have a situation on the part that the director of the Croatian Tourist Board is elected in a public competition, a candidate for the mayor of the city of Rijeka who has not passed, and now the town councilman is still in the city of Rijeka, and I don't think he needs it. I mean far from it in his competences it's a person with great experience in tourism, but there is still this one political crime, where there can always be suspected of this one conflict of interest. And you can think if we have at national level such a situation, what is then in locals, that tourist workers of tourist communities are at the lowest levels, and this is how it goes. That's why we have to work on this, that depoliticization, but true. So we're going from the head to the state, and then we're going down. Secondly, I welcome this simplification of forms like everyone, every simplification is very good and everything that will make it easier for our renters and tourist employees to operate in any case should be welcomed. The vessels, so the reduction in the fees or the release of duties for vessels up to 7 m, with 5 to 7 lifts, I think it's a very good message and a good solution and I think it should look again because there are some vessels that are the same bigger, and maybe they're not even doing some activities there, but in that direction we should continue to see how this shift is going to work now, and then think eventually about expanding that story, but this, already from 5 to 7 is a positive and good story for me. It's a good thing it can be determined now by the number of nights or by the flat, which has not been the case so far. The second thing, this part is not very clear to me about county congregations that bring the minimum and maximum price of residence, is not that, OK, because that's what I've been talking about all along, I've been listening to a little bit to my colleague Bulj, so I didn't realize it, I couldn't find it in there. So, according to this as far as I've been able to read, and you correct me, you'll probably have a chance to say in the final presentation, is that the county assembly at the proposal of local tourist communities makes the amount that is and the ministry prescribes how much is the lowest, and how much is it the most, and that if by chance the assembly doesn't make a decision then it's no medium price, but it's the lowest price that's prescribed. That's how I read it from the law, which is why it was kind of weird for me to talk to you earlier, so here's a clean answer to that question. And in fact, what I am interested in here is what it says in the law that the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb Assembly is bringing on a proposal of local environments, does this mean that it will propose local environments so that the county will bring it to the entire county equally or for each city or municipality individually, so these are things that are not clearly visible from this bill, perhaps we should make it more detailed until the second reading. And basically that's it. I think this is a good story that this part is clearly now prescribed on how much it amounts to go to and the county tourist communities, how long it stays at the place and how much it goes for what and how much this part goes into the interior. For example, we have so far not had that part prescribed, so we have just had that post of director of the Croatian Tourist Community who then shared the money let's say for certain projects without a clear criterion and regulations of this around Croatia, it could have been shared by the coast, but it shared by the inside and there is exactly the position of this up to the emphasis of this political component, if a politician is in that function then he will certainly use his political interests to share these funds. Therefore, this is a very good proposal that is now going to be for the defaration of directors of Croatian tourist communities from top to bottom when it comes to funds. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120447	I thank my colleagues, Giujici, we have two replicas, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120448	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned an article by your esteemed colleague, Giujic. 13. and generally viewed defining the payment of tourist fees and increasing the metro, i.e. the length of the boat up to 7 m. I am now just interested in your opinion actually here. I see the trains are abandoned. And we know, let's say we need from Osijek to Split by train and by that definition how long it takes, I think they should be bonds of paying tourist fees, if we're going to be true for the right. Because this is where you mention... also one kind of means of transport, of course if we're talking about trains, and trains are like so-called. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to joke aside, I think I've used this depression to actually repeat what you said, that this is really the best way to define what it was and what it's meant to be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120449	I would like to thank my colleague Curaj, or Col. Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120450	Thank you very much, colleague Chui, you asked me my opinion, I will tell you my opinion, I have no doubt that you as a partner in government will successfully solve this problem and that you will probably either speed up trains or introduce a residence tax and the number of lying cars on trains. We see that when you really want something true to happen as a party. But I'm going to use this replica for this part that I haven't been able to say in my debate, and that's about these revenues per place of achievement. I also think that we should introduce, that the revenue that is made in the area of a specific city or municipality to remain there. We have these examples. Let's say we have an example through concessions, for example. In ports, gas stations, so INA's for example. The headquarters in Zagreb, but if the INA has a concession in some port to provide services, then it pays a concession fee of 2% per traffic achieved in that place. So that part can be revised into this law and so perhaps we can solve these problems too to keep some of the income in cities and municipalities where it is being realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120451	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120452	Col. Djijic, this particular example that you have cited, related to the Pharaohs sitting in the seats of the directors of the tourist community,... whether to appoint a mandate for these directors of the tourist community to get a mandate, have their mandate, have confidence in a certain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They should pursue certain objectives, and after that, if they haven't justified trust we simply have, they are discussing a new competition, it wouldn't be unusual practice at all, I think it would be fair and it wouldn't happen that ultimately the directors of tourist communities who failed to carry out their tasks, just watch local self-government leaders come and go, and they are safe, because on this how to remove them, especially if we look at their educational structure, where we should prefer those who are in the profession, who come from tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how it happens to us and some geography professors end up there, are they real tourism development experts?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120453	Thank you, dear fellow Panenic, for the response of fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120454	Thank you very much. My colleague Panenić, I agree with you, this is exactly what I was saying, I will tell you in the surroundings of the city where I live, where the younger directors, there the city progresses, there are new ideas, there are new events, there are going. If you're 10-15 years in a particular position, whether or not you want to lose some motivation, you have no more creativity, no idea, a new time is carrying something new. Whether it's a mandate or it's just a tender for 4 years and so on for a term of office, so whether it's always going beyond the election at the level it's named, so we don't come back to some situation, let's say you find yourself practically a director, which then, if we go to the mandate, is a semi-political appointment, that you find him in a certain position, so that he's obstructing power or that the government is obstructing him just because he wants to be replaced. These are the things that we need to analyse and see, that is, see what we want from these tourist communities, whether we want them to bring us progress and development, and then maybe politics shouldn't be there at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120455	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic, for moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120456	Thank you, Vice President. Dear proposing representatives, I'm going to use only a few of these very briefly to underline, or to point out. Namely, a package of these 3 laws, and generally regardless of the time and number of us here, I think that tourism as such and good to go in 2 readings, we'll have other opportunities to hear and hear about tourism as something that we almost depend on, but when you have something that's 20% of GDP, then you're addicted to it. I'm not saying maybe it's the best situation, but it's our reality, but we still have to make better use of it. What is good and what you mention in the replica, the circulation, or the unification of certain tourist communities, must certainly not be solved by a decree and this is a good example of how we can do so in other ministries where we always put choice options. And of course we reward those who recognize it financially. I think it's extremely important, and we're always surprised how someone manages to sell us a story and the whole world goes there just to hear the story of something, and there's really not much of a basis, that when we compare it to our natural beauty, to what we have in our tourist offer, so I hope it's only meaningful and not useful, and not to what dear God has given us and the country that he left us. So, I think this is also an opportunity for continental tourism, which is always kind of talking about some margins, but it doesn't get, so we remove Zagreb that made the explosion, which has shown to all of us that continental tourism is possible, real. For example, Zagreb has the most tourist visits, I was surprised during the summer, in the tourist season, Zagreb has the most tourist visits. I always thought it would be different, no. So he too in summer, as a summer destination is the most visited throughout the year. And I think for sure, that through this association and branding that we can and through when we talk about hunting tourism, rural tourism, cycle of tourism, so we can certainly through more counties than the promoter mentioned, the minister mentioned that there is also a strategy at the level of 5 Slavonian counties, that we can brand the region, that we can brand the Dalmatian hinterland, that we can use the resources and that is the purpose of the tourist communities to do what no individual can, meaning, no single provider of tourist services has that power, that economic possibility of promoting the city itself, the environment itself or the very service at the level of that European or world, as it should be. And because here the more association, the greater potential, of course, we mustn't forget our accommodation facilities because one without another doesn't go, and that can be a big problem, especially with us down in Slavonia and Baranja, it just doesn't. If we wanted 100,000 tourists to come to us at some point, we wouldn't have anywhere to put them. Of course, the offer and demand will settle, but we have to think about other hotel models so-called. It's the same kind of association of many small tenants who perform together as one village, as one municipality, as one association, as one association, as one Baranja, that it's a brand, Dalmatian advance, whatever it means, we can brand it, and that's the beginning, but if we just stay as a letter on paper, and we don't have a strategy and we don't know what we want and how to invest money, of course we don't see it right now, that all of these, the tasks that we've foreseen for these packages of the Law, if we're left with a letter on paper, we won't get rid of it, and there's always someone who's going to initiate it, that through the means, like our little digresion, people learn to write projects. By seeing that they could do it without the state, so the associations went first in pre-accession funds, all of a sudden they learned to write projects, to get, and that the state was nothing there, of course, she was always coughing, the local unit was butchering. And now we have a situation that really these people brought Noah, hired local self-government, and now we have a real sense of purpose. They'll find people ways, they just need a frame. This part of us absolutely welcome and fellow Sacha has also said when we talk about tourist fees is absolutely even though it reduces the circle of people who are considered a member to enter the family, but we welcome that this harmonisation of this Act with the Law on Equal Partners, formal, informal, although we have had some day of voting and everything about it, I think in this sense, business sense and in this part it is absolutely visible how it is applicable and of course we welcome and I think generally considered that we will get one big opportunity that we will just have to take advantage of and that it will depend on the local communities exactly how I will know how to take advantage of it. I also welcome this ratio of schedules, of course, the fees themselves, I think that's exactly what encourages it, it will also encourage associations and absolutely that with tourism like this we must look at that continental part, all of our advantages and brand what is absolutely unique in Europe and the world. For example, we have a possible project for someone to come to Dubrovnik, as it is there, that plane destination in the Republic of Croatia is Dubrovnik, 90% of tourists are coming by airplanes, say, come to Dubrovnik, and you see the largest swamp in Europe. On a one-day trip, on a plane to Osijek's Baranja County in Baranja, Kopačka Rit, Europe's largest swamp. Just by that, that name should already know something, that I'm not talking about ornithologists, various photographers and all those who come there to deal with hunting tourism at a time of time, of course, when it's season, so there's a lot of opportunities and this is certainly the start to use these opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120457	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We have several replicas, dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120458	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Curaj, well, here I will mention one country here to Austria that earns more than tourism, than the entire Republic and that Austria has no sea. So continental tourism can replace the rest of the season, it can play a more noticeable role in tourism, for example, is the Zagreb you listed, networking excellently, branding decisively, but without strong investments from the national level, I'm afraid it won't be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120459	My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120460	Thank you. My colleague Mikulić, yes, and even Austria, I would say that they had a lot of indicators, that one city of Prague has more income from tourism than the entire Malta not the Republic of Croatia. So I'm cartooning, maybe it's not true, but it's not far. So we have to realize that tourism is no longer a deck chair and a sea, that tourism is a service, that tourism is content and we should certainly not invent hot water, but see how it works elsewhere. With a strong joint appearance in the external markets, in promotions, in good experiences, we have not mentioned here at all a kind of tourism, which, I believe, is surely the best ambassador of tourism, it is congress tourism. By encouraging this kind of tourism, surely here at European or global level we can bring people who will be surprised who will later be the classic tourists. That's smart thinking, and that might be potential, unlike continental tourism, just to look smart and encourage association and that congress tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120461	I thank my colleague Curaj for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120462	Here we go, okay, thank you. Col. Curaj, you were talking about accommodation facilities, so it's a very important question, and it's just that these investments are very important and there should be strategic work, so you can't have, I don't know, in one town of 10 km on the coast of Hotel 2*, resort, so Hotel 5*, then Hotel 2*, and again 4*, and 5* because these guests won't all come to the same place. So that's why we have to determine for certain places strategic is the destination 4*, destination 3*, and so to be directed. And secondly, we are now preceded by something that I don't know if anyone is thinking about, which is the Croatian EU presidency, and there will be 6 months of precedents, at least a few months before and after that. The city of Zagreb does not have enough accommodation facilities, high-class hotels to accommodate all foreign diplomats who will come to Croatia for a year to stay here, let alone more guests. So we need to start taking serious care of this. It's right outside the door. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120463	Comrade Djujic, answer from colleague Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120464	Thank you. Yes, as far as accommodation facilities are concerned, it is not always about quantity, but also about quality, and we must not, of course, be exclusive and we must know what we want, both in certain restaurants and at the level of regions of wider associations, and especially when we talk about the highest income tourism or popular, as we say 5 star tourism. As far as Zagreb itself is concerned, I wouldn't know, but I do know that one unfortunately failed bid for the drug agency to put it as one of the conditions, and those accommodation capacities that, come on, here somehow we managed, I think, to satisfy it at least formally, but that tells us that we're not actually ready for the big boom, we're not. Not just now because of this event but in general, but of course we can't be any drunken billionaires and do a lot of accommodation without [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120465	Col. Curaj, next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120466	Thank you very much. A fellow Curaj, in fact, if we look at, the orientation, somehow of continental tourism, always draws us, as we come from Slavonia, to design how Slavonia can profit more significantly. That's the theme that's pulling on. But somehow here, and through this bill of law, we had this, where it's essentially about, we were discussing half boards, we found some full board, so diet, that sort of half solution. Now here again we have this proposal about paying this residence tax per bed, where it is a poor use of the capacity itself, we want to try and give some suggestions there that doesn't hit us anyway. I think we'd, then we'd do a joint action, let's go and try to propose something to the ministry, then they'd listen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120467	Thank you, colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120468	I'd be the happiest if we didn't have to do it. If we could absolutely have in Slavonia the biggest tax we have, or the fee, because we would all be able to do that, absolutely pay out of the number of guests who come and of course that the criteria here that are proposed and generally that they must be and that not all places are the same, and that not all of them are the same and that there should be taken into account the diversity of each end. However, it is more important to me strategically, it is more important to me to bring this guest, and when the guest is there he will easily and the tenant or the hoteler will find funds to pay. Just let people have the opportunity, to have events, to brand various different events that can be on the monthly level and then know exactly why, where and when, in which part of Croatia is coming or which part of the county within our Slavonia and Baranja is coming and why and I think people need to know. We have, say, a Pannonian challenge which is extremely good [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120469	Comrade Curaj, next replica of Tomislav Sauch's Tomislav Sauch, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Curai, you commended this law, i.e. Art. 8. The tourism tax law. I agree with you in some ways, but I don’t think that article is entirely good because it is important to narrow down this concept of the family’s rope because it has thrown out very important members of that family, which are brothers and sisters. I think it's, I mean, every one of these, like, holiday property is part of some kind of grandfather, I don't think it's good to do that, put brothers and sisters in such a situation that one can't come to the other without paying a tourist tax at least not in that reduced form, so I think there's definitely two readings that need to be added to both brothers and sisters. As for this discrimination, i.e. non-discrimination of same-sex couples, I am glad that same-sex couples entered this article, but there is still a need to be small discrimination, it is discrimination for you, informal same-sex partners I think if they're formal inside, they should be informal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120471	Answer, colleague Curai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120472	Thank you. Yes, as far as we're concerned, we know that the arrangements of our properties and ownership relations, in order to be sure that I'm afraid, won't be able to regulate it at the level of implementation although, they only pay 70%, if I'm not mistaken by art. The 5th century, however, will be difficult to implement, precisely where it is divided, let's say, I don't know, it would also like to explain to us when it comes to shared ownership, then to what extent it can be considered as the owners of a narrow family. If we have more owners of one property at sea, whether they all have rights with their relatives or not, and here you would surely appeal once more to be considered, and here I agree with the informal life partner, if we are already referring to the Life Partnership Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120473	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120474	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today, in our first reading, there is a package of laws that regulates the system of tourist communities, tourist tax, membership in tourist communities that certainly needs to be modernised and adapted to the market as we have today in this tourist sector, but I also think there is plenty of room for discussion and improvement of this package of laws and since we are in the first reading and since we have been in the debate for a long time, we would not have pointed out these positive parts but would already be based more on the proposals that I have. So it would start with the first Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism. It is absolutely a positive goal of this law, or direction towards destination management, but as a person coming from the continent, from Slavonia and Baranja, I have to show concern for the continent because I have a feeling that this law certainly solves problems and challenges in the coast, but it does not solve, at least to the extent necessary, the problems and challenges we have on the continent today. For example, limiting the gross amount of salary to employees to 30% of income and abolishing TZ after crossing those 30% put into an awkward position of the tourist community itself in Slavonia, mainly when we look at employee ratio data and salary shares. For example, TZ Baranja, which has three employees, has a share of 41.96% while TZ Osijek has eight employees and a share of 34.23% and essentially such a bill is insufficient while, for example, TZ in Dubrovnik has 21 employees and a share in salaries of 15.62% and this is a really clear example that, given the revenues of this bill, it is impossible to fulfil all these many tasks proposed by law and put before TZ. I therefore believe that this provision should either be deleted or adapted to the continent and should be put at least 50 per cent and more because, basically, field workers and financial sustainability are a prerequisite for the operation of the TZ and should enable the system to develop as we certainly make this provision difficult for TZ because it is unrealistic to place in the same position of the coast and continent or rich and developed from those less developed or undeveloped destinations. As far as the Tourist Tax Act is concerned, this law introduces the category of flat-rate fee, meaning by the number of beds but I believe that due to the well-being of the continent it is also necessary to leave the possibility of charging on the principle of nights achieved precisely because of our OPGs and hosts in the household. Renters in these undeveloped areas do not simply have a sufficient number of overnight stays, so such a flat-rate payment by the number of beds to the same in the future will certainly represent one significant financial burden. What I think would be good, and what I'm proposing is the introduction of a cruise tax, for passengers on river cruises. For example, Osijek and Vukovar, which achieved 55, i.e. Vukovar 250 cruise arrivals in this way, would provide significant income to the TZ itself, which essentially bear responsibility for the development and promotion of tourism products and unfortunately do not make any income possible based on their results and we see here that they have them. I would also briefly touch the 2.5% allocations for undeveloped areas that remain at the same levels, but I believe that because of this need these areas have to increase to a potential 5% detachment from the tourism fee for undeveloped people precisely because of the need for a stronger development of tourism on the continent itself. When we talk about the Law on membership fees in TZ and when it comes to membership fees, I welcome this reduction in administrative burden and business costs of the economy but the reduction in the number of rates to be calculated from 28 to 5 so far, which is a significant administrative discharge but for the continent, this also means a reduction in the self-sufficiency that we advocate mainly when we take into account that we have already reduced membership fees that in the share of income on the continents amount to over 80% of income. I certainly am in favour of reducing parafiscal burdens but I also believe that I should find some new model to replace these funds because, contrary to the lower incomes, the self-sustainability of most continental TZs, cities and municipalities essentially comes under the questionnaire. It was mentioned today, and I would mention it, and what might have to be defined differently in this bill is the payment of the fee of telecommunications companies that would pay the same in the area where the company headquarters is, which would mean that although services are used in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, the most would essentially profit the city of Zagreb. I think that this distribution would be fairer if it were to work according to the model as well as for banks that the allocation of funds is allocated according to the number of residents, municipalities, cities or county. In this way, more than €5.5 million would be allocated to the continent depending on the number of inhabitants within a specific TZ and if the banks were added to the ratio of their income, the continent would have an additional revenue of $3.7 million, which together makes up €9.9 million, which is indeed a significant asset for the continental part of Croatia. Certainly, I believe that modernising and adapting the law to current trends is necessary and necessary, but I also believe that there are plenty of opportunities for improvement. In particular, here I think of this greater concern for the continental part of the Republic of Croatia where, unfortunately, the bill threatens and shuts down a large number of TZs and given the situation we have in the same situation, it is also necessary to look at them differently because the conditions and criteria on the continent and on the coast are simply not equal, the needs are not equal and more investment is necessary to achieve the objectives of the tourism development strategy itself and this is the even development of tourism throughout the Republic. I would also point out that these excellent results that we have on the coast and our entire tourist product are the result of 20 and more years of public investment of the state. I therefore believe that now it is time to give stronger support from the national level to exactly continental, undeveloped tourist destinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120475	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. We have a replica, dear colleague of Love Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120476	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mikulić and you and I come from the same continental area and we have the same problems as we do. So I will just briefly refer to this ratio of membership fee and residence tax, i.e. tourist tax. For example, in my Brod-Posavina County and Zadar, the membership fee in Brod-Posavina County for 2017 is 1.43 million kuna and the residence fee is 0.31 million kuna while in Zadar the fee is 9.5 million and the tourist tax 42.71 million kuna and any reduction in membership fee would mean a reduction of income and, if we do not compensate for these revenues, would lead to the sustainability of the tourist community throughout the continent and, by reducing the tourism community's income, will affect this 30% share of wages costs which, when that border is crossed, we will abolish the tourist communities in those areas. Currently in my Brod-Posavina County, in the town of Slavonski Brod...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120477	I thank my colleague Maximchuk. Answer, colleague Mikulić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120478	I thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maximchuk, you're absolutely right. Indeed, with us on the continent, membership is the largest part of the income and only the reduction today-to-morrow suspension, it would lead to certain and shutting down certain tourist communities and here, I also pointed out in my debate, I think it is necessary to work on some new models for the financing of tourist communities on the continent, because this is simply how we bring about the very existence of a tourist community that needs to be strengthened and not put into these unpleasant situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120479	I thank my colleague Mikulić for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120480	Thank you very much. Now here's what I'm going to do to make up for the end of my debate I've had. When we talked about the tourist tax, I mentioned actually the problem, and here I once again opened the issue of work, just the smallest ones, the OPGs about which we made something difficult and with this we are asking their investment. I don't know why it's necessary for someone who has set up certain funds in their family economy, arranged certain spaces because we have a number of abandoned economies that are trying to function exactly and in this one controversial way, so that now, apart from not making those revenues that have always been expected in some tourist activity, but rather by their engagement, by wanting to help a particular area, invests and doesn't expect a real return, we're also burdening it. I think there should be a better solution. The issue of precisely the fees imposed by cruisers that both sea and rivers, it is certain that for those destinations that may have current problems with their arrival that might in some ways be a little bit relaxing because in that part of the cruise, significant attention is being invested primarily, engagements and promotions are being done and we see that many problems arise, they should not be excluded in some way from the standard offer. 2.5% separation for tourist undeveloped areas, and when it's in percentage, it seems small. 2.5% is a small amount when we say what 2% is 12 million this will be the same relatively small amount that we consider that in those underdeveloped areas it will not make a difference what everyone expects because I say, it is nice to see that there is a single amount, it is certainly the offerer of praise, but on the other hand, the amount is insufficient, it is an incentive for the promoter to come up with an attempt to imagine that these funds might actually be cumulatively with other measures, so until another reading that we know that these are still more significant amounts. We mentioned the membership law here and Austria as one example, so we should say that Austria has no membership fee, it is voluntary, right, there is, but it is not mandatory. We've made one move maybe to be closer to Austria, we've freed up a whole series of activities because a number of entrepreneurs have had observations just because they're obliged to pay those fees, they think it's another one of those parafiscal charges and we're going in that direction, but you should think maybe with a team that's our role model, to eventually get close through these models and reduce the burden. I also know that this creates financial burden and that is where we come to the important, crucial detail, the tourist community should be the wish of everyone in this area. So it's not just a commitment. So it must be a desire and local self-government that recognises tourism as an activity that will create a certain shift where some natural potential can be exploited, where the economy should have benefits from it, and there all have to find actually one common language. In this way, it was burdensome through fees rather than yielding results, it was dissatisfaction. If the results of the work of the tourist communities were top-of-the-line, bringing visitors, actually bringing visitors and tourists, then surely those who had to separate would have recognized it as a development component and would have made it easier to give. This way we really have bad diameters, we need to recognize such bad examples and start cutting it. I mean, the beginning was a long time ago, but we need to cut them as soon as possible. I already mentioned that part of my colleague Bulj mentioned a part about telecommunications because if we have really telecommunications networks that cover all of Croatia, if we all use cell phones, then I think it would be fair for that share to be distributed to all of us evenly, it would be the most correct thing, because this seat would certainly make everyone feel cut off. So here's what I'd end up with, then I'll send that basic message in the final address, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120481	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. We're moving on to the next debate, the esteemed colleague of Sach is not present. End of the line, dear fellow Panenic. Dear fellow Panenic, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120482	Thank you very much, esteemed representatives of the tourism ministry of colleagues and colleagues. Through today's debate, we have actually seen this law and given some praise, and we have also made certain suggestions, and I hope that the Proposer will respect these considerations that we've been having, because it's really very positive, and it would be very good for a law like this to get as much support as possible in the representative body that we're in. Because we all want, of course, to see real results through this reorganisation of good intentions. It is certainly one thing, that the system of the tourist community, since it represents an economic component, that it represents businessmen, one of the most important incomes, should be treated as well, and we all expect as much depolitisation as possible, the greater emphasis on results, that these results justify both investment and impositions that occur through precisely these connections of many entities. Of course we can't handle the laws. What we have to insist on is work on innovation, it's work to recognize the best among us, and you're the best in what I've highlighted and in the debates, to be those who will work on these tasks that bring the biggest incomes. Indeed, the human structure must become an alpha and omega of the development of the tourist offer, because if it prevails, the position of many politicians who believe that tourist communities are some fancy offices, in which they should be beautiful or suitable or like this or such, then we miss the topic. There must really be those most capable, who will each day bite, who sacrifice themselves most for the community they come in because pay is not the only criterion. The measure is what results from the work of such individuals. And that's how we're gonna make it. Because it is certain that in the future, we are expected to have 2 big battles, one big battle is that the Mediterranean tourism component preserves as much rating as possible, to fight for its position, and the other is that in the continent we are creating an offer, which can once mate some more attractive, currently more attractive destinations that have certain other countries. And here we will look for opportunities and it is good that here in this House we have in this debate and MPs from the continental part, who warn of their part, and we also have those who advocate the development of tourism at sea. And it is certain that the intention that goes into this will receive numerous criticisms and praises, until the second reading, we expect one quality, even better, even better proposal, which we will be able to support with satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120483	Thank you. We have a final word on behalf of the motionary, dear colleague Tonchi Glavina, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120484	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians. Here, we had opportunities in this debate this afternoon, tonight we also hear about bats, castles, rhubarbs, repeaters, hired power, horse financing, even among other things, income tax and amounts paid by private renters in the flat. I see here, fellow Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance, and then maybe he's better off addressing those issues, and as far as income tax is concerned, why am I talking? Because parliamentarians today simply confused the issue of income tax in the debate, they confused the issue of tourist membership fees, tourist fees, these are things that have nothing to do with each other and others. So in the part of which we talk about the flat-rate and the residence tax, as far as private owners are concerned, it differs and is not the subject of these income tax laws, i.e. a private renter who pays according to the Income Tax Act. So in that part, we need to make things very clear. So, we talked about a lot of maybe irrelevant things, but we didn't talk enough, at least in my own opinion, we haven't talked long enough and important enough about practically one big reform, which these laws just did. So, the current legislative framework that we have and which regulates the systems of tourist communities is one legislative framework for Central European countries from the 1980s. Mr. last century. So it is essential to discuss how necessary it is to change this system and how much today's system, the legislative framework that we have right now, can adequately respond to the challenges of the markets that we have and to the innovations in the tourism that are happening. You are today in several of your discussions, yourself cited how tourism is practically changing very quickly, as perhaps the IT industry. And you're one part right, and that's exactly why he regrets that according to these changes that happen and the innovations that happen at the world level, we are just correcting and changing our legislative framework and the system that governs all of our levels. So, what you would like to get the impression maybe by looking at a little wider picture and expanding context that you may not find in this law changes not only the management and mode of operation, but the change of one mental set, the whole system of tourism that we want to implement and how we want to adapt our tourism system and the entire portfolio to remain, not only to remain competitive, but to move on, move forward, step forward in terms of development and further competitiveness of Croatian tourism. It is mentioned here today, therefore, that tourism is 20% of Croatian GDP or more or less, but certainly one extremely important economic activity that binds itself to a lot of activities and a lot of sectors and which is terribly important and that we can use as an engine and a generator for the development of the entire economy and the Republic of Croatia, and that is exactly what we do. So, in this amendment to the legislative framework that we are implementing, we have looked at the best examples of world practice, and we wanted our system to adapt precisely to the best examples of world practice, just so that these same world powers and tourist powers and players could be fought on the international market from which we draw from that market, from which we are fighting and for which guests want to visit us and to see us. So we used examples such as Visit Britain, such as Visit Portugal, such as the Austrian Tourist Organisation, and let's say the three specifically list because they may be the best examples from world practice, let's say Visit Britain is the best example of world branding practice, Visit Portugal is one of the best examples of transformation in digital marketing because since 2012 the total of their tourist budgets they have put into digital marketing. And we have an example of possibly a tourist organization in Austria which is the best example of the development of tourism products. So we looked at the world’s best examples, and we wanted to adapt and compare our system to them and set a way to meet that challenge. This model of DMO or destination management that we propose through this package of tourism laws is one model that has practically been brought to life on all these world markets or giants there since the 2000s. And one of the things that I can just say in the debate about these laws that I want to talk about, which is that I regret that we, these laws and these changes to the legislative framework, but we haven't spent 15 years or 10 years now and we're doing it now. But, of course, for good things and for good changes, it's never too late, and we will certainly succeed in what we want, which is to transform the whole system and to respond to today's challenges. This package of tourist laws, he if we look at it individually by the laws, so he sends one very clear message, one very clear arrangement, and it is very important that we look at this whole context to understand these individual articles that we communicate about, to understand these limitations, to understand some new funds that have been created and so on. So, as far as the Law on Tourist Communities is concerned, this model of destination management is now heading towards creating tourist destinations at the lowest level. So creating recognizable tourist destinations that can not compete within the Croatian market or Croatian brand, but which today will have the potential to present and brand as world-wide destinations. So, just starting from that local level, we wanted to make assumptions that destinations are being created. Logical destinations, not some new ones, are based on some administrative lines that we will draw or change or make, but precisely on the logical tourist market principles that already exist, so the destinations that already exist, which are already in a certain way in our tourist practice, are recognized. So we just want to make them truly complete and to breathe and to develop and to exist, to function marketly as one. And this model of the law is exactly what we are allowing, but not a way to force anything and to force anyone legally, but to put the context of rewards or financial motivations together, because sometimes you have, sometimes it's easier to agree and cooperate at local level, sometimes it's harder, but when you have a common interest, it's a promotion, when you have a common financial interest, and when absolutely everyone gets, and nobody loses, then it's a real assumption of joint action and functioning. And that's what we want to do through it. We've just been through the assignments and redefine these levels, so we've put it together and set it up. So, our local tourist communities now, from now on, must be significantly more focused on the development of tourism products. This is something that we have recognized at the level of the entire system of tourist communities, which may be one of our major drawbacks. So we're not developing enough tourist products at the lowest level, we want to point them in this direction. So what they have is the specificities of the destination and the specificities of the offer they have, every destination knows best, we want to focus their activities put there. Regional, therefore, is the second level, regional tourist communities or county tourist communities we have given them much more important roles in terms of strategic planning and development of the management of tourism systems, information, research and marketing. So we gave these regional tourist communities the opportunity to really unite all these local tourist communities and to represent them as such, to manage them and to keep them within borders, brands, tourist products and all that has been drawn up at that higher level. And in the distribution and financial way, we are now giving the equation that is complex not only to decentralisation decisions on our destinations, management of destinations, but also to decentralisation and funds that are very important. And speaking of which, through all three laws, this model of decentralisation is withdrawn, so the Ministry of Tourism is of the opinion that we are very ready to bring down serious and important decisions on tourism and development of destinations to lower levels. Tourism is something that doesn't happen in the central government, tourism is something that happens at the lowest level. Tourism is something that our citizens on, in their municipalities, cities, counties live with, and this particular model of destination management is set up in a way that they all have much more influence in what they want to develop and how. So with those tools we gave them we give them responsibility and that's something we have to accept as a fact. So, from now on, that is, since these laws start and go into realisation, responsibility for the development of individual destinations will, in the most part, be in their own hands. And they will fully have the ability to decide, even in some financial matters, but also in particular what, how to invest and develop. Because we have to, one thing you have to bear in mind, all the time we're talking about these tourist laws, and that's who the founders of the tourist communities are, because we often hear the wrong information at the highest levels, who's the founder or who runs the tourist communities. The founders of tourist communities are legal persons who are therefore members of the tourist community those who provide services and those within one administrative border whether it is a unit of local self-government or a unit of regional self-government, so it is they who should manage the entire system. I say, of course, one of the administrative boundaries, and right through the model of these laws, we've been trying to set things up in such a way that we give them additional tools to decide what they want and what they want, to give them more resources and to give them the initiative and to give them responsibility. Because already in Croatia, we already have very many examples of good practice where we are destinations, where destinations have indeed made great steps on their own, by handling their own policies, our own budgets, their own thinking and their own activity. We want to encourage this, and we believe that with finances and decision-making we will do exactly that, tourism is absolutely ready for decentralisation and that is what we want to do, and we haven't done anything overnight or fast, you saw in the bill of law, so these laws come into force with 1.1.220. We left all of 2019 as a year of adjustment, so, the year in which our expert team will be on the ground where we will fully organise things, prepare people, prepare a system, so when the law comes into force, then we will be absolutely ready for these changes that will be very good. And that we have reduced the wage limit of employees to 30% of the total income of the tourist community, and let me explain to you, there have been a lot of questions today about this, so let me explain why we did it and in what way. So, the cost of the salary, we're talking about the total cost, so in the tourist sense we have the original income and we have the total income, the original revenues are these revenues from the tourist membership fee and from the tourist tax, and the total revenues are therefore, all that the tourist community can achieve by its action, so we're also talking about donations from the municipal... or the county budget, we are also talking about EU funds, among other things, and all that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, the question is, one thing I would like to do is talk about when we talk about pay limits, because we need to change the way we think and the way we look at certain things. So, the tourist community, if you say 50 or more of its incomes, spends on the cost of the salaries of its employees. There is a very real question, which is its purpose and which is its objective. Because the purpose of the tourist community and its tasks prescribed by law is mostly, therefore, promotion, creation, distribution of guests, informing guests, depending on what level we are talking about. And if she doesn't have the means to do it, she absolutely doesn't have her own purpose, because this isn't, the tourist communities don't offer consultants to the servants, so we, most of the cost, will have in the employees or in the workforce no, they are therefore a system that should focus one most of their incomes precisely on promotion, in information marketing, in distribution and so on. And that's exactly why we put that limit on it. Now, we're about these laws, we didn't put a limit on it, and that's it. We have practically created an opportunity for everyone, who eventually does not enter that category to make additional revenues and not small additional revenues. So through this fund for associations that we have made, through both laws, so, the Law on Tourist Memberships and the Law on Tourist Tax, we have created one budget, approximately for now, by income, residence fees and membership fees of approximately 15 million kn. So the new 15 million kn, all of which are conditional, which cannot meet these criteria can be obtained. Because we want to change the mental set of people who work in a system of tourist communities, in a way that's not enough what they've been doing so far. Because, therefore, we have created an opportunity for you to have extra income through the Trust Fund. We have created an opportunity for you to have additional income through EU funds, and now, if we talk mainly about undeveloped areas, I am working on a model that they can participate in that fund for co-financing of their own part that they couldn't do before, and we opened that channel. And of course there's always that co-financing channel by local self-government units or regional ones in the form of some projects or anything. So they've created practically, they have 3 sources where they can exhaust new revenues, and yet I say, since I'm talking about total income, everything counts, so not only the original incomes, and we want them to try and make one more project than they've ever done before. We want to talk to the other 2 or 3 tourist communities that are in a similar situation, and we want to go to a joint association that doesn't have to be formal, so no tourist community has to be shut down, they can function and cooperate on so-called. the project model and we made it possible in this law. We want you to think differently and we want you to share your costs of employees or material costs in several tourist communities, in which case we have absolutely no problem with this constraint of employee costs. So we want to change this way of perceiving the systems of tourist communities, and we want them to change the way they work and look much more beyond their original incomes and look for new projects and new ways to do it, and I say we created those assumptions, so we put it on. But, okay, we'll respect your comments and your suggestions, as to whether 30% or 40% and we've been doing our analysis and we didn't accidentally come to this number, because we saw in one large part that one large part and the largest part of both the county and the tourist community fall into the quiet 30% and that one small part with one, literally one additional project or similar can achieve it. But in any case, we're going to seriously consider your comments and see if we can do it in a certain way or maybe put on some kind of longer adjustment, if necessary, so instead of these years, we're going to put on more, there have been such suggestions, and we're going to talk about it. Anyway, but we have to take that step forward. We need to take a step forward and we need to change the mental set in a way that we ask for more, that we need to create some new revenues, and also don't forget, since we've changed and the residence tax over the past 2 years, and now that, under the new law, the tourist tax will be decided to decentralisation at a lower level, the probability is that, of course, because of the increase in the general economy that is going on for the mandate of this government, these incomes that exist will also grow systematically. And I'll tell you one more thing, you took one example of the county, say two examples of the two counties in Slavonia in terms of the share of these costs. And I'll tell you that with these new revenues, which they have, therefore, by the very distribution that we are now changing, and that's the subject of the Tourist Tax Act, we're giving 5% more funds per division of the county or regional tourist communities compared to the previous law, and on average, when you look at all counties, or county tourist communities at the level of the Republic of Croatia, you get an increase of their income by about 30-35%. So, to keep everything the same, just because of this distribution of financial, so that we, all of them, will have bigger incomes, absolutely, is just a question of who will have a percentage of what, depending on how large his membership fee is, or how large his residence tax is, or how much capacity he has in the county. So their incomes will grow by momentum, only because of how we've made that amendment to the law. And so, in that amendment to the Tourist Tax Act, which I mentioned, that fund of 2% is very important, it's one newspaper, so, besides increasing the distribution to county organisations, or regional organisations, we've reduced to national ones, we've created this fund for joints. Here, you have stated several times today that it would be worth considering that this fund is increasing, whether it will be big enough and, it is the same, it is a good question and a good topic because indeed, we have, apart from what we have been preparing for the past year alone, we have been on the ground and we have already made examples of good practice that others can see, so we have made a tourist community, so we were one of the initiators and someone who covered in the administrative and legislative sense of these events, and we have provided some additional means for, let's say, creating a tourist together Imota, which is a combination of 8 municipalities and one city. Also, we are now working on the model for Gorski Kotar, 5 Slavonian Countys in the joint project, the island of Krk already works in this way, so we have several examples of good practice, which are already being realized, the island of Hvar, let's say that. So, it's something we just have to do, which is just the market and the competition in which we operate invites us to do it, and we'll keep doing it, and normally when there's one such serious change in the system that's going on, there's a lot of resistance, and it's the most of the people that are within the system itself, but it's normal, we're all together, and we're going to take one step forward, and I know, and here, and here's when Agent Kleman, while he's in the former term, introduced and when he was working in the e-Visitor system, and it's also been very much resistance at all levels, and it's most within the system itself, and later he's recognized as one of the best innovations in tourism at the level of digital transformation and where we get awards and recognition. So the changes are, the fear of change is natural, but also, there can't be anything to keep us from moving forward. As far as the tourist membership fee is concerned, the message is very clear, so discharging the economy. We, given the reform plan, are the national legal reforms of the government of the Republic of Croatia to be implemented, we have, in accordance with this plan of discharging parafiscal duties and reduced that tourist membership, but in what way? We're a waste of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, and we've burdened the banks. And we've changed the model of how tourist membership is calculated for private tenants who have not paid more than 50% of them at all because we're now introducing a flat-rate payment and in this way we're practically not going to have any less income in the tourist membership fee, which is a very good step. Finally, in the opening presentation of the IDS Club, there were many negative comments on the laws and on changes and adaptations. I am here, I said earlier in my presentation, I'm just sorry that something like this hasn't happened before, one change of which was necessary, which we haven't spent before, so we are in the term of this government, precisely on the 5 laws that we are completely changing or adapting to the market and the conditions in which we operate. These three laws are very important in this context and will help us to follow up on innovations in tourism and to follow this competition with big tourist players that we have to fight every day. I would only like, therefore, that some of these changes were made before and possibly in the mandate of the previous government, which is here now has some negative comments on the laws, but in principle, what is now being done and what is proposed is very good, and that is a step that we need to follow our competitiveness and follow what is waiting for us in the future. In this way, I thank you all, in all your instructions, in all the comments and contributions that have been very affirmative and I am pleased that, here, parliamentary representatives are also following tourism in a very good way and in a very good way, practically from all sides and I thank you for these instructions and I hope that by the second reading we will find some points that we agree on, which we will correct and which we will possibly further explain so that there will be no confusion because these are changes that we have to make simply because we expect the market and what we expect from us is a match that awaits us for the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120485	I thank the Secretary of State for this exhaustive closing statement. We've got... You're giving up. Okay. There's no replica. Dear fellow Panenic, you already had 3 so you have no more rights. Thank you for the debate. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Tonchi Glavina and the Head of the Ministry of Tourism, Anamaria King for the reasons. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120486	Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and promotion of Croatian tourism, first reading, P.Z. number 462. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 89 votes for and 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120695	We're moving to the next agenda points. Now they're... I'd like you to take your seats, and those who don't want to discuss go outside. There are two final drafts of the law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Based on an article. 247. I suggest uniting these two points of the agenda. Does anyone mind? No, thank you. So, I find that we have united these two points of the agenda, these are the points of the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation No. 2017/1131 on monetary funds, second reading, CZ No. 404. and Final draft law amending and supplementing the accounting law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 535. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204, 206 in respect of art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the final draft laws. Mr. Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120696	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As the chairman pointed out, we have two legislative proposals before us, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/11 31 on monetary funds. The second is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. As regards this first law, it should be pointed out that at the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 28 September this year, a conclusion was reached which adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Regulation and was not addressed to the observations, proposals and opinions in order to prepare a final draft of the law on a solution proposed by this law does not differ from that set out in the draft law. In addition to certain additions in a nomotechnical sense and better clarity of the text of the law itself. To remind ourselves of the Monetary Fund Regulation itself, it entered into force on 20 July 2017 with the application of 21 July 2017 and introduces significant changes in the mode of operation and in the business of money funds in order to ensure a higher level of protection for investors, to level the operating conditions and level of investor protection in all EU Member States, and to reduce the impact of market shocks on money funds. The Regulation also prescribes further stricter requirements for monetary funds, primarily in relation to investment policy and asset valuation, in relation to liquidity and investment diversification. As regards the current legislative regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia, it is important to say that the funds have so far not been regulated as a specific type of investment funds but have already been managed by the management company's investment funds under the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering. At the end of the first quarter of this year, the net assets of the investment funds, which were operating in the Republic of Croatia, accounted for around 40% of the total net assets of all investment funds or translated into 7 billion figures and 0.2.20 million kunas of total net assets. Otherwise, the total assets of investment funds amounted to HRK 18.4 billion. Under the new requirements of the regulation, current funds will be divided into monetary and not monetary, which means that money fund management companies must decide whether to become cash funds and continue to operate as such or become so-called. funds that aren't cash. In both cases, the company must be granted an appropriate authorisation, i.e. the license of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency or the HANF. If the management company wants the existing cash fund to continue to operate as a cash fund, the operation of the fund will have to adapt to a stricter requirement than it has been so far and in accordance with the Monetary Fund Regulation. As far as the law itself is concerned, it will allow for the implementation of the Monetary Funds Regulation as follows. The HANF shall be designated as the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation referred to in the law, the authorisation procedure for the establishment and management of money funds shall be regulated, the cash funds shall be entered in the register of money funds managed by HANF, the exemptions from the investment limits prescribed by the Monetary Funds Regulation shall be prescribed. The supervisory measures authorised by the HANF to impose as its powers are also prescribed and serious and easier infringements are prescribed for management companies and the level of fines for individual infringements to which the Monetary Fund Regulation applies. Finally, the EU-wide Monetary Fund Regulation was adopted in the first plan in order to protect investors and the need for future cash funds to meet the requirements for sudden purchase of shares and market shocks. And it is evident that this Monetary Fund Regulation will affect the Croatian market, i.e. management companies, should in a clear, transparent, understandable and easily accessible way inform investors in existing monetary funds of changes in the objectives, fund and risk investment strategies related to investment in funds, as well as the specificities of individual funds created just as a result of these changes and all with a purpose of greater investor protection. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, we should only visit that the applicable law in relation to the regulation is related to the accounting issue of the accounting of entrepreneurs, the classification of entrepreneurs and groups of entrepreneurs, accounting documents and accounts, the application of financial reporting standards, annual financial reports, the public publication of annual financial reports, the register of annual financial reports and the controls carried out. And this bill is about a few minor amendments to the Accounting Act which we believe will contribute to the further discharge of entrepreneurs and have a positive impact on the economy as a whole. The most important news, originally perhaps it's primarily the abolition of the so-called. the mandatory licensing of the accounting officer. Therefore, the applicable Accounting Act shall contain an obligation which shall be prescribed if an entrepreneur entrusts the performance of accounting operations and accounting functions to other legal or natural persons they must then be licensed to carry out such transactions under a specific law. That provision was to enter into force on 1 January 2019. Here it may be convenient to say the structure of entrepreneurs according to the register of annual financial reports conducted by FIN, so as to see how many such obligors would apply to the conduct of business books. So according to the 2017 register of 120 thousand and 81 entrepreneurs, 107 thousand 635 are micro entrepreneurs, 10 thousand 717 small, 1400 medium and only 329 large entrepreneurs. The proposed suspension of the introduction of mandatory accounting licensing is the result of the work and the implementation of work group analyses that have been carried out by the Ministry of Finance and all relevant stakeholders are included. It is also included, professional associations such as HUP, HOC and the like. It was concluded that the introduction of a licence at one point was not opportunised and that it was necessary to prevent additional costs that would inevitably be passed on to micro and small entrepreneurs who make up the largest part of the entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia through an increase in the price of licensed accounting services. We further stress here the European Commission's position which does not support the introduction of new obligations for certification of professions or voluntary certifications remains, of course, possible. Of course, the Ministry of Finance will continue to monitor the accounting services market and consider measures to ensure the quality of financial reports with minimal administrative and financial burden on entrepreneurs. With regard to the discharge of entrepreneurs, the second one, in our opinion, is an important amendment or addition to the way in which accounting documents are kept. The amendment of the law allows for additional administrative redundancies of entrepreneurs in such a way as to allow entrepreneurs to convert EU paper accounting documents into electronic records for their preservation and archiving. As you know, the current obligation to keep such documents in paper form is the deadlines prescribed from permanent to at least 11 years, then we can figure out for ourselves how much space and capacity it takes to preserve and preserve such documents in terms of archive material. It is of course important to adhere to this electronic format, it is important to adhere to the provisions governing the credibility of accounting documents or to convert the same documents into electronic form and to be neatly drawn up in a way that is identical to that in paper form. We also have two amendments to the new Audit Act, which took place in 1.1 this year, one refers to the content of the audit reports, and it is important to note that the Revision Act has now prescribed the content and details of the audit report, since such a provision now overlaps with the provisions of the Accounting Act, here it has been approached to move that provision from the very Accounting Act itself because it is part of the new ones contained in the Law on Audit, which is the property of this law, and it is important that it is there. Second, the provision is related to public-interest entities, therefore, and there is the Revision Act of a specific category of entrepreneurs prescribed the obligation to negotiate legal audits with several audit companies. for the so-called public interest entities, to remind ourselves, are HNB surveillance entities, HANFA surveillance entities, legal persons listed on the stock market and legal persons designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. In order to comply with these provisions of this bill,... the provision that public-interest entities are also considered to be entrepreneurs who are independent and together with their subsidiaries during the previous and business years to meet one of the two prescribed conditions, the first is the average of more than 5000 workers and the second is that they have an activity greater than 5 billion kuna on the last day of the financial year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards better regulation of the work of branches and in the context of compliance with the Directive 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017, provisions relating to public publication obligations have been developed in certain aspects of company rights, and provisions of the laws governing a consolidated non-financial report have also been developed in order to clearly determine or demonstrate that the parent company and its subsidiaries are indeed included in the consolidated annual report. Finally, it is important to point out that this bill aims to enable additional administrative redundancies to be made available to entrepreneurs, i.e. to reduce costs for entrepreneurs and consequently the economy as a whole, while respecting the public interest and trust of investors in the developed financial reports of entrepreneurs. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120697	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have one replica, dear colleague Anton Kleman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120698	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coli Zrinašić, in this licensing, there were speeches on the Committee on Finance and we discussed this with our colleague Ivan. In fact, I would ask you to consider whether the ministry can in any way protect entrepreneurs from the consequences of misrepresentation of business events. So you know yourself that if the Ministry of Finance's inspection comes and determines the irregularities that are conditioned even by the false recording of business events, whoever carries the sanctions is precisely the company, or the responsible person in the company, and certainly not the accounting service. I was convinced that we would regulate it by licensing at least in action to protect entrepreneurs who did nothing wrong, that they had some kind of crime to punish them and not rarely with small penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120699	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120700	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your request. As you recall, we discussed on committees the responsibility of authorised persons in a particular legal person. Indeed, the Company Act is a newly established regulation or a material right from there, and it brings out this question that you yourself have said. In a particular section of tax advisors, in this case, when we have spoken now and the authorised accountants who would be authorized tomorrow, they are delegated powers to them, indeed at this time we have not settled it, primarily from the law on commercial societies. This does not mean that the President of the Administration cannot transfer certain tasks to both the constituencies and the competent persons in those bodies and bring his/her act to him/her/her/her obligations, rights and responsibilities. For the outside, in this case, we have, as we have said, intended to do so through the Tax Advisory Act, but, if you remember, in this House, such a provision was not proposed in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120701	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I am opening the debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the debate will be shared by respected counterpart Anton Kleman and respected colleague Vranjš. Here you go, Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120702	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with Associates, here's another reading, unfortunately another reading of the Law on the Regulation and the implementation of the EU regulation, because on all logic it should have been urgent, so in one reading solution, because when such material comes to the plenary session, we don't have a lot of options to change, that is, we don't have a chance to change at all, because we have to simply fit in, apply such regulations legally. It is only good to meet the plenary session itself, i.e. parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public with the content and then to apply the matter simply. So with this law too, I appeal if it is possible to introduce this practice for the future. This is what counterpart Schuker has repeatedly said about these EU regulations, and there is absolutely nothing to discuss. So, this regulation, as you yourself said, investment funds can be reregistered if they want to deal with money funds, even if they want to deal with monetary affairs. And briefly, through this regulation, strict EU rules apply, as these funds must operate on markets, in order to meet the requirements for the payment of investors, especially during major market stress. The single rules for the portfolio of the money fund are also necessary to ensure that money funds can be dealt with with with with with with with significant sudden requirements for the payment of a large number of investors, single rules for cash funds, are further needed to ensure the smooth functioning of the market, short-term financing for financial institutions, corporate issuers of short-term debt instruments and governments, etc. etc. So one technical regulation that defines this problem of reregistering practically investment funds into money funds and there's not much to add from what you said, every debate further is too high and here, I would leave, if this to a colleague, actually to the vice president to further debate that colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120703	Thank you, dear colleague Kleman, for continuing the debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120704	Thank you, Mr. President. I am in front of the Club in charge of discussing amendments and additions to the Accounting Act with the final draft law. What is important is that we will support this law in front of the club because it has a goal as well as a lot of other laws that we have passed lately, especially last year, for discharging an administrative entrepreneur, for reducing the costs for entrepreneurs and for possessing it, and for the economy as a whole. What is also very important, with regard to these changes in the Accounting Act, we take care of the public interest and, of course, that all financial reports and mandatory entrepreneurs are in the same way as to respect the interests of the potential investors who follow them. 6 key amendments are in this law, one section refers to a consolidated non-financial report that sets out clearly how it is done. Also, what is technically very interesting and reduces a lot of burden let's say and physically in accounting offices is the conversion of documents into electronic format, which allows all of these documents that have been stored in written form, i.e. in paper form, not only in writing, to be properly archived electronically, but prescribed clearly in how and given another possibility to edit all of these regulations. As far as other matters are concerned, we have a better arrangement of branches here, and clearly defined entities of public interest are defined, since we had, consequently, a new Law on State Property Management, a different definition of entrepreneurs who are, or in companies, legal persons of state interest. It is prescribed here that they are legal persons who employ more than 5000 workers and have an active activity of more than 5 billion kn. We recently passed the Revision Act, so that the format of the audit report is changed, and what is very important and what has been followed is the abolition of the so-called. the mandatory licensing of accounting officers that were to enter into force in 1.12019, we would estimate that this would be done by indeed great costs for entrepreneurs, and great problems among accounting agents. What is very important is that it is not something we make up ourselves and influence the poor quality of the provision of accounting services. Of course, other forms still need to improve the work of accounting and all documents that are thus adopted. But what is very important is that the European Commission does not support this certification either, because mandatory certification really has a bad impact on the prices of accounting services and the like. So there will certainly continue to be voluntary certifications, but no new accounting burdens will be done, and therefore entrepreneurs who would result in an increase in the prices of accounting associations. So I repeat once again that we support this law in front of the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120705	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vranesh. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120706	I'd like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues actually 99% of the things we have here for... My colleague said ahead, and then I'll be really, really short on everybody's joy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, I think it's very clear that two laws are harmonised here, so one lex specialis, and that in this case the Law on Audition with the Accounting Act, especially when we're talking about public-interest entities. I would only prescribe where the Agrokor issue is at this point, because we know what the main problem is and where are the reconnaissances and investigative actions about exactly financial reporting, because here when we talk about companies of public interest and which are defined in the final line and this is what we are harmonising the Accounting Act with the provisions of the Law on Auditing Art. The 43rd century 2 which is currently speaking and what the colleague said is that companies for over 5,000 workers and the activity are over 5 billion, so, both financially and non-financial, and I think we should observe in this segment exactly these provisions that are being coordinated because they are precisely required to have two independently interlinked auditors who oversee exactly consolidated balances. What is good and what we can say is that it goes in the direction of digitisation certainly when you look at a security document in form, we know that we have brought, I don't know, this year or last year, the law that it must be, for 10 years all records are kept, so, about business entities and business, in fact, events, therefore, will greatly help large systems and, of course, smaller ones that can be kept in digital form and that the same is recognised by the authorities. Absolutely, the reason we welcome the urgency is that from 1.1. we should have entered into the obligation to license an accountant, which, of course, according to the Committee and the working group that analyzed it, is not well according to the Directives and the European Parliament and the Council, that this activity has already been re-regulated, or that they require liberalisation of this very market of services, I think it justifies this time the urgency of this Act in order to put off the power of actually licensing and that it is more or less regulated as it has been proposed and here I would only briefly take advantage of this replica of my colleague Kleman who said about the responsibility for submitting the report, therefore, the Company Act is always and that is why we are talking about the responsible person in society who, of course, bears his responsibility with his signature the most financial reports and criminal and material. Of course, there is also the responsibility of professional services or other subs, let’s say both performers or engaged services, but it is regressive to today’s Law. This means that if someone has failed to record a particular business event and thus unrealizedly presented the situation on their balance sheets and cash flow reports or FTG, however, then, of course, it is the responsible person who will also be responsible for the legal person as an individual, of course, and the entire legal person responsible for this failure, and then they can, for financial reasons, ask for some compensation from an authorised company that has been carrying out or carrying out a financial accounting type of accounting. However, as is the legal responsibility or criminal responsibility, e, there may be a question to think about in this way and of course, it itself is the possibility of collecting these penalties if it comes to some j.d.o.s or some smaller companies in smaller businesses, and the penalties are not, unfortunately, quite not, 500.000 kn, 100,000 kn, and this does not mean a small company's failure to do business, and it can happen to us that even two companies fail to do so, so maybe in that sense we should look through a fund or something in such a way that it can be settled, which would be through some mandatory membership fee or whatever the accounting companies say they have to their clients, in order to avoid such situations. Here, I mean very briefly, the HNS Club will, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120707	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. Next debate on behalf of the SDP representative's club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, as regards the proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 2017/1131 on monetary funds, the law in question provides for the implementation of the Regulation directly applicable in all Member States to all investment funds which have the characteristics of money funds, in such a way as to determine the procedure of granting authorisation for the establishment and management of money funds, the area of work and the authority of the competent authority, as well as the infringement of conduct, and the amount of fines for individual infringements. The Monetary Fund Regulation introduces significant changes in the business of money funds, with a view to ensuring a higher level of protection for investors, equating business conditions, investor protection levels in all EU Member States, and reducing the impact of market shocks on money funds. Additional stricter requirements for monetary funds have also been prescribed. In the Republic of Croatia, money funds have so far not been regulated as a specific type of investment funds, but have been managed by management companies under the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering. Monetary fund management companies must decide whether to continue operations as cash funds or to become non-money funds, both cases require the approval of HANFE. As far as the Accounting Act is concerned, the main objective of the bill is to abolish the so-called "registration". the licensing of the accounting officer or the erasure of part of the provision. The 7th century is 4th century. The Accounting Act, and the issue of overlapping the Accounting Act and the applicable Audit Act, is also deleted from the Accounting Act in order to avoid overlapping norms in two Acts and legal certainty. Furthermore, in order to comply with the provisions of the applicable Revision Act, which prescribes the obligation for those entities to negotiate a joint audit, certain categories of entrepreneurs will become public-interest entities. In addition to those amendments, the provisions of the Accounting Act, which regulate a consolidated non-financial report, are clearly to establish that the parent company and its subsidiaries, in accordance with the provisions of the Law, are indeed included in a consolidated annual report, or in a separate report by another entrepreneur, and we do not see in the SDP Club any reason not to support these Laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120709	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for the debate. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate on these two agenda points. I would like to thank Mr. Secretary of State of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic and the head of the sector Ivana Ravlic Ivanovic for the reasons and answers. Thank you very much. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120710	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation No 2017/1131 on monetary funds, second reading, P.Z. Number 404. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No 2017/1131 on monetary funds. I find that most of the votes 94 for and 5 abstentions were passed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120736	We move to the next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Port Captain Act, second reading, P.Z. number 382. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for maritime, transport and infrastructure. I call on the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Oleg Butkovic to give us an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, the Port Captains Act is part of the overall reform of maritime legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through amendments to three key laws in the maritime sector. The new Law on port captains, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code and the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. At the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 28 September 2018, a conclusion was reached which adopted the proposal for a Law on Port Captains. This Final Proposal of the Law on Port Captains, which is presently before you today, does not differ significantly from the text of the Proposal for a Law on Port Captains, which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. The only major change from the first reading concerns the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusions on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority since 2 August 2018. Since 1 January 2019, the Agency for Waterways has ceased its work, and part of the work and national.../incomprehensible/..., the central centre has become the responsibility of the management organisation in the composition of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure responsible for the safety of navigation and, in that sense, amendments have been made to this text of the final draft law. As the main objective of this law has been repeatedly highlighted is to raise the quality of public services provided to citizens and economic operators by port captains and other navigation security services of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and we would especially like to provide more quality organisation of work and working time with urgent reactions in the context of the so-called emergency. ‘Golden hour’. We believe that to achieve this goal, it will contribute significantly to the establishment of a national navigation security centre as an internal establishment unit of the ministry, in which the National Centre for Harmonisation of Search and Rescue at Sea, the National Centre for the Control and Management of Maritime Transport and National RIZ Centre will act. In the event of emergency situations, this body will coordinate the activities of all constituencies in the marine area, inland seawater, territorial seas, protected ecological-fishing belt, epicontinental belt and internal waters of the Republic of Croatia. Although we can say that the level of safety of navigation in the field of RS jurisdiction is very good, there is still room for further improvements and improvements. Average annual port captainships receive about 1,300 to 1,400 reports of maritime accidents and accidents of all maritime facilities and emergency medical transport requirements from the island, which is why 454 search and rescue campaigns were organised in 2017, and until today in 2018 a total of 655 search and rescue and medical transport operations. In 2017, 765 persons and 254 water facilities were saved, and this year 1,072 persons and 447 facilities. Inspectors, authorised officers of the port captains carried out 10,000 inspections in 2017 related to the safety of navigation and surveillance of maritime goods, with a charge of €3.5 million for established offences. The provisions of this proposal strengthen the inspection powers and define more precisely how the inspectors and authorised officers of port captains act, in order to ensure more effective inspection and effective prevention of all illegal activities with particular emphasis on better protection of maritime goods from illegal use. The proposed law will lay down comprehensive limits, administrative territorial competences of port captains at sea, in the maritime area of inland waters, territorial seas, protected ecological and fisheries belts and epicontinental belts of the Republic of Croatia, and all to increase the efficiency of the operation of the entire service in implementing rules in the field of navigation security and environmental protection against pollution from maritime facilities and inland waterways. Furthermore, the specificities of the organisation of work and the working time of the design units working 24 hours a year will be regulated for the purpose of continuing carrying out navigation security tasks, ensuring continued availability and emergency response. The adoption of this law does not give rise to costs for which additional resources should be provided in the State budget, nor do these laws prescribe certain new rights within the state administration system. By taking over part of the operations so far carried out by the Waterway Agency, which pass over to the administrative organisation of the Ministry of the Sea, responsible for the safety of navigation or for the takeover of workers carrying out those tasks, shall not require additional resources in the State budget. Funding to cover all costs of the Waterway Agency and so far has been provided in the State budget under the division of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Thus, this law creates a new organisational framework as a basis for more efficient operation of port captains and other navigation security services. This, together with amendments to the Maritime Code and the new Law on maritime good and seaports, will contribute to achieving the reform objectives set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120738	I thank the respected minister, Mr. Oleg Butkovic, for further reasons of the final bill. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120739	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister Butković with his associate, colleagues and colleagues, this Law on port captains is part of a package that has already been announced, packages, a package of reform of maritime legislation covering this Law on port captains, then amendments to the Maritime Code and announced a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. These three laws will allow for the rise of the competitiveness of the maritime economy, raising levels of sea safety and safety, digitising all maritime services in the next three years, reducing administrative burden for citizens and economic operators, completing the social reform for seamen, and ensuring effective management of maritime goods. When we talk about the Law on port captains, then it should be said that the Law was passed in 1997, but that the organisation of navigation control, safety of maritime goods in Croatia has already been established through state bodies, state services for more than 244 years, which points to this tradition of Croatia as a maritime state, because few countries in the world can be praised by such continuity of carrying out, monitoring of navigation, safety of navigation at sea, as Croatia can. When the Law was passed in 1997, he made a clear distinction between the sea or port captains' captains' offices at sea, and later the Law on Inland water navigation and the Law on navigation and the ports of inland water, defined that there are also defined captains in river ports whose seats were therefore in the largest Croatian ports, in Vukovar, in Osijek, in Slavonski Brod and in Sisak. In my view, this is a better solution when we talk about port captains, that then all the captains are defined, their actions, their partial work, to be defined by one law which is the case here, so we return to the original system, where when we talk about port captains, we also mean 8 port captains from Rijeka, Senj, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploč, Dubrovnik and we mean four captains, port captains on rivers, as I have already mentioned, are were were werewolves, feels, Slavonic, boat and mammals. What is good and I welcome, and this is finally defined as the jurisdiction of a particular port captainship, because we have no boundaries today, neither units of local self-government, nor defined borders of units of regional or regional self-government, which is the County at sea, and often this situation can occur to certain problems in the functioning of both local and regional self-government units. First of all, when we talk about concessioning maritime goods, I welcome the fact that we are now prescribing the jurisdiction of a single port captainship by this law. So, this Law creates a new organisational form as a basis for more efficient operation of port captainships, and other navigation security services. Therefore, this new Law on port captains, together with amendments to the maritime code and the adoption of a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, will contribute to the achievement of the set reform objectives of this Government. In line with the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Port Captains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120740	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120741	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The SDP representative club supported this bill at first reading, not only supported it, but even commended the text of the Law on behalf of the Babic Club, as it did not change significantly compared to the first reading, we will also support this Bill proposal. I'd only like one explanation if possible. It seems to me that in the first reading, when the administration was mentioned within the Ministry, it was defined who was headed by the administration and what status it was, I couldn't find it in the final bill of law, I guess it was in accordance with the Law on the System of State Administration and the rest, so that's good. And the second question is the appointment of port captains. So, in the Bill's proposal, it is proposed that port captains as state officials be appointed by the Government. I think it would be good to see if this is a little too much of an appointment level, it would, compared to another, be the heads of the service or sector, whether it is necessary for the Government to appoint someone at that level, it is the level first under the assistant minister, or could be left to the minister, to make appointments after the same procedure. So I'm not sure it's necessary for the government to appoint officials in the ministries except the secretary-general at sectoral level. Of course, the question is which act will determine the salary of port captains, if appointed by the Government, it should therefore be at the level of the secretary general of the ministry, perhaps somewhat less. So by the time the law is passed, maybe you should just think about the part, so the powers of appointment of port captains from the government should be transferred to the minister. Of course, part of the Law concerns the interior structure of the Ministry. Each ministry would like to protect itself from any special law against frequent changes to the Internal Design Regulation, and in some way pressure, which from the Government, which from the Ministry of Finance, which from the Ministry of the Administration to change the internal structure and various rationalization and reduction, so if the goal was to protect the number of port captains at 12, then as a representative I can say that I see an excuse here, so these are 7 sea districts plus one in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Ploče and Dubrovnik, and these 4 come river, Osijek, Sisak, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar, so Sava, Drava, Danube and part of the Council, and in that regard to this Act, the SDP Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120742	I thank my esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk, for this debate. With this we have exhausted all the debates, I conclude the debate, I would like to thank again the respected Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Oleg Butkovic and Assistant Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Sinisha Orlic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m. with agenda item Proposal for a Law amending the Civil Protection System Act, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 537. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted in 19.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-10-0.u120743	Final proposal of the Port Captain Act, second reading, P.Z. number 382. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Port Captain Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 95 for and 1 vote against the Port Captain Act.
