ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121434	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers, along with fellow Members, Ms. President. Kristo, members of the Croatian Presidency... Assembly, respected students, University of Mostar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have before us a proposal for a Croatian Parliament declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the proposal of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. What is the purpose, or objective, of this debate and of this declaration, question. The Croatian people in BIH are indigenous and according to the Constitution one of the three constituent nations, but the constitutional rights of the Croatian people in the BIH are violated, imposed by the amendments to the Constitution and the electoral law. Based on an article. The 10th care and protection of parts of the Croatian people in other countries is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia. The preservation of political... The Croatian people in BIH are due to geostrategic opportunities, first-class strategic, Croatian, state and national interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taking into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia is on its own behalf, but on behalf of the Croats from the BIH, signatories 2 of the Washington International Agreement, which was created by the Federation of BiH and Dayton, which was created by the state of the BIH, and since these agreements are roughly violated to the harm of the Croats to the amendments imposed on the Constitution and entities and amendments to the electoral law, and as confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the BIH, the Republic of Croatia also has an obligation to return to the Constitution of Equality. As a member of the EU, Croatia is bound by documents and views of the EU institutions and by supporters of BiH's aspirations towards EU membership, Croatia has the right and obligation to monitor implementation, EU institutions' decisions. Here I will quote only a part of a paragraph in the European Parliament resolution, in February 2017 on a report on the progress of the BIH, which quotes, calls for a number of reforms to continue, in order to transform the BIH into a more effective, inclusive and functional state, based on the rule of law, which guarantees equality and demographic representation, of all constitutive peoples and citizens, and calls on all political leaders to work towards the introduction of necessary changes, including the reform of electoral law, taking into account the principles laid down in earlier resolutions, such as the principles of federalism, decentralisation and legitimate appearance. This paragraph 17, which highlights, again, the importance of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court case Ljubic, on the principle of constructiveness and equality of all constituent peoples to choose their legal political representatives on the basis of justified exchanges of representation in the home of the people of the Federation of BIH. Knowing that none of this has yet been implemented in the BIH on what the recently held elections in the BIH have witnessed, Croatia has both the right and the obligation to point out and demand that it be implemented with the aim of speeding up the EUBiH approach. Taking into account the fact that Croatia as a full member of the EU and NATO has an interest and responsibility, and the obligation to take care of regional security and stability, and given that instability in the BIH can have negative implications for the Republic of Croatia, and that the political economic and social situation in the BIH is extremely sensitive, given the geopolitical aspirations and action of international community entities that are not interested in joining the EU and NATO, the Republic of Croatia has obligations arising from membership in these associations, in the field of stability, security and all kinds of progress in Southeast Europe. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I want to remove immediately for a reason and the reason for this debate in this document recently held general elections in the BIH. The truth is, however, that the results of these elections further confirmed the need for a debate on the situation of Croats in the BiH, as the results showed disrespect, the Constitution of the inequality of the Croatian people in the BIH. During the 8th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the committee that holds the chair held a thematic open session with the subject of the Croatian issue of BIH. Unfortunately, in the Croatian public, and then, and neither was there enough hearing nor interest in the matter. During the 9th term of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the committee, 10 June 18. The thematic meeting of the Open Committee on Croatians outside Croatia was also held with the topic of the Croatian Parliament declaration on the position of Croats in BiH and the European route of BiH, which presented the draft declaration to the members of the Committee and also invited representatives of the Croatian institution. My colleagues and colleagues, participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament as a full-time representative for three years, had the opportunity to communicate with the so-called so-called. to ordinary Croatian citizens, as well as to many persons from the political, cultural and media sphere, and concluded that these in most well-intentioned people have insufficient knowledge about BiH and the strategic Croatian state and national interest in preserving the constitutionality and political subjectivity of Croats in BiH. For the sake of proper understanding of the BiH state and the position of Croats in BiH, it is important to recall the historical and political principles that BiH is founded on. Throughout history, there were three clearly defined identity-based groups that made up the vast majority of the population. The principle of equality of the three nations is also clearly embedded in the first modern document that speaks of BiH's sovereignty and its internal arrangement. In the Resolution adopted at the first session of ZAVNOBiH held in Mrkonjic City in 1943, I quote: "The determination of the people of BiH is that their country, which is neither Serbian nor Croatian, nor Muslim, but both Serbian and Croatian and Muslim communities will be gathered together to ensure the full equality of all Serbs, Muslims and Croats. ... BiH is defined as a multinational state and the fact that the date today in BiH is marked as the official statehood day testifys that all three constituent nations are an integral part of its political history in BiH, as well as the main characteristic of its current statehood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH stand alone, parallel to... The crisis in the former Yugoslavia has been under way by political processes to define the future of BiH itself in which the actors were just elected political representatives of the three constituent nations represented by the national parties, the HDZ of BiH on behalf of the Croats, the SDA on behalf of Muslims and Bosniaks and the SDS on behalf of Serbs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Different views of BiH's structure came out immediately, both with regard to its internal arrangement and its position in a possible future common state. In doing so, the Muslim Bosniak side advocated state independence for unitary, internal arrangements. The Serbian side advocated the stay of the entire BiH or at least its majority in some kind of crummy Yugoslavia. The Croatian side advocated leaving Yugoslavia and a federal structure according to the national territorial principle i.e. Federal units with national majority one, two and three nations. It is important to stress that almost 25 years after BiH's peace was established today, similar political paradigms are present on the political scene to testify that neither the international issue has been resolved nor a stable consensus on its internal structure has been reached in BiH. BiH declared independence after a referendum held on February 29th and March 1st, '92. the year voted 66.7% of BiH's eligible voters, of whom 99.7 supported independence. We see the results of the referendum, it is evident that the highest percentage of turnout was recorded in the majority Croatian municipalities and environments, and given the fact that Croats then accounted for 17.4% of the population and that Serbs were almost completely bicotting the referendum. And it is clear that without Croats, there would be no half response to the referendum and thus neither BiH's independence. However, political and conceptual differences stemmed from a future independent state between representatives of the two nations who supported BiH's independence of Muslims, Bosniaks and Croats. The Croats insisted on the following definition of the referendum issue, I quote: "Are you for the sovereign and independent BiH, the state union of the constituent and sovereign peoples of Croatia, Muslim and Serbian in their national cantons, so-called. The Lithuanian question?" Despite those votes by Muslim Bosniak MPs, I quote: "Are you a sovereign and independent BiH state of equal citizens, peoples of BiH, Muslims, Serbs, Croats and members of other peoples living in it?" Although Croatian political representatives were not satisfied with the content of a referendum issue that did not explicitly define the principle of territorial federalism that was then supported by representatives of the International Community, I remind you as a prerequisite for BiH's independence. Croatian political representatives, however, have called on Croats to support BiH's independence, political and conceptual differences that before the referendum times burdened relations between Bosniak and Croatian representatives in a similar form are visible today in the Federation of BiH where Bosniaks represent unitarian politics. The elements of such a unitary policy are still an integral part of the political agenda of certain Bosniak so-called Bosniaks. citizens' parties and national and the reproduction of the unitarian narrative is being constricted by the civil state's syntax, the electoral principle of one man, one vote, and all with the goal of political domination of a more numerous people today of the Federation of BiH, and tomorrow perhaps in the whole of BiH. Croatians, meanwhile, are struggling to preserve and implement the principle of association and federalism as the only principles that have the capacity to regulate social and political relations in multinational states such as BiH. Dayton BiH's General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH or the Dayton Peace Agreement was initialled in Dayton at the end of the 21st November '95 peace conference. The year was officially signed in Paris on December 14th. The Dayton Agreement has established BiH as an asymmetric confederation of two entities. Republika Srpska's entity, a highly centralized, unitary structure with an absolute Serbian ethnic majority and domination. And another entity, the Federation of BiH, is a decentralised federal community that makes up 10 cantons of which 5 has Bosniak, 3 Croatian majority and 2 are mixed. But at entity level, the Federation itself has a marked Bosniak majority of over 70% in the preamble to the Dayton Constitution as Annex 4. The Dayton Peace Accords. I quote: "The Bosnians, Croats and Serbs, together with others and BiH citizens, are being governed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina." So, according to the constitution, Croats are one of the three constitutive constituent nations in BiH. Although the Dayton Peace Accords resulted in the establishment of peace in BiH, it did not result in a functional state structure. The truth in the first 5.6 years after Dayton was recorded a certain constant progress in the functioning of institutions and an increase in trust between constituent peoples in the Federation and trust in institutions. After 2002, when the imposed Dayton audit took place, we witness stagnation and even a setback on these issues. Political instability, escalating mistrust between the three constituent peoples, mistrust in the institutions, and in the very sustainability of the state, political radicalisation and the threat of war, ideological and religious radicalisation, a stalemate on the Euro-Atlantic road and an increase in the influence of forces that are not in the interest of the Euro-Atlantic path of BiH, all this has led to many inside BiH, BiH seeing as a potential security risk to the immediate region and Europe. Why is that? Namely, even though Annex 4. The Dayton Peace Agreement of the Constitution of BiH based on the right principles, these principles are not consistently operational through the rest of the constitution. The very fact that it is for three constituent nations is envisaged by two entities in which the Croats are in two smaller numbers. The Dayton Constitution therefore envisioned regulatory constitutional arrangements in terms of.../incomprehensible/... parliament in the Federation of BiH and at the level of the state of BiH. The original Dayton constitution also guaranteed solid instruments for the protection of collective rights for Croats, and the electoral law allowed Croats to elect legitimate representatives in institutions designed for national representation, which are the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH and the BiH Presidency. In addition, in the government of the Federation of BiH, which was created in Washington as a Bosniak-Croatian entity, the parity of two constituent nations, Croats and Bosniaks, where the Croat was minister, Bosniak was deputy and vice-versa, and there was a certain veto institute even in the Federation government. Since I was in the government's three consecutive two-year term at the time, I can very crediblely testify that the government's functionality and mutual trust between the two nations were at an appropriate level. The process of deconstituting Croats began in 2000, by imposing amendments to the electoral law on the initiative of OSCE Mission Leader Robert Barry, which allowed numerous Bosniak-Muslim representatives in the counties to elect Croats to the Federation's House of Peoples, the result being so-called. The government of the 2001 Alliance for Change without Croatian electoral legitimacy. The process of decontritating Croats was continued by OHR High Representative Petric in 2002, who, with the support of part of the Peace Implementation Council representatives, misused the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court of 2000, so-called. A decision on the constitutionality of three peoples in the entire BiH territory, imposing more than 70 amendments on the entity constitutions that disabling constitutional and legal mechanisms for the institutional position of Croats in the Federation, and in the entity Republika Srpska Croats received nothing. After that, Croats lose the ability to elect legitimate folk representatives to the House of the Federation of BiH and indirectly to violate Croatian legislation at the level of the BiH parliament. This is evidenced by the fact that out of the 58 envoys of the Federation's House, the majority county can always elect at least 37 envoys, which is half the majority. Of which 14 out of the 17 Bosnian envoys, at least 3/4 of the Serb club, almost the entire club of others and whenever they want 1/3 of the Croatian club. Since 1/3 of each club is sufficient to propose a president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH, which ultimately confirms the House of Representatives in which Bosniaks again have an absolute majority, which is appointed by the Federation Government, which once again confirms the House of Representatives, it has happened and can still happen to elect therefore power in the Federation without the Croatian electoral legitimacy and this has happened twice as you know and it was time for the general marginalisation of Croats in BiH, both with regard to the availability of the results of its work, the availability of resources, decisions on investment cycles, etc. We witness the same after the net elections, although the Croatian parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly received over 90% of the Croatian votes, the Bosniak parties are trying by electoral engineering on the basis of an unconstitutional electoral law to reach the control package of 1/3 of the Croatian club and thus for the third time and for the third time form the executive power in the Federation without Croatian electoral legitimacy. Considering that in line with the disputed election law, BiH Bosniaks can choose both members of the BiH presidency elected by the Federation of BiH without a single Croatian election vote, which happened here for the third time by the election of Zeljko Komsic as Croatian member of the presidency in the net held elections, it becomes clear why the Bosniak policy does not want to implement an amendment to the election law based on the Constitutional Court's decision. As for Republika Srpska's entities, neither before nor after these interventions in the entity's constitution and election law, the Croats had never been able to elect legitimate political representatives to entity institutions. However, as long as the Croats were given the opportunity to elect legitimate representatives to the homes of the people and the presidency, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, it still does not resolve the position of the Croatian people in entity governments. Namely, the subsequent changes to the constitution in the government of Republika Srpska that makes up 17 members are Serbs and only 3 are Croats, regularly appointed by Serbian parties, and in the Federation of BiH of 17 members 9 are Bosniaks, and 5 Croats so that in the government of Republika Srpska all decisions can always be made by Serb and by the government of the Federation of Bosniak members. The BiH Constitutional Court is in its December decision, so-called ... So-called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Subject Ljubic clearly decided that the existing BiH Election Law is unconstitutional because it makes it impossible for the constituent peoples to choose legitimate political representatives in the institutions of the Constitution to represent the constituent peoples legitimately and has ordered them to make possible and not only for the people's home but I quote "at all administrative and political levels, which includes the BiH presidency primarily". Proposal for an Electoral Law, a consistent decision by the Constitutional Court, which was timely sent to the proceedings by the parties gathered around the Croatian National Assembly of BiH, which included the election of the Federation House of Peoples and elections for the BiH presidency, was accepted in the House of Peoples, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the truth with opposition from Bosniak delegates who called for the victory of the Bosniak's vital national interest. The Constitutional Court rejected the appeal, however, the Bosniak majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's parliamentary House rejected the proposal. My colleagues and colleagues, BiH, today and from independent experts and political entities, is being titled "an unfinished state, a divided state and a divided society, dystopia etc." The consequences are overall lagging behind even neighbours before which BiH was once fat. However, a key debate in BiH over the past few years has been tied to two decisions by two courts. The European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg is a well-known subject... and decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court known as the Ljubic case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Decision... requires that members of the group of others, specifically in the decision... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can run and be elected as a member of the BiH presidency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not disputed that it is necessary to allow every citizen to run for the Bureau article, disputed that the Bosniak side distorts the measure of decision and suggests that it be implemented in a way that one member of the Republika Srpska presidency and two from the Federation be elected. Such an interpretation of the decision... It ignores the high principle of the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, the principle of the consistency of the peoples' mutual equality, as well as the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the Constitutional Court's decision, so-called Subject Ljubic. In its argument, the Constitutional Court has entered into the essence of the representation of constituent peoples, the BiH government institutions and here lists only one quote in the December 2016 reasoning of the decision. I quote the Constitutional Court reminds that according to the general principle of democracy, the right to democratic decision is achieved by a legitimate political representation that must be based on the democratic choice of those it represents and whose interests it represents. In that sense, the link between those represented by their political representatives to all administrative-political levels is one that allows the legitimacy of the representatives of the community. So only the legitimacy of representation creates the basis for real participation and decision-making," the end of the quote. Fellow Members and colleagues, the BiH General Elections were held on 7 October despite the fact that the Election Law has not been amended in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has put out of force certain articles of the Election Law, necessary to complete indirect elections or elections for the Federation House of Peoples. That without the Federation's House, the presidents of the Federation of BiH, the government of the Federation, and the constitution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, those who have entered the election's adventure irresponsiblely without valid electoral law, are today trying to bypass by asking the Central Election Commission to assign mandates to the Federation House and therefore testify in a media and political chaos. However, I remind you, only the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has the power and obligation to implement Ljubic's verdict that the BiH constitutional court has expressly ordered in its decision. The original BiH law is a state law and only a state-level legislator, which is the BiH Parliament, has the power to amend and supplement state laws. Anything else, including an unconstitutional attempt by the Central Election Commission to implement the elections, would be a blow to the constitutional and legal order of violation of the BiH Constitution and thus the Dayton Agreement. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that on behalf of all of you, I can claim that the Croatian Parliament confirms the support of sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of BiH as a country of 3 equal constituent peoples and the commitment to develop good neighbourly relations with BiH by supporting efforts to affirm BiH's path towards the EU. strengthening cooperation in the European spirit. There is a strong consensus in BiH on EU membership, both among political representatives of the three nations and among the citizens themselves. However, the declarative commitment to EU membership is not all followed by a concrete push. The very fact that BiH no longer has implemented decisions by the BiH Constitutional Court as well as by the European Court of Human Rights of Strasbourg, speaks of a deficit in the division of the rule of law to the basic condition for membership in the EU, yet most favoured by Croatian political representatives and, with strong defence of RS political representatives including Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, BiH submitted its application for candidate status last year and answered the question through the coordination mechanism. The Republic of Croatia strongly supports BiH's commitment to Euro-Atlantic integration and provides political support and technical assistance through various ways, such as the entry of a translation of the EU acquis, the transfer of the experiences of the accession process and this is informed in an agreement on a European partnership signed during a joint session of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Council of Ministers in July in Sarajevo last year. My colleagues and colleagues, by violating the Constitution and by not implementing the Constitutional Court's decision to amend the election law after these elections, BiH has been introduced into an institutional and constitutional crisis with an uncertain outcome. ... and the consistency and political subjectivity of the Croatian people in BiH and the Republic of Croatia is required to act on the basis of Article 10. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution. The Republic of Croatia, as a signator of Dayton and a member of the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, is obliged to react to the violation of Dayton by the board of directors of the Peace Implementation Council and the UN Security Council, based on whose mandate is decided by the Office of the High Representative in BiH. We welcome the efforts of the government's representatives to the European Council, and bilaterally, as well as the reactions of all Croatian euros after the elections in BiH. The debate in Parliament and the adoption of this Declaration should be an additional commitment and support. At this stage, it is necessary in BiH to make it possible, through amendments to the Electoral Law, to elect legitimate representatives of three constituent peoples and to stabilise political relations. In the second phase, where it is necessary to approach, as a pledge for the sustainability and functionality of BiH itself, the roots of the Constitution that BiH will establish on the principles of federalism with the symmetric position of three constituent peoples, both in terms of administrative territorial organisation and in terms of institutional rights. Based on the strategy and the Law in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, in particular Article. 53rd and 54th. The Republic of Croatia should support the development of family economies and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship for the sustainable remnant of Croats in its hearths because the stay of Croats in BiH as a political entity is a strategic, state interest and long-term supply of the territorial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The very fact that the Republic of BiH has identified as a programme state in its foreign political strategy is a testimony that the Republic of BiH, treats as its strategic partner interested in stability, prosperity and European pathway BiH, which is also strongly highlighted in this Declaration and precisely because of this, the Republic of BiH is obliged to react to the current worrying and anti-constitutional processes in BiH and to help BiH on its Euro-Atlantic path, and respected in the consistent implementation of the Dayton principle and the Supreme Principle of the Constitution of BiH, the principles of consistency, the mutual equality of the constituent peoples without standardisation of the rights of the constituent peoples of the Constitution and the Electoral Law. BiH not only has a European future, but also the future of the BiH state itself is questionable. I expect, therefore, with today's debate, to shed light on this issue with several aspects, including those which I have not elaborated enough in my opening statement. I expect, therefore, with the possible amendments before the vote, we make this Declaration even more coherent with the aim of giving the institutions of the Republic of Croatia a strong instrument and support and representation in strategic state and national interests regarding the achievement of the constitutional rights of the Croats in BiH, the European pathway and the prosperity of friendly and neighbouring BiH, our programme state. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, the unity we had in the Homeland War, the unity we showed in this House about the path to the EU and NATO integration. He's asking us not to approach this topic on a party basis, but on a national basis. My colleagues and colleagues, to whom this Declaration is addressed, are often asked a question in the preparation of this document. It is primarily directed to the Croats in BiH to give them the basic hope and promise that the Republic of Croatia is behind them, that 8 million Croats stand behind them in the Republic of Croatia and outside the Republic of Croatia representing this HS. It is addressed to all the Croatian political public and to the one interested and uninterested to interest them in this strategic, state and national issue. It is also addressed to political elites from the international community, meaning that allies in the EU and NATO who support, therefore, the European path of BiH and its stability, but also to actors from the international community who are supporting the right to stronger ones, are trying to resolve issues, not on the principles of justice, and it is ultimately directed to political elites in BiH, particularly parts of these political elites, the other two people, who have actually worked so far, are still working to deconstitute the Croatian people. Here, I expect such a debate and expect one consensus in achieving this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121435	Thank you. We have all 18 replicas together. We're starting with our first, esteemed colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121436	Dear fellow Ljubic, here's one well-prepared speech for half an hour, but I'm afraid we'll be bringing in some new Declaration soon, then some third Declaration, then the 5th Declaration. I didn't see a solution in the Declaration. I don't really see what's being offered and I'm afraid that no one through this debate that will probably last all day, is going to offer that solution, but I'm still going to say it here. I will say because I really think that the Croatian people should be sovereign in their home country of BiH, as they should be sovereign in their homeland of the Republic of Croatia and because it is too loud, disproved and deceived by the Bosniak majority in the Federation of BiH several times and because it is before extinction. The only solution no one will dare say here, but I'll say it right from the start is the third entity. Whoever looks like science fiction is the only salvation for the Croatian people, and besides that, there is no other salvation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121437	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121438	My colleague Zekanovic, therefore, I know that, uh, you support the Croatian people in BiH and I know that you will support this Declaration. So, because in its political content, they say, it's actually adapted to the character of this document. On the other hand, it's very easy to say, therefore, the bomb words, but behind what we say, uh, follows responsibility and enforcement. The aim of this Declaration is precisely to enable, here today we are talking about HS, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, that legitimate and legal law, therefore, representing the principle of Dayton, is the equality of the people of BiH to implement, therefore, and agree where possible to influence it. So, we do not have the opportunity in BiH with our own hands to make sure constitutional reforms are rooted, but we also hope and we are confident that we will come up with a joint push with the help of the Republic of Croatia with the help of the Republic of Croatia with a solution that will enable the equality of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121439	Thank you, fellow Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121440	So it is not true that you are proposing this harmful declaration regardless of the results of the last elections in BiH. You claim these rules are to the detriment of the Croatian people, but according to these same rules, Dragan Covic has been elected to the post before, so why didn't you propose a declaration? Then why didn't you object? It bothers you that Zeljko Komsic, Croatia, is elected, but not a member of the HDZ, it reminds me of the situation in '97, when Franjo Tudjman refused to recognise the results of the elections in Zagreb. He refused four legally elected mayors. It's democracy by the HDZ. If the results of the HDZ elections do not match, then the election rules are not valid, then we will not recognise the results, then we are not interested in the electoral will of our beloved Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121441	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121442	So, first of all, it's not true that we didn't react. So, when the first Alliance government was formed without Croatian legitimacy, we organized a Croatian National Assembly and a referendum of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are to-God... So when the Government of the Platform was elected and Željko Komsic, for the second time, so we reactivated the Croatian National Assembly and I, after that, made a constitutional complaint, and called for the electoral law that allows it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Constitutional Court ruled, so it accepted the argument, therefore, from my constitutional suit and ordered that the electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina be amended in a way that allows for the selection of legitimate political representatives of all three constituent peoples, I quote: "...at all administrative political levels." And that is the House of Peoples, that is, the Presidency, because these are the institutions envisaged by the Constitution. Zeljko Komsic is not a personal question, Zeljko Komsic is a constitutional issue for us. counterpart Covic received 25% more votes by new elections than in the previous elections. Just by chance, because Komsic couldn't run at the time, because someone suitable for choice, he was then elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121443	Thank you. Thank you. Please, let's just stick to the weather. Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121444	Here, I'd like to thank my colleague. Today we heard about many problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but you did not look back on the status of the Croatian people. It is true that the Croatian people have problems with the Bosniak or Serb people, but they also have problems with their legitimate elected representatives, such as Dragan Covic. When Dragan Covic was elected, that as much inventory as he used in his personal, professional wealth, if he had directed this inventivity towards enriching the democratic and democratic processes, then in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats would be wherever and where else they are now. Therefore, the position of Croats is not only a position and a problem compared to other constituent peoples and in the way it is resolved, but it is also evident that its legitimately elected representatives represent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121445	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121446	... So I was in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now here, this, and in the Croatian Parliament, as well as the President of the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly, who was reactivated precisely thanks to the co-operation of Mr Covic, which you mention me, and in which it was gathered, 12 or 13 of the Croatian political parties and in which more than 90% of the Croatian electoral legitimacy was gathered in these elections, and here today, representatives of even the blocks that went to the new elections, therefore, opposing or in competition, and we are all together today, in fact necessary to amend the electoral law, implement it in a way that Croats can choose a legitimate representative, and when we get this choice of their legitimate representatives without fear that others choose representatives in Dom... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The presidency, and then Croatians have conditions to say so, for that within Croatian political pluralism that we all want, so, but until then, we are forced to simply vote national. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121447	Thank you. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121448	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear fellow Ljubic, please answer one question. Do you think Mr Zeljko Komsic is legally elected member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency? And that I ask you to answer me only with yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121449	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121450	... Klisovic, your question wasn't in one word either, so neither will my answer be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the choice of Zeljko Komsic is currently a political fact, and with that fact, Bosnia and Herzegovina seems to have to live this 4 years. However, what we all agree on here, it is clear that this choice is not in line with... , is not in line with the legitimate representation of three constituent peoples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you'd... entered a deeper analysis of all this, including an analysis of this Constitutional Court decision, and also of certain other articles of the Dayton Constitution, and I don't have time to do this now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in this minute, then we might even conclude that it's not even consistent with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I would like to say here that today is a political fact, and we here today must make efforts to amend the electoral law that can never happen again, and that in the first row, the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina has chosen in a way that represents legitimate representatives of the people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121451	Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121452	Mr. Ljubic, you've managed to upset me, good for you. It's hard, uh, when you're talking about law enforcement, I'm really upset. The need for the care of the Croatian people in the Republic of Croatia is unquestionable, unquestionable, and nobody here is sure that I am two. Since you are part of the continuity, you and your great leader, and academic citizen of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Covic and this person are responsible for the situation in which the Croats are located in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that you need to recognise that responsibility and speak accordingly. You're talking about the equality of the people. I agree and it should be guaranteed anyway, but I am telling you about the fact that the Croatians themselves are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who share in those of your few, who are boastful and those of themselves who are humble people who hold you and such elite. So in order to take the first step, to improve the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you and your great leader resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121453	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121454	... Orepić, I appreciate that you advocate the equality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is important to me in your debate, the only thing that matters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the topic of this Declaration and the debate in this House is neither Ljubic nor Covic. So, we're passing We are transitory to say the category and by adopting the electoral law, based on the principles that we advocate, you will be able to get rid of us, if you want to get rid of us, because it will enable Croats within Croatian political pluralism. [[/Intruder: yes, yes.]] So here today is not a topic, so this one even what's past. The Republic of Croatia has also had good attempts in the past, however, the attempts did not bear fruit. Because we have a situation that the Croatian people, therefore, with their collective rights, are becoming less and less and less today, strategically national, if you want Mr. Orepic, who you live and are born in the south of Croatia and of the state interest and supply, long-term Croatian territorial sovereignty, survival of Croats in BIH, Čovic and Ljubic are not going to be alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121455	Thank you. Please don't throw away, colleague Babic Ante, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121456	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome the Honored Minister with co-workers and representatives of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, a respected colleague of Ljubic, you have actually proposed to the board, a correct political text, for which there should not be a lot of objections, and your whole debate has actually come down to this, constitutionally legal, institutionally and in fact equality of all 3 constituent peoples. The Federation's constitution speaks of federal units, you said so yourself, so the Constitution itself, and you're talking about federal units today at the BIH actually blastemia. Which is why, in fact, such ammunity towards federal units in the BIH, and in my view, BIH can only be regulated as a decentralised, legal and social state with federal units, with equal rights of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121457	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121458	So, counterpart Babić, the only way that the BIH can be prosperous, functional and stable is to build on the principles of federalism as recommended by the European Parliament's revolution. Because there are no more national states in Europe that are not a Federation, and there are many mononationals. However, those who are on the trail... policies in the BIH, which want policies of domination, in part of the BIH, of one entity, because in the whole of the BIH, they are actually opposed to the constitution of the BIH on the principles of federalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we in BIH, therefore, have a similar syndrome that we witnessed in the evening of the former state, so, that the majority people are actually trying to turn the state into their national state or at least its larger part. So that's what's not in the interest of the BIH, I was born there, I'm a patriot of that state, but I want to be a constitutional patriot, first of all, and I want all of them to be citizens of the BIH, to stand up for that state, because it's our interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121459	Thank you. My colleagues, Vranjš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121460	Thank you, Mr. President. Based on the Dayton Accords Constitution, it is our duty to take care of the people in the BIH on the basis of the Washington Agreement. I can now call the opposition or those who oppose this declaration and say that it was precisely those names and last names who contributed to reducing the lock of Croats in the BIH more or less. But what is crucial is that we all be unique and I can say here that all policies are once in the past have led to our turning our backs to the Croats in the BIH and that it is time to stop and really help our people, as a member of the EU, it is our duty to follow what is happening and to help our people in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121461	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121462	A colleague of Rosčić Vranjš, therefore, precisely the purpose of this declaration is to shed light on this strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And the goal is therefore, Croatia has had good so far, I would say moves and attempts, and not now various governments, and that is why, in the light of this declaration, I even threw out some of the things that I had previously had in it which were critical of certain, therefore, earlier precisely wanting in this House to create a consensus on this issue. So this declaration, when we adopt it, and I think that we will adopt it with one broad consensus, needs to be a guideline and a commitment to all governments, not to separate it from one, the other, the political option, but to be a commitment in such a way that it is a declaration of the Homeland War that was made in this Croatian Parliament, in such a way as the decision to terminate arbitration, for example. around the Savadria waves, etc. etc. This is the purpose of this declaration, the purpose of the declaration is to create a consensus in this assembly this is a strategic issue for the Croatian state. To the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121463	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121464	Thank you, Mr. President. Kola Ljubic, advocates of the policy of centralism in the BIH, will certainly criticise not only this declaration, but also any effort that seems to guarantee the right of every nation in the BIH so that it can choose its legitimate representatives, any effort to establish how and separatism, but also centralism, those who are holding back the development of the BIH. As established by that resolution of the European Parliament, first in 2014 and then those who followed. Please correct me if I am wrong, but precisely the exponents of this centralism policy have rejected and such a resolution of the European Parliament. And I think that in this context we must bear in mind today, that there will be those who will speak whether or not to say anything in this Croatian Assembly. And they also criticised whether or not to say something in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121466	I would also like to thank you personally and your colleagues, Piculi and others and Mr Plenkovic, who have therefore contributed to this resolution of the European Parliament. The second thing, I was a member of parliament at the time, and I proposed an initiative for the BiH parliament to get acquainted with the resolution, was rejected precisely by those unitarians and centralists discussed by the resolution. On the other hand, this declaration should be supported by those political... The Bosniaks he's got, and there's a lot more of them than they're picking up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I don't do them any harm, I'll only mention a few... Dean of Political Science in Sarajevo,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which created the SDA, etc. etc. who all say is not fair is not moral for Bosniaks to choose a representative for the Croats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, this declaration should also encourage these Bosniaks, because we can only end up agreeing with them the solutions of the BIH, and... Then I'd be with the Serbs, so here, and that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121467	Thank you. Comrade Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121468	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ljubic, I have listened to the replicas of your presentation and I think they, especially on the opposition side, have led the debate in the wrong direction. So that's where they turned the story in terms of whether Dragan Covic is like this or not. I don't think that's the point of the whole story at all. The whole point of the story is that he was elected legitimately by Croats with over 80% of the Croatian vote in the BiH. And he's their legitimate representative, regardless of what kind of story he is or what he is. And that's what needs to be pointed out. On the other hand, I wonder, what if in Croatia the Croats wanted to choose, say, minority representatives in this House? Then what would be the reaction? Noting that, of course, Croats in BiH are not a minority, but they are a constituent people. So that should be emphasized, the right of the Croats to choose their legitimate representatives, their own free will, whoever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121469	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121470	So, I agree with fellow Sokol, I said this a little while ago, so the election of Mr. Komsic as a member of the presidency is not Mr. Komsic's personal question. You'd find someone else, you'd find yourself, for example. Edin Fejzic of Gorazd, who has declared himself in Croatia, etc. If most people want to choose him, they could choose him or some Marko Markovic. It is not a personal question of Dragan Covic, therefore, because it is trying to personalize things, therefore, so that the concept, therefore, of the Constitution itself and the agreement, would be disabling. So, uh, anyone who was an opponent now, the choice would be the same. So I want to say, therefore, this is a conceptual question, a constitutional question, and we should in this way recognize it, and in that way, the Republic of Croatia should be determined, and persons, therefore, are actually ephemeral here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121471	Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121472	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ljubic, can you please tell me what is the interest of the Croatian people in BiH to co-ordinate with Milorad Dodig, a man who denies the murder of 7,000 Bosniaks in Srebrenica and who thinks that Ratko Mladic is a great hero and even his son wants to set up as president of Republika Srpska, when it is known that Ratko Mladic destroyed Vrlika, Kijevo, destroyed Zadar, Sibenik, leveled with the land of Skabrnj, so he was essentially doing crimes that should be prosecuted as soon as possible in international court or even better in Croatian and you now such a man, so you support as a solution for BiH. So it's simply completely incomprehensible for me that Croats in BiH are working with war criminals who have committed crimes in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121473	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121474	A colleague of Bunjac, therefore, is precisely the success of BiH only through the agreement of legitimate representatives of the 3 constituent nations. Mr. Dodig... They represent the majority legitimacy of the Serbian people and, therefore, anyone who wants to stabilise BiH needs to talk to those who bear legitimacy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legitimacy of Bosniaks carries the SDA the highest, SDP slightly less, etc., etc. and we need to talk to them to agree on BiH. We have a dilemma, right on your discussion, we have two strong political options in Republika Srpska, one proposed by Mr. Dodig, who was during the bay the way critical of Radovan Karadzic, his opponent. We have another policy that has committed genocide in Srebrenica, whether we should co-ordinate with them or with Dodig who was then against that policy, but it is irrelevant, therefore, it is not a question of the party with which we will co-ordinate, that is, the question, so whoever represents the legitimacy of one, the other or the third constitutive people, so we want to go represented by these legitimate representatives, so yes. whether our representative be Bozo Ljubic or Drvosejdić, that's our thing. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121475	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121476	Mr. Ljubic, I really want any Croatian people to really knock in BiH. I can see today where many in the opposition are using their golden seconds to say that Komsic is okay, that there are many things in this House today about many politicians on both sides and on the other hand, and not everything would be nice, but I want this debate to pass today in a way that we offer concrete solutions to the Croats in BiH, and that is why I have to invite you. The first version of the Declaration you offered was concrete, which led to the fact that the version you gave us was naked, that's the problem, and what I'm going to tell you, if policies towards BiH are not concrete, then they are no different from politics. Stjepan Mesic towards BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121477	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121478	My colleague Petrov, we've known each other for a very long time, etc. and I know that you support, therefore, the equality of the Croatian people of BiH and I believe that you will also support this Declaration whatever it is. I want to tell you, therefore, the truth is that the first text was somewhat longer, but in political content this is nothing less, therefore, effective. Just to put it this way, the termological, certain things are ironed out, that in the first place, if you want the Republic of Croatia not to make it difficult, therefore, it is legitimate, legal right to represent Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and to be fair, therefore, it is my wish that this declaration be adopted here by the maximum consensus and authorities and opposition, and I hope that this will be so and thus we have also updated it, so we have updated it because of some of the events that took place in the meantime, the elections, after the first text was presented to the Parliament, have occurred, therefore, in practice BiH in the Menderek plan in NATO, etc. And all things were to be found in the second resolution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121479	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121480	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Ljubic, a year ago, students from Herceg Bosnia, that's the name of the association, came here with 20 requests that you signed. I don't see them in the Declaration. Which is why you didn't put it in the Declaration, which is why you avoided what you signed, among other things, then to the representatives of the students of the Herceg Bosnia Association. What is the reason why people who have bled together with the Croatian army, where I have been in the HVO for a year, are not thus valorized, how did you sign and another 20 measures in this Declaration are not thus valorised, who squeezed you? This is a serious question. Why isn't this Declaration the way you signed it then?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121481	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121482	Comrade Bull, I can say that I am absolutely behind the text of this Declaration. On the other hand, I appreciate your contribution of defence and Croats to BiH. At the time, I was a member of the HVO Sanity and I carry the rank of colonel from there and I was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Herzegovina as long as you will. So what I signed back then and now I'm behind it. The truth little title was later constructed but I did not have in my party because of this problem, as you can see I am still headed by the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. But it's this guy's document, this is another guy's document. So the terminology in this document and content should be adapted to character because this will be read and read and read in both Washington and Berlin and Brussels, both in Sarajevo and Belgrade. And therefore it should be such that it allows us to resolve the Croatian issue in BiH rather than say something and get out of the scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121483	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121484	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Ljubic, of course, the issue of the survival of Croats in BiH is a key issue, a fundamental issue of the entire Croatian people. But just now that you mention it, you're looking for a consensus, a consensus around the milk you lead. We are talking about the Declaration because we are now listening to probably all Croats from BiH and expect us to bring strong positions, to represent, not to do some censorships, compromises again, because our politicians, in fact, not our politicians, elected, legitimately elected by Croats in BiH, have often made compromises for their own breakthroughs, have introduced numerous corruption affairs. On the other hand, we have others who deny the right to self-determination again and then we have a Declaration that is not concrete enough again, which does not provide real measures, which will really stimulate some changes. Whether we're going to have such an approach, whether or not we're going to approve of such events there, I think we're expected to have real, concrete measures here. And that's why I'm saying, I'm going to fight for that original content of the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121485	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121486	My colleague Panenic, therefore, I would pray here when it is time for us to sit together and go through those declarations and just tell me what is not and what should be, so I will explain. So that's the first thing. The other thing is, in my opening statement, I'm saying again, so this debate needs to be created, so... The maximum consensus, you can submit amendments on Friday's vote, we'll remember, we'll organise a new session of the board if we need to read about these amendments and come up with a consensus solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I talked to your club, I talked to some other clubs, I submitted it to everyone who wanted to talk to them in writing, whoever wanted to talk to them, and I explained it. So, I expect... Amendments and all that are in line with the character of the document that we adopt and everything that is to be said productively and for those who will wear this process, remember that this process should be carried by the Government, the President, the institution of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian diplomacy, so we should assign such a document so that they do not make this work difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121487	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121488	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubic, the fact that unfortunately today we have to bring this Declaration is also a confirmation of the failed policy that has been being conducted towards our people in BiH, whose representative you are. So you said earlier that Mr. Covic and you were passing, but here you are from '95. You'll never make it through today. So it's a constant that works only now has a big reconciliation since 2006. The fact that we've been in this situation certainly not, as I would say, doesn't justify that in recent years it's been a lot of failures and the fact that it's not talking here about the spirit of Dayton, it's talking about what's been signed there, meaning '95. Go on. And yet another question of mine for you, I wonder how the Bosniaks did not find a Croatian representative in the previous elections, is Zeljko Komsic the only one in BiH that could be chosen by the Bosniaks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121489	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121490	My colleague Maras, first of all, okay, we're not BiH's unmistakable, there have been errors in BiH, there have been mistakes here, and when the deconstitution process took place in 2001,... Amendment to the Election Law, Petrice's amendments to the Constitution of the entity 70 amendments in 2002, from the Republic of Croatia, no one reacted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't want to call in my opening statement who he was then, look... who was then on Pantovchak and therefore also in the Ban Courts, but that was the time when it was due to react to the Security Council and the Board of Directors of the Peace Implementation Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we've been here since '95. year, so here's the people choosing us, I mean, I believe and I'm sure if we come to an election law change when we're going to allow inside Croatian political pluralism that these young people upstairs who are politically educated and that much more possibly than I am because I'm orthopedic and they're polythologists that they're going to take our seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121491	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121492	Thank you very much. My colleague Ljubic, unfortunately this debate... The assembly will turn today into a deal with the HDZ of BiH and with Mr. Covic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we had an opportunity to discuss the specificity of this Declaration several days ago and when we discussed the budget. The same ones who are criticizing the Declaration have asked to remove funds from... for a hospital in Mostar and a campus in Mostar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the two most capital projects to say so about the survival of Croats in BiH. And there wouldn't be a branch office today, and there wouldn't be a university in central Bosnia, or in Orash, if it hadn't been for that. And those are the facts. Comrade Maras, the elemental decency that is brought from home is that you don't get into another's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121493	Comrade Shucker, please, Comrade Shucker, I will warn the representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121494	Thank you very much. So these are facts that can be seen from the amendments submitted. We have a number of opportunities over the year through certain legal regulations to discuss helping Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121495	Thank you. I ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, not to throw us out of the bench, we have the opportunity to speak and hold this debate at one good level as it has been so far. Here's my colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121496	A fellow Shuker, therefore as founder of the University of Medicine in Mostar, personally and as a result also the clinical hospital in Mostar, I can express my gratitude to everyone in the Republic of Croatia and to all the governments who helped. Well, here we have you, you've personally been Minister of Finance, but you're also the Government of the SDP. I was here and when Racan's government was talking to Budish, talking to Mimica, I was here, Mr Milanovic and his ministers, so that we didn't have the continuity of that help, so today we wouldn't have one of the best universities in BiH, I guarantee maybe the best medical school, not even a clinical hospital. And the goal is to continue this debate. And right in the Declaration, I say continue to help. Thank you very much, and of course I thank everyone who helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121497	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121498	I thank Mr. President, my colleague Ljubic, the HDZ Representatives' Club decided long before the general elections were held in BiH to propose and then to adopt such a declaration. I would like to say that in order to send a clear message that we are neither bringing this declaration nor observing through the optics of the election of Zeljko Komsic or not the election of Dragan Covic. We want to bring this declaration primarily to fulfil our constitutional obligation, so if you want the Croatian Parliament to be a guarantee in protecting the national interests of the Croatian people in BiH. Therefore, I am saddened to say that one part of the opposition through this declaration cannot be raised above its partual and party interests, so I invite them to join by the end of the day to discuss this declaration in a way that contributes to its text, because it may be more important than the text of the declaration to send a message that the Croatian Parliament is unique about all these provisions [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which we listed in this declaration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121499	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121500	Comrade Bačić, as club president, of course, I must thank the parliamentary majority for agreeing that this document should come on the agenda today. On the other hand, I guess the colleagues on the left and right have noticed that for these three years, both me and my colleague Raguž, etc. We're sort of removing ourselves from those topics that are worldly, ideological, etc. Here they share Croatian society precisely by wanting this to preserve our position here for what we are chosen for, it is representing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I'd be very unhappy if this matter were to be addressed, to put it this way, more party games, to point out some interparty points, and that's why I asked in my opening statement that we're going that way, and I believe that we're going to get there eventually. I mean, OK, quite legitimately, people make their different views, their different assessments with which I can agree with some, with some not agreeing, but the goal is that, at the end of the day, what the English say is that we come to a solution that will be the policy position in Croatia, not only the authorities but also the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121501	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121502	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so you have well defined everything that has been played by the election law and how the BiH Constitutional Court has made clear the specifics by which the elections must be held. This was not done by the current authorities and of course the Croatian peoples are wronged by who knows which times in BiH. The damage that has been done is irrevocable. It has far-reaching consequences in BiH's functioning as a state, in fact, its stability is thus both disrupted and normal that the Croatian state must take steps to prevent this from being a signator of both the Washington and the Dayton Agreement has an obligation to worry and worry about peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121503	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121504	I bow to my colleague Djakic and I have said this in my opening statement a little longer, it may not have been possible to catch everything, and so I said, even when we realize the Constitutional Court's decision by virtue of the electoral law, we still haven't solved the Croatian issue in BiH because we haven't solved the Croatian position in entity governments. Therefore, it is a much wider question which requires one, one of this broad support and, unfortunately, we Croats are down in one marginal position, we are not able to politically or medialy oppose this one unitarian and also the separatist narrative that is present in BiH, but therefore there is the Republic and this declaration to be one institutional response and agreement in the Croatian Parliament, such as the institutional approach, so the strategy and the law.../incomprehensible/... the foundation of the central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I welcome Mr. Zvonko Milas, because so Croatia has helped. However, this is now done in a system way, project funding we want this declaration to contribute one systematic approach to this issue. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121505	Let's go to the last replica, Comrade Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121506	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this replica is the only business opportunity to express my expectation of government representatives before addressing the government, because the government is a co-creator of foreign policy. Mr. Ljubic, so you don't have to answer the government, but good. So, Madam Minister, please let us in. Okay, okay, then my colleague, Ljubic, if I were a representative in the address, I'd say the following. [[Employee: Comrade Bauk, you now know that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, but will be spoken by a representative of the Government and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.]] First, explain how the declaration will help the government and presidents as co-creators of foreign policy and how it will improve the position of Croats in BiH. Secondly, to make clear arguments which will challenge the claim that this is a matter of interference in the internal affairs of another country and a third country to which, in your opinion, it is intended for this or a changed text. Who are we talking to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121507	Comrade Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121508	My colleague Bauk, no matter what I am not asked to answer, I have the right to respond, and the minister will speak later, so she will say what she has to say, etc. I first want to say that this document needs to be an instrument to the government, not aggravation to the government and, in fact, it's safe, so we have to be honest, this puts the greatest burden on the back of the government. However, if the government is willing to accept the burden, then the government knows how and how it will carry it and how it will present it. I argue that there is not a single statement in this declaration that would be contrary to the documents already adopted by the Constitution of BiH, whether the Constitutional Court's decision, whether in EU documents, the EU resolution, if you will and the US Congress that I will quote later when I get the opportunity to speak for 5 minutes. So this one, I think, is that anyone who wants to read a letter-to-letter set, I am able to respond to any claim and kill therefore any stigma of potential interference in BiH's internal affairs. This is Croatia's declaration, actually under quotes it interferes only your obligations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121509	I will now ask the respected Maria Pejcinović Buric, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to state the government's position, 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121510	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome our guests from BiH. The declaration on which we are discussing the position of the Croatian people in BiH today is an important document confirming the commitment of meeting the constitutional and international obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards members of the Croatian people in BiH and BiH. The obligation of special concern for the Croatian people in BiH stems from a series of national acts and international contracts and resolutions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that I quote "Parts of the Croatian people in other countries guarantees special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia", completed the quote and the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Strategy on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Strategy for the Development of Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the Washington and Dayton Agreement, which is a signator of in particular Article 1. The Dayton Agreement, which states that the parties will fully respect international sovereign equality and Article 5, in which the parties welcome and approve and reach agreements on the BiH Constitution set out in Annex 4, and undertake to quote "fully respect and advocate the fulfilment of its provisions", concluded the quote. Following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU and NATO membership, the concern has also been given an additional dimension. I am particularly key in keeping several aspects strong and important for the position of the Croatian people in BiH. First, bilateral relations. With BiH as one of our most important neighbouring countries, we have extremely dynamic and comprehensive relations. The political framework of these relations is perfectly clear, it is full support for the sovereignty and integrity and territorial integrity of BiH as a state composed of two entities and three constituent peoples and other citizens. Taking into account the thousands of years of internationally connected history, the common limit of over 1,000 km which is now the EU's external border, intensive economic co-operation, an ever-increasing infrastructure connection and the fact that the Croatian people in BiH are one of the three constituent peoples, this is quite understandable and logical. The importance of caring for these relations and the attention this Government pays to, testifying and holding a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH in early July 2017, which discussed more than 50 points of the agenda and set out the way for further development and progress of bilateral relations. Secondly, we keep BiH's European path strategically important for the future of the Croatian people in BiH but also for the overall relations of all states. Croatia has always strongly supported and will support BiH's European path. At the Croatian initiative, the EU decided in 2014 on a new approach to relations with BiH. It was an important milestone that paved the way for BiH's progress towards the EU. Without the Croatian engagement, BiH would certainly not be in a situation today if it could now expect it to get a positive opinion from the commission next year on its membership bid. Next year is an important year in which BiH could start a faster path towards EU membership. In recent months, Croatia's initiative in the EU's highest bodies in the European Council, with the strong engagement of Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Foreign Affairs Council, in the European Parliament, has led discussions on the situation in BiH, with emphasis on the importance of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision on the equality of Croats with other two constituent peoples in BiH and the removal of obstacles that stand in the way of full commitment to BiH's European integration. Here, too, would highlight our bilateral contribution to BiH's European transformation, which was institutionalised by the signing of a European partnership agreement between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on 7 July 2017 in Sarajevo that came into force this summer. This further determines the willingness of expertise as an experience from our own EU accession, we offer BiH to speed up its path towards the EU. Thirdly, within the framework of the NAO, an eight-year debate was concluded and BiH was offered the activation of the reform action plan and there was a Croatian contribution among the strongest. Furthermore, Croatia pays great attention to the issue of equality and protection of the interests of the Croatian people in BiH during discussions and other international forums, for example, I will mention the debate in the UN Security Council on six-month reports by the High Representative in BiH. Fourth, on the support the government gives to the Croats in BiH. The government more than any previous one focused on improving the situation and improving the lives of the Croatian people in BiH. In the last 2 years, a significant shift has been made in the form of more concrete and continuous support to both strategic institutions and other significant programmes and assistance projects for Croatians in BIH. From 2016 to today, a total of €320 million has been provided in cash. If we could add to that what the Croatian State Department of Housing is doing, this figure would be significantly higher. The funds are allocated either through the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia or through several ministries and HZZO. The support is visible not only through the increase in financial resources, but also through engagement and direct co-operation, which aims to ensure conditions for quality sustainable staying and development of all areas of Croatian life in the BIH. For example, in order to encourage the remainder of young people, the number of scholarships awarded by the Croatian government has increased more than twice from 200 to 400 scholarships per year for those studying in the BIH and an additional 100 scholarships for students from the BIH studying in Croatia. In doing so, the amount of scholarships has been increased. The amount of funds for Croatian projects and programmes in BiH has increased from 20%. This amount today amounts to €24 million. Greater strategic projects of schools, hospitals, health homes, student homes for older and powerless, infrastructure projects have been supported, as well as projects that provide the opportunity to create new jobs. The commitment to obtaining financial support also had programmes and projects to be implemented in partnership with the local community in the BIH, making sure that the support was geographically deployed throughout the BIH area. A number of seminars and workshops on project management, mobility, competitiveness in the labour market, the possibility of withdrawing funds and pre-accession programmes have been held in order to transfer experience and knowledge from the field of European integration in the BIH, organised by Croatian institutions and experts, etc. etc. This should also include direct financial support from the state budget to the University Clinical Centre in Mostar, and support to the University of Mostar and HNK. In 2018, consulates were opened in Livno and Knights, and the office of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Sarajevo and Mostar, after 4 years of rest, the HRT reopened correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, and the Mostar Zagreb airline was launched. Through special funding for cultural, educational, scientific, health and other programmes and projects of interest for the Croatian people in the BIH, the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides important assistance and support to associations of Croatian institutions in the BIH and through them strengthens and robs the Croatian people in its effort to remain sustainable and supports and preserves the national identity of the Croatian people in the BIH. The Republic of Croatia will also seek to advocate the full application of the Dayton Peace Agreement by sticking to its text, as well as the spirit that puts the equality of the constituent peoples in the BIH, as well as all the citizens of the BIH first. The Republic of Croatia will continue to strengthen bilateral relations with the BiH, in all areas of common interest. As a potential candidate for EU membership, BIH is an increasingly common topic on the agenda of the EU institutions, and there will be even more if it progresses on that path. In these discussions, the Republic of Croatia will continue to strongly support the European path of the BIH, enjoying its specificities and pushing for the rights of solutions for the successful European future and equality of the Croatian people in the BIH. The BIH is still the subject of regular debates in the UN Security Council where Croatia will also continue to contribute to the debate taking into account the importance of the situation of the constituent peoples in the BiH. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to provide assistance to the Croatian people in the BIH, in accordance with its obligations of responsibilities and opportunities. The Republic of Croatia is vitally interested in the well-being of the Croatian people in the BIH, as well as in the improvement of our neighbouring country. Croatia has been and will be the biggest advocate of the European pathway of the BiH, and we will never tire of it. This is our pledge for the survival and survival of the Croatian people in BIH, which is a provision for a stable and prosperous BIH with which we want to build further relations of cooperation and friendship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121511	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Let's go with the replicas, first of all, the respected colleague Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121512	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, you spoke on behalf of the government, so please answer my next question. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia consider Mr. Željko Komsic a legally elected member of the Bureau of the Republic of Croatia? Please answer me yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121513	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. Vice-President of the Government of the United States. Buric Pejcinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121514	Thank you very much. You know exactly what the Constitution says. You know exactly what it says in the Dayton Agreement. So no one slows down the legality of the election, what slows down is the legitimacy of the representation of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121515	I thank you for your response to the Deputy Prime Minister. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121516	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister, the fact that you are here today, all of your team in the Croatian Parliament, as well as the overall commitment of the Croatian government to intensify relations with the whole of the BiH, and especially with the Croatian community there, speaks enough about everything this government has done for the BiH and Croatians, as well as the delegation of the Republic of Croatia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, especially our club in the European Parliament. I would especially like to stress from your debate the support of the institution of culture, the media and especially educational institutions, which is very much today in the context that Croats in the BIH are necessary to preserve their identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121517	I thank my esteemed colleague, Putica, for your response, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121518	Thank you very much for pointing out this part of my presentation, we think that in order to preserve the identity of Croats in BIH, this part that you have highlighted is one of the crucial and as the smallest constitutional people, Croats certainly need additional support just to preserve an identity that has been there for centuries, not to say more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121519	I thank the esteemed vice president for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121520	Dear Minister, in your presentation on behalf of the Government, you said the facts, you cited tools that Croatia has its Constitution, has obligations towards Croats in the BiH, and other countries where the Croats are, that the Croatian people are constructive, however, on paper, it is beautifully written, however, in reality there is none of it. You have listed certain measures of this government that have taken, each measure is good, however, reality is different. A year ago, there were students of Herceg Bosnia's initiative who gave 20 of their initiatives in the declaration. I expected you to talk about the future, but we can also talk about the past. The Croatian government's relationship was disastrous to the Croats in the BiH. Disrespecting our Constitution, and that is enough to say, that our generals in the HAG have not been visited until 2016 who have been sentenced to... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121521	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj, of the, dear minister, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121522	Thank you very much. I didn't realize until the end, which is the question, so the government is doing, what, that was the emphasis of my exposure and will continue to work within those who can. Therefore, it is very clear what the Croatian government is thinking, this government is thinking about the future of Croats in the BiH. And if it were perfect, we wouldn't need to bring in a document like this at all, or you shouldn't be discussing it. Therefore, in one agreement, Croats in the BIH need strong support from Croatia, as outlined in the Constitution and in other documents that I have cited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121523	I would like to thank the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121524	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs with State Secretary and Associates, we have witnessed this last 2 years and we must definitely commend and congratulate all efforts and the Government and the Ministry on the issue of Croats in the BIH and all diplomatic actions that have been taking place lately, but I am interested in your commentary, i.e. Cooperation with the ministry with the High Representative of the BIH and more specifically your comment on his recent statement, which is that you should make a catalogue of the positions in which Croats are located in the BIH, and then talk about the inequality of Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121525	I'd like to thank my colleague, the answer, the esteemed vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121526	I can only stay on that Croatia and the Ministry, therefore, the Croatian government stands on what I have said here. So we advocate full support and implementation of the Dayton Agreement according to letter and spirit. Everything else comes out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121527	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Mladen Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121528	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you said, that I also agree that we must have full support for the Croats in BIH, and here I am telling you the question that the Croats have just asked you here so that I can ask you, which is how the Croatian government will behave when visiting how they quote the illegal elected Zeljko Komsic, whether they will follow the procedure of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor who declared the unwanted in those places. So I would also like to know how the Croatian Government will apply to the arrival of Mr. Komsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121529	The presidency has a pandan in the president on our part, so the government has nothing to say about it, and it's hypothetical of what's going to happen in the future that I can't answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121530	I thank you for your response to the Deputy Prime Minister. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121531	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister of Staff and fellow Members. Croatia is often objecting to those who want to stop us from taking over the rights of the Croatian people in the BIH, that we do not have the right to interfere in other countries' problems. I remind you that no country in the world can measure in this respect with the Republic of Croatia, because the Republic of Croatia is a signator of all agreements of Washington, Dayton, so we also have international mechanisms and a foothold and a monitoring obligation if those obligations are met. Unfortunately, we are witnessing different stages of the Washington Agreement, which he predicted in one phase and confederation with Croatia. Depreciation of the monitoring of these obligations and of the agreement, in particular in 2000, here. Thus, it absolutely encourages today the fact that the current state political summit with its actions, and through the actions since this government's arrival, sends a clear message that Croatia will insist on protecting the rights of the Croatian people, so we activate all those agreements that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121532	Thank you, dear colleague Škorić. The reply of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121533	I can only confirm that, that this government is fully committed to the fact that the Croatian people in BiH enjoy everything that the Dayton Agreement predicted, I repeat in the letter but also in the spirit. And just part of the problem that has arisen is that the spirit of the Dayton Agreement in one part of the high representatives in the past has been interpreted in the wrong ways and we have come to this point at which the Croatian people are not de facto equal to the other two constituent nations. And on this trail Croatia is representing, performing and representing Croats in BiH and their equality in all forums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121534	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121535	You tell the ministers that you fully recognise and respect BiH's sovereignty, but this declaration requires changes to the constitution in the country. What would you do as foreign minister, for example? Dodik, Milorad Dodik or the National Assembly of Republika Srpska or Aleksandar Vukic or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or Borut Pahor or the Slovenian Assembly bring the Declaration in which they ask Croatia to change the Constitution? Would you consider it an attack on the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as I would have understood it or would you view it kindly?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121536	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. The Deputy Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121537	Mr. Stazic, the Republic of Croatia only requires compliance with the Dayton Agreement and constitutional decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121538	I thank you for your response to the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121539	Dear Minister, as well as my colleague Ljubic, I have not heard a solution from you, you have not had the courage to say it and unfortunately no one has yet spoken it except me and I will say it here for the second time. Third entity, why are you afraid to pronounce a third entity? Why are you offering some solutions that aren't really solutions? Why do we bring declarations if we really don't want to help the Croatian people? You yourself said nicely, said counterpart Ljubic, so the situation for the Croatian people in BiH is disastrous. And you are, or no one has offered anything concrete, we simply have established the situation, we have said it is bad and no one dares say the only solution for the Croatian people, and that is what I will say it is the fourth time today the third entity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121540	Thank you, reply, honourable Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121541	So I'd go back to the character of this document that we're talking about, and that allows me to maybe refer to something that was previously referred to exactly the content of the Declaration as it is before you today. So the Croatian Encyclopedia says the declaration is a statement of political, legal or other nature in the form of a solemn declaration containing fundamental principles or views on an important issue. So much for the content it needs to be in and how BiH will be regulated must be sovereignly decided by BiH's bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121542	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121543	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you said that this declaration obliges the government and you to make this commitment to a single BiH, to the Croats in BiH concrete. Because it says here that it is crucial for BiH's functioning that all its constituent peoples and citizens be equal, that Croats be equal, have full confidence and believe in its future. And one of the future is how you said the way to the EU. So citizens, especially Croatians, expect concrete answers that Croatia will put on the European path of BiH on the issue of an unfair, unfair electoral law, unsolved war crimes and environmental incidents that appear towards Croatia from BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121544	I thank my colleague Vlaović. The reply of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121545	Thank you very much. Our affections, I think, speak from every sentence I've mentioned. So our attachment is above all the rights of the constituent peoples, that is, in this case the equality of the constituent peoples and the equality of the Croatian people with everyone else. We are already witnessing this attachment, we are already working on it, we are already talking about it in all the forums where there is an opportunity. I was now 2, 3 days ago at the Foreign Affairs Council where we talked about the countries in the environment and that, and in that context I talked about three weeks ago or now almost a month ago on our initiative we asked only for a debate on BiH and we got such a debate, and we were also going to be in a position that we are representing right now. So we think that without the equality of the constituent peoples, without applying constitutional decisions concerning the equality of the constituent peoples, without applying constitutional decisions concerning this equality of BiH cannot go further on the European path.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121546	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121547	Thank you very much. I may say something that many here will not like but Željko Komsic is as legitimate as Andrej Plenkovic. Here, I hope you understand, it doesn't bother you here in the Croatian Parliament and you object with all your voice when it comes to the second case from another country. And one question for the minister, does she think that the Croatian article of the BiH presidency should be a priority, the interest of BiH or the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and another question, here has said how many times has she opened in the last two, three weeks, a month, on the Council of Ministers, I am interested in how many times she opened these topics before the elections in BiH, when HDZ candidate did not become a member of the presidency, how many times has our minister opened this topic that we are talking about today in the last two years before the BiH elections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121548	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Answer, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121549	Well, Mr. Maras, you can see that you don't know the technology of working in the institutions of the European Union. The Foreign Affairs Council is one body that decides, before the Council comes to debate, there has been a number of discussions before. In all, the Republic of Croatia is always behind the same debate at all levels, and that is what we talked about today. So, the equality of the Croatian people, changes to the electoral law that were not made in accordance with the constitutional judgment in the case of Ljubic, so this is a topic that everyone in the European Union is very well aware of, precisely because Croatia has constantly raised it at all levels, so before the elections, and for the last 2 years if you ask, but as far as I know, Croatia has always advocated the equality of the Croatian people with the other two constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121550	I thank the honourable Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. Would the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee perhaps want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague, Vice-President of the Assembly Mr. Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121551	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government. First of all, I welcome all Croatians and Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the one hand, I am pleased that we are finally in this House discussing problems, of course, the importance of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, I also feel saddened that we have not done so before and at a better level. That is why today, on today's current proposal for the Declaration that we have received, we will make amendments. They're concrete, they're strategically measurable, they're strategically oriented. They can be the beginning of one end, the end of a policy that does not protect rights, does not protect the fundamental freedoms of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. End of support for one, I could say undefined, harmful and no state relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think it's high time we finally took responsibility for what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia obliges us. The Constitution obliges us to worry about the Croats about their own citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we will not stand in the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of these people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who can we expect them to do so? Unfortunately, however, just some in the Republic of Croatia expect the role to be imposed, illegal, anti-constitutional, elected Mr Komsic, and perhaps some who support him from Croatia. These decades, it has often been heard that Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are seen as high, as they are placed in second-class citizens. Unfortunately, it was politics. This could also be heard in this House of the High, it could be heard by parliamentary representatives once before, unfortunately, by some parliamentary representatives who are also in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And I will warn you that the fact that the Republic of Croatia exists precisely because of those Croats who defended it during the Homeland War, and what is important and what the political actors of the Republic of Croatia should think about when they decide on this Declaration, is the following, without Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, you can expect a demographic breakdown and collapse of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to leaving the people of Croatia, partly negative trends, the demographic negative trends of the Republic of Croatia are that Croatia has exhausted the very population of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina for years and decades, not taking care of strategic, quality, long-term engagement. Take care of that when you want to bring in this Declaration, which is about which you have given us one warm note of support and nothing more. Yes, the principle you speak positively of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but unfortunately in principle. The principle of support can neither touch nor taste, nor live from principled support. Do not seek that the Declaration is generally accepted, I heard that argument today in the debate, and I heard that argument on the Assembly Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Your argument is this declaration, I would say naked and without concrete measures, the drive for all parliamentary representatives in this House to accept this Declaration. My view is that the declaration should be concrete, that it should allow those people in BiH to stay there, to live there, to start their families there and not in Munich, Stuttgart and somewhere else. You cannot use the declaration to serve as a team building for these parliamentary representatives here and I told you this on the parliamentary committee, it should be concrete, not a warm note of support, not something you have sent for 20 years. So I will finally tell you if the policies towards the Croats in BiH are not concrete, then they are no different from the policies of Stjepan Mesic and similar to those of the same Croats in BiH. Since this one, for some reasons, is still unclear to me, the corrected text of the declaration is not complete, clear, until the end defined as a representative club, we will propose amendments on whose adoption or refusal and exist, depend on our support for this declaration. Our first amendment concerns international action and foreign political necessity for the protection of Croats in BiH. if we are already asking that the Republic of Croatia report to the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, why should we include me in the declaration both the necessity and the time to start reporting, to require reactions and other, not less important international institutions such as members of the UN Human Rights Council, the EU Council, the European Council, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. Also, why not be specific and define that the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia such as The MVEP, the report should submit the bars twice a year to both the mentioned institutions and the Croatian Parliament so that no repeated avoidance of responsibility occurs because it is a fact that this is not done. without a clear definition of when, who and at what time, how many times he sends, no one does, this is not done even though it's written to work. The first step if we really want to support the Croats in BiH and protect them from the forced changes and violations of the Washington and Dayton Agreement, and all under the auspices of political Sarajevo and the work of the international community, which is characterized by the post of High Representative, is to know specifically the domestic and international public and those institutions with every violation and amendment of the BiH Constitution to the harm of the Croatian people. After that, we also create elements for the immediate removal of such harmful changes, which we have specifically proposed with the amendment. Our second amendment refers to a letter and an electronic vote. If the Norwegians, if the Swiss, if the Finnish, if the French have the option to vote in this way without driving or travelling by plane for 10 hours, what is the problem with the Croats from BiH? What is the problem with us all being equal to how we should be according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? I don't see why a letter and an electronic vote wouldn't make it common, it would be a democratic gain. The European Parliament expects an electronic vote at the end of Croatia. And they said that along with the European Council. The introduction of an electronic vote at all levels of government was something they had promised by ruling in their pre-election programme. If you forget, turn the page of your 60th program, it says that you will introduce an electronic vote at all levels of government. That's why I don't see any reason for you to refuse this amendment. The third amendment concerns legal assistance to members of the HVO and valorisation of the role of the HVO. And with the third amendment, we want to help the Croats in particular in BiH. I sincerely hope that we will reach a consensus on this, since I will repeat this, about the people who defended and created the Republic of Croatia and BiH, we know that the lawyers of the HVO have been discriminated against before the BiH judiciary by, as a rule, being tried by the second and stricter law than the members of the army. We also know how BiH's judicial authorities selectively treat HVO members through political qualifications. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to protect its citizens, provide them with basic legal support, fully valorise the role of the Croatian Republic of Croatia and BiH. That's exactly what our third amendment was proposed. Our fourth amendment also aims at righteousness. And the ongoing discrimination against Croatian students from BiH is injustice. That is why I believe it is important to include in the Declaration a request for the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia to stop discriminating Croatian students residing in BiH at the time of the scholarship. The current discrimination is seen in the fact that there are two separate lists where Croatian students from BiH are limited in achieving their scholarship rights. Scholarships should be awarded on a single ranking list for all students who are Croatian citizens, of course, if they meet the conditions set out in Article 6. Regulation on the condition and manner of exercise of the right to a state scholarship. Also, an additional score exists for scholarships... for the children of HV defenders but not for HVO defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see no reason why Croatian citizens in this case are younger in any way otherwise assessed, why they are not equal. In view of all the above and the amendments proposed for the end, I only want to ask you one thing if we will begin to behave stately, sovereignly, as it is appropriate for a European country or we will become part of the parliamentary statistics that left the Croatian people in the heart of Europe to suffer the dodging of fundamental human and political rights. Thank you fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121552	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lord Petrov. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121553	Dear Vice President, Minister, High House. These days we listen to advice from various sides that the Parliament should distance itself from every debate on BiH and its Croats' position as if it were Liechtenstein and not Croatia's homeland, as well as the Constitution defined among others by the Croatian State. It is not a question of why the Croatian Parliament and Croatian state policy are discussing and deciding on BiH but the real issue is in 1991 and 1993 as well as today 2018, which is also how it is discussed and decided whether it seems right and in the interest of the Croatian people and states or wrongly and contrary to the authentic interests of the Croatian state and Croats in BiH. That's what the national spear broke in the '90s and the 3rd January era after 2000, and that's what the spear is breaking today, it's going to break tomorrow. This is not about the constitutional obligation or the Dayton-Paris Agreement as the source of all problems signed by it as one of the three parties and the Republic of Croatia. It is not a matter of the Assembly having the right to discuss BiH, at least the same as the American Congress or the British House of Lords or any of the third-rate Brussels officials, diplomats and... and what they do every day without anyone ever objecting to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH has been the hub of the Croatian national issue for 150 years. For a century and a half, Croats have struggled and bled for survival and for their fundamental national rights. And every look at the map is telling us again. As long as there will be a Croatian state and as long as the Croats exist as a people, Croatia will be connected and highly dependent on the opportunities and fate of BiH and the achievement of authentic Croatian interests in its entire area. Neither representatives nor Brussels nor Tadic yesterday nor Vukic today, Karadzic yesterday and Brother Dodik today is a measure of Croatian interest. Croatian people's and state interests must neither determine the Serbian aspirations and needs of the Serbian state and the Transdrin quasi state nor the suicide anti-Croatian sectarianism and shortsightedness of any Bosniak policy. But these interests cannot define any narrow perspective that loses sight of a general Croatian picture and an even less corrupt policy that is such as the Pristina business crime lobby linked to Belgrade and Banja Luka with foreign centres of power and combinations of powers. This is not achieved by non-binding paper camel declarations, by the correct verbal competition that has already occurred and will last for hours in the assembly and by even less empty heroics that no one commits to anything. This is done by considering our past, our present, and our future. It is achieved by a prudent state policy which is currently in Zagreb, which is not being traced by the Croatian-Serbian coalition. The Croatian people and the state interest are crystal clear. Ensuring full policy, legal and state equality, the people's survival of the lives of Croats throughout BiH, who are working for themselves and for our sakes should be peaceful, stable and justly arranged to guarantee the survival of the Croatians as such, as well as an ally and friend of the Croatian state. This equality must be reflected in every part of people's life from electoral legislation to the real position of Croats in every branch of government at all levels. Let's be clear and concrete, let's start from the ground up. The source of Croatia's second-rate position in BiH is its constitutional and legal foundation born in Dayton and the Election Law is only a derivative of that fact. The two-centiary division of the country into an entity called Republika Srpska was created on the genocide and biological destruction of Croats and Bosniaks and the Federation, as such a systematic framework of Croatia's second-rate position which, in its essence, cannot be changed by cosmetic changes to electoral legislation and is therefore moving to see how much effort is being made to ignore and overlook the biological, war extermination of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Posavina entities through Prijedor to Banja Luka. What is realistic today and now and what is at this time the minimum minimum of Croatian political requirements behind which the Croatian state should stand is the root reform of electoral legislation at all levels and the removal of all shortcomings and restrictions that violate the principle of equality and legitimate Croatian political representation, and not just some of which are selectively and daily politically spoken about this camel alibi declaration. When it comes to elections for members of the Presidency, where for the third time by the choice of Željko Komsic, a titoistic mahalite street demagogue, a fog seller, a usurper and destroyer of BiH, the political will of the Croatian people has been trampled, the possibility of such electoral manipulation directly stems from the provision of the Dayton Constitution, which was then translated into the Election Law, with the short consent of Croatian politics, more specifically the sister HDZ, confirmed and consent to participate in all election processes since the date of the elections. Namely, by constitutional provision, that the Presidency as a state body, unlike Parliament, as a pair of excellences of national rather than civil representations, whatever they think of it, is a titoistic quasi-civil so-called. The anti-nationalist nationalists and anti-fascist fascists, consist of 3 members, one Serb, but exclusively elected in Republika Srpska and one Bosniak and Croat but exclusively elected and the Federation about nothing in this declaration from the right to legitimate national representation and constitutional discrimination and segregation, all Croats and Bosniaks in Republika Srpska and all Serbs in the Federation who do not have the right to be elected and elected members of the presidency from the people they belong to. What is crucial, this kind of silenced discrimination against Croats from the RS entity, Brother Milorad, confirmed, i.e. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the case of Pilav v BiH, but interesting Mr Ljubic, on neither that nor how to change it in the declaration, nor the letters. For example, if Mr Ljubic decided to move to Dervent, which is part of BiH and not Serbia tomorrow, he would be prohibited from running for Croatian presidency member. With regard to the Electoral Law, in particular the selection of members of the Bureau, discriminatory provisions can be fully removed not only in a partial manner as follows, and this is a measure of discussion which unfortunately in this Assembly competently, specifically and based on facts without cheap paroling, can speak less than has fingers in one or two hands. First, it is necessary to amend the discriminatory provision of the BiH Constitution, which should be read by the BiH presidency, made up of Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs without entity guidance. This provision should be translated into Election Law in one of two possible ways. The first is for members of the state presidency to be elected directly in one electoral unit made up of the entire state, not entities, and with a provision that would make it impossible for Croatian political will and political vermin to be trampled and La Komsic to elect Serb members of the presidency in the voter's list as declared Serbs, Bosniak as Bosniaks and Croatian as Croats. Another possible way to prevent any attempt by the future Komsic case is the election of members of the Bureau in the Parliamentary Assembly, with the approval of the House of Peoples, which was guaranteed by so-called 2006. the April package of constitutional changes behind which the US administration was then behind and which should have been the beginning of further constitutional upgrades. Instead of taking these constitutional changes responsibly, Croatian statesmen joined political adventure and party scheme. The constitutional changes are then agreed by the notoric so-called Croatian friend Milorad Dodik but also HDZ BiH and academics Covic and SDA, as well as quasi civil SDP, from which Komsic was later rejected but brought down in parliament by an unprincipled coalition between Haris Silajdzic and then Mr Ljubic's HDZ based on encouragement and with the blessing of Ivo Sanader. A non-principle coalition motivated by the position of WikiLeaks, published by the deputy US ambassador at the time, quote the unsatisfactory hunger for the authority of Haris Silajdzic and the revenge of God Ljubic as he writes to autocrat Dragan Covic, who beat Ljubic a year earlier in the HDZ Assembly, quoted most likely thanks to election manipulations. The irresponsible refusal of the April package in 2006 is a crucial moment with far-reaching catastrophic consequences that have begun the ongoing sundown of BiH and allow the political will of the Croatian people to be trampled and... A neighbour, which is the only reason and cause of this debate today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I remind you of this? Because the Croatian public and Croats in BiH must know that in the post-war collapse of their political position in the Federation, along with the Bosniak suicide political sectarianism and abuse of the electoral system, those Croatian political representatives who have been sitting in politics for as long as I know about themselves and who today want to share their political responsibility with others and those who have never and will never participate in such irresponsible and anti-Croatian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121554	I thank my esteemed colleague Hasanbegovic for this debate. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Hasanbegovic, I am very grateful that you have encouraged some things in this debate. Well, when you were talking about those questions you don't know much about. So here's what I've heard about quantum physics, and I've heard about some side-by-side theories of relativity and quantum physics, but I wouldn't dare talk to quantum physicists about that problem. So, let me tell you first, so you said here, this isn't about Dayton either... The deal, it's about Dayton. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the fact that after a persistent negotiation one such balance was reached in Dayton in the position of three constituent peoples who were then violated by the interventions of the High Representative in 2002 with great assistance, so Bosnian Bosniak unitarians. You haven't said a word about it, and that's exactly the problem, which is why the Constitutional Court has reached the verdict that it made on the basis of my appeal, and that's exactly the problem that we are talking about today as Croats. On the other side of the camel declaration. Therefore, the declaration is as similar to the document or character of the document. And it is not true that the Declaration and the reasoning do not treat Sejdic – Finci has not just been implemented until today because the Muslim Bosniak side has opposed the conduct of the verdict in such a way as to enable representatives of national minorities to run but at the same time to allow constitutive nations to be legitimately represented or at least in the same way as to be, have the legitimacy that the Croats today clearly do not have. At the end of the four years in BiH, Jews and Roma did not wage war, nor did national minorities already wage war between the three nations. A war that had parts and elements of aggression but also a significant part of the elements of civil war. Mr. Hasanbegovic's April package, you know nothing about him. The April package envisioned the abolition of the BiH People's House and bringing it down to something that is kind of a narrowly defined, vital national interest and therefore Ljubic was against it, Ljubic was against the abolition of another home at the state level, at the home of the people. The second reason for the establishment of the people's home, as predicted by the April package, was that after the general elections in BiH, all Croats, all Serbs, all Bosniaks and all others elected to the parliamentary, parliamentary homes have an ad hoc session to choose the home of the people. What's going on? The major Bosniak parties, the big Serbian parties, put their similar Croats on top of their lists and then meet after the general elections as an ad hoc club of Croats, Bosniaks and others and choose the home of the people. So we would have had it in every election cycle, and that home of the people was then meant to elect a president of the state. So we would never have any more legitimacy. And you know what's going on now? It is now about cantonal congregations where Croats have not passed in cantonal congregations, for example ... The canton to drive Bosniaks who entered parliament to resign and to come to their seats, to say similar Croats so that there would then be a control package of one-third in the home of the people of the Federation and therefore to the Croats to choose both the Federation government and the Federation president, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, the way you discussed the constitutional solutions for BiH is how Croatia and the Croatian Parliament should not work. We know Croatian legitimate representatives in BiH in the Croatian National Assembly,... a solution that would also allow the candidate of any citizen of the BIH but also the possibility for each nation to choose its legitimate representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121556	Thank you, dear colleague Bozi Ljubic, we have several replicas, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121557	Dear Mr. Ljubic, obviously you didn't listen to me very well, I didn't mention the verdict by Sidic Finzi at all, but I mentioned the verdict in the case of Pilav v. BIH. I would ask you if you could come out, explain what's the point of the Pilav case why this verdict of the Court of Human Rights has not been carried out and why you don't even mention it in this declaration. Second, if the April package was a violation of the rights of the Croatian people, why did the academic Covic agree on the April package, mean that he was willing to trample on Croatian rights and why you subsequently reunited with academics Covic in the mother's mother's home party, that same person was running as a member of the Croatian People's Presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121558	I thank my colleague Hasanbegovic, the answer, my colleague Ljubic, come in. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, can you turn off the microphone, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121559	So the time of one minute doesn't allow me to blow up the Pilav case, but it's familiar to me, of course. As for the tram package, therefore, the support of the majority of Croatian MPs 5 of the 6 legitimately elected who supported opposition to such a April package gave all the cultural and all scientific institutions of the Croats to the BIH, including the Bishop's Conference. If you want to be here, that was exactly the reason why Mr. Dragan Covic and I split up politically at that point. And then most of the MPs... The BiH and the Federation parliament have sided with what I have represented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Later, of course,... when you faced the situation that the majority Bosniak, unitary, centralist forces are trying therefore to form a rule in the BiH without Croats, so of course we sat down and we agreed and we still have this agreement going on and here today are the representatives, my successors in the party that I founded and representatives of the HDZ BIH,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121560	Thank you, dear colleague Ljubic. We're on our way. Replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121561	Dear Mr Ljubic Croatia is obliged by the Constitution to take care of the Croatian people of BIH and not of such declarations, as we do not want others to interfere with the internal affairs of Croatia, I think that neither Croatia can and cannot interfere with the internal affairs of the BIH. HDZ is to blame for what happened in the BiH, because it's part of the government. And it is HDZ's policy that has led to the problems that are now in the BiH. The declaration will not improve anything, Croats will be in a bad position at the BIH, only this declaration buys votes from voters in the BiH. And what's even worse and humiliating for HDZ is that you've teamed up with Milorad Dodik a man who denies integrity and statehood of the BIH and who glorifys convicted war criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121562	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic, the answer, my colleague Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121563	So in no sentence, not one word, therefore, Croatia does not interfere in this declaration with the internal affairs of the BIH, Croatia is only, therefore, following its obligations under the basis of its constitution and the basis of an international agreement signed by the point. As for who we will negotiate with in the BIH, the BIH needs 3 constituent peoples, i.e. the legitimate representatives of 3 peoples in the selected elections, negotiate and agree on the formation of power and the solution to change the electoral law and to change the Constitution, etc. etc. The alternative to Dodik is SDS, on the Serbian side. So I'm asking you who would you rather negotiate with? I think the answer is clear. Therefore, my colleague Mrsić, I ask you nicely to repeat today, let us talk today about the politics of Croatian Croats of the Republic of Croatia's policy so far, and we are already talking about the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121564	I thank my colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121565	Thank you very much, colleague Ljubic. We see here, unfortunately, a great misunderstanding at all about what the BIH is about. It means there's... We have two major problems, one issue is the election of the presidency and the Croatian member of the presidency, but an even bigger issue is the home of the peoples, both at the federal level and at home of the peoples at the state level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Advocating some solutions, which prevent Croats from affecting both the Federation president's choice through the home of the people and what else they can influence is very dangerous for the Croatian people in BIH. And the key moment right now was when there were 5 through 17 that actually allowed Croatian legitimate representatives to be kicked out of power. So that's what needs to be stressed. So this is not a question we've been having, it's a moment, maybe a reason, that some may have reacted more strongly than before, but the problems are deeper institutional and the problems need to be solved that way. And the home of the people is what is most important to me, constitutionally when you look at his jurisdiction, role, etc. all that talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121566	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol, the answer, my colleague Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121567	A fellow Falcon... Five minutes, even though I wasn't planning on the primary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here you keep trying and the problem is that it's trying to in BIH, things personalize. It is as if the issue of inequality of Croats is a personal issue either Zeljko Komsic or Dragan Covic or God Ljubic, etc. The constitutional question, an elemental constitutional question, and we can only solve it if we treat it that way. So the home of the people, of course, the Presidency is important at a symbolic level, but the home of the people from which the government has been evicted that the resources of the people are being created and decided is actually the essence and actually the reason why this declaration makes sense today. There is still no decision in the BiH Federation to choose the home of the people of the Federation,.../incomprehensible/... BiH and indeed the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government and diplomacy must point out to those who still have the basis for the OHR Security Council's mandate that any other approach other than amending the electoral law is anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121568	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121569	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Ljubic, you referred right after Mr. Hasanbegovic because he partly said that this declaration was a chamomile, in fact he said in part that he was some titoist and waver nebula salesman Željko Komsic, chosen by the voices of the titoist. I, as far as I know, Željko Komsic received around 240,000 votes, and I do not believe that they are only titoists, but also representatives of Bosniaks or Muslims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121570	Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121571	I thank my colleague Babić, therefore again to bring the problem of Croats to the current election cycle or personal question is actually a way not to solve the issue. So, I am familiar with the judgments of the European.../incomprehensible/... and Sejdić-Finci and Pilar and Zornić, so, but all these verdicts have the same goal that BiH is actually building on the so-called. The civil principle, in principle, is one vote, in order to actually relativise constitutionality or to deny the consistency of the people in BiH, and in fact I said something in my opening statement. So, since BiH's modern history, of Ottoman, of the Strugar, ancient Yugoslav, communist period, BiH has always been founded on similar consociative foundations and it can only be developed and survived and become stable. So each, therefore, every microcry to say so, this BiH citizen leads away from the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121572	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121573	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that the Croatian Parliament can and should discuss the neighbouring countries with which it should and wants good relations, there is no doubt, of course, that it can and should discuss the situation of Croats in BiH and Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Austria and other countries. However, this text of a declaration ahead of us as a proposal is not about the situation of Croats in BiH. He doesn't talk about Croats in Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Central Bosnia and Herzegovina. He talks only about the HDZ of BiH, and he speaks indirectly about the HDZ of the Republic of Croatia. This is a declaration of HDZ's stance towards BiH, if we have to define exactly what this proposed document is about and as such requiring changes to the constitution, amendments to the electoral law, changes to the regulation and tasking Croatian officials to do so and to implement it directly and flagrantly in BiH's internal affairs. Three EU commissioners for BiH have said what they think, they said that such interference of the Republic of Croatia in BiH's internal affairs is unacceptable. Croatia, or the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, responded more politely, in a more polite dictionary, the exact same thing that Milorad Dodig said in a more rude dictionary. Have we come to Dodig leading Croatian politics towards BiH? At this time, Dodig dictates or is at least an example of our reaction not to the situation in BiH and to the reaction of the European commissioners for the former BiH. Such behaviour and this declaration are directly against the reputation, influence and, in particular, I repeat and underline, are directly against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. This declaration goes against our reputation, against the possibility of affecting any decision at international level and against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. After this, who will take Croatia seriously when it comes to neighbours, and they do not ask us about other topics anyway. This declaration is referred to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, one part of an article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and I will also refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Citing the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, the Government, all institutions of the Republic of Croatia have above all and above all to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens, to protect the interests of the Croats and all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, its inhabitants. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia have also paid the taxpayers and employers of all of you, all of us, they pay for the existence of this Assembly, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, its taxpayers have paid the government's employers, all government officials, all officials and officials because they support them and without them no institution of the Republic of Croatia has any reason to exist without the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are the first interest of this Parliament. The first task of this Parliament and all institutions of the Republic of Croatia, this Parliament has no reason to become and the institutions of this state have no reason to exist. Our first tasks are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the interests of the Republic of Croatia and those of the people who chose us not only here but who also support all those institutions. Everything else is derived from this primary task, everything else is secondary or second-rately important in relation to what is the first task, the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the interest of its citizens. I'm going to give a few examples to illustrate what I was saying from the preamble, from the very text here the proposed declaration that is full of untruth, half-truth, factory and de facto of some kind could be said, pre-election campaigns. It is recalled in a preamble to the European Resolution and a report on BiH's progress, it is repeatedly quoted, quoting "all citizens can run on equal terms", a quote completed in BiH, and quoted all the time or quoted, not quotes, but simply states, the ruling in the case of Sejdic-Finci. Both doctrines between the other and this presidency, one Croat, one Bosniak, one Serb. Have either of you read the verdict of Sejdiu-Finci? In that case, both Sejdic and Finns, why they sued, could be members of the presidency. And there is no longer any guarantee that there will be, not only will they not be banned from the Croatian or the Bosniak people, but there should be neither Croat nor Bosniak nor Serb but simply any BiH citizen. It is the essence of the Sejdic-Finci verdict and it cannot be implemented not because the Bosniaks will not, but because, I mean, they may not, but it is not a major obstacle. What matters is the Constitution. It cannot be implemented because of the Dayton Constitution, it cannot be implemented because it is in conflict with the basic provisions of the Dayton Agreement. That's the problem. These things are constantly cited as some and that judgment among other things is cited as some illustration of the resistance of one of the groups in this case Bosniak against the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights without awareness that it is directly against what you are trying to advocate in this declaration, even beyond that. It also annuls this small fact of the representatives of the three constituent peoples in the Presidency in their being and therefore cannot be implemented, so it is a deception just to say here they do not give the implementation of European decisions, not that the Constitution, not that Dayton and that is the difficulty. It is said in the preamble of the very declaration of the fact that the Komsics chose or did not choose it, of course that the Bosniaks chose it, or that the Bosniaks voted for it, it is very likely, but it is not contrary to any document you are referring to here. We can say that it is not fair, we can say that it should be differently arranged but formal, architecture that I say BiH is absolutely in line with it, therefore, man has been chosen in the same way as Covic was chosen before him and before him again Komsic, so it is obvious that the whole noise and the need for this declaration appeared after these elections, whatever you claim, after Covic did not pass into the presidency. There is probably much greater interests than those that can be seen at first sight but it is in the context of a whole very schooling explanation of what the intention is and what the purpose of this declaration is. Let me get past that time is running out, get to the very text of the declaration. Croatia, of course, calls again on the fact that it has an obligation to take care of Croats outside Croatia as in Serbia, as in Montenegro, Hungary, Austria, etc., therefore everywhere and of course in BiH. Imagine these articles of the proposed Declaration, that in every article where BiH writes, just write down the Republic and that any country in the neighborhood, for example, says, for the success of what it says here, I quote the article first, for the successful functioning of BiH at all levels, it is crucial that all its constituent peoples and citizens are equal, that they have full confidence and faith in its future, absolutely. Now imagine in the Serbian Parliament bringing the Declaration and saying, for the successful functioning of the Republic of Serbia at all its levels, it is crucial that all its citizens, national minorities and dominant people have full confidence in it and believe in its future. I would agree that this is crucial, but I would be strongly opposed to having some other countries determine what we have and haven't done and evaluate what we have to and don't have to do in the Parliament of Serbia, BiH, Hungary. Of what it says here, it won't happen, of course, anything, except that the Republic of Croatia will lose its reputation. It is politics, I will end up quoting Stjepan Kljujic from the other day at the promotion of his book in Sarajevo, the edition of Bosnia. Kljujic says and I quote, Zagreb is the executioner of Bosnian Croats, Sarajevo has finished them, but it is already the second pair of sleeves. It is the first president of the HDZ, the enemy of the election of Komsic, a critic of many things that happen in BiH, this is how the policy of Zagreb's official and RS towards BiH is spoken of. At this same promotion, promoter Franjo Topic, a priest, no, especially known as the depraved liberal, for years the head of the Croatian Cultural Society Progress, says today the fight for power is being transferred to all nations, and the struggle over the chair is treated as a conflict of two peoples. You don't need anything else. Franjo Topic has assessed exactly what this is all about. I can only say that in BiH and the HDZ of the Republic of Croatia, that is this Declaration, of course we will never support it by defending the honor of this House and defending the honor of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121574	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Pusic, has been injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure, citing the truth, to strengthen their failed political debate. Namely, it is incorrect and it is very easy to check colleagues Pusic that this declaration was included in the HS agenda three months before the October 7th general elections were held in BiH. So, the ruling majority in the HS wanted to discuss this independently of the election results for a BiH presidency member. Thus, in order to justify your performance, you are also trying what is perfectly clear He also sees what this Assembly was manifested by the uplifting of hands [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] and including this item on the agenda. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121576	...college Bačić, you may be absolutely right about the untruth because a lot of the lies here have been told, not just today, but before, but unfortunately, Art. 238. The Rules of Procedure do not speak of falseness, it is a matter of political attitude and expression, and Croatian citizens will decide and evaluate all the statements and all the views. So, in the end, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121577	My colleague Pusic, believe me, I was surprised by your debate, given the views you once held on BiH and the position of the Croats, I had previously believed that you would declare this Declaration a camel as a colleague of Petrov. So I will, for the sake of our public, but also for your sake, remind you, quote what you once said, quote, the Dayton Agreement is unusable, BiH needs a new constitution, she pointed out that Republika Srpska's political fact, that BiH Croats do not have the basis for their political influence so far, and that Zeljko Komsic, I quote, was imposed on Croats, thanks to the gaps in the law, was said Vesna Pusic, president of the HS Committee for the Monitoring of EU Negotiations in 2010, Vecernji List. On 3 April 2014, an interview for Federal Television, editor Duška Jurisic, asked whether the third entity is still an option, I think, that it is absolutely crucial for BiH to come from the fact that it has 3 constituent peoples, not only are the fewth people of Croats, but because it is the first pluralism that BiH has become used to, it is defacto the only pluralism that has a tradition and of that pluralism we come from and build something that is the democratic ideal of civil pluralism, but if we have not mastered it either, how we will be able to overcome a much higher level of pluralism. From that point of view, 3 is much more useful and stable than 2. Two always enables direct conflict and conflict, three consents, but at the same time stabilizes direct conflict. In addition, there are three ethnic groups in BiH and this is a country and they must have the right to feel presented in that country and to feel good. That, I think, is crucial to BiH's success. Vesna Pusic, an interview with Free Europe on November 11th 2011, Foreign Minister Mirjana Rakela asks if you still think there should be another Croatian national entity and two other citizens in BiH. Wouldn't that have made BiH's complex opportunities worse? Minister Pusic answers, in my opinion, it would not make them worse because what exists has led them into a single stalemate position, a position from which BiH must in some way, a whole new way, re-establish and start rebuilding the state. A suggestion or an idea with 5 entities, 3 that recognise the existing situation on the ground and 2 that project a call to a future state is just one of "x" ideas, we as a country in the region must be able to take responsibility for our own region and therefore we need to be able to talk openly about different options. Now, look, if this declaration is a meddling in.../incomprehensible/... what are these statements, then where is this transformation from now on? And finally, Mrs Pusic, therefore Croatian taxpayers pay everyone here, but also Croatia enters EUR 3 billion annually from Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, many of whom come from BiH and I guarantee here, and I will prove that the Croats from BiH are living there and now the biggest investors under quotes from the Republic of Croatia. As for Sejdić Finci, the Croatian National Assembly proposed solutions that would allow both Sedic and Fincija and Pilava and Zornić to run and be elected, and that three peoples achieve the same legitimacy. I think there is plenty of time to say, the proposal was a Federation of one electoral unit, Republika Srpska's second constitution, the constitution recognises it in the Federation of BiH all municipalities are divided, A, B, C. A are which have 2/3 of the Bosniak majority, B are which have 2/3 of the Croatian majority and C are which do not have 2/3 of the majority of any people and all run for both Zornić and Pilava and Cović and Komsic etc., etc. 3 members, 2 members of the Federation presidency are those who received most of the votes in municipalities A and C, so the two-thirds Bosniak and so this C and the other member of the Federation are those who received most of the votes in B and C. Therefore, it is clear that the legitimacy will be expressed, so the majority people because the Federation is formed as a Bosniak-Croatian entity, and Republika Srpska as a Serb entity, because that name tells it by the constitution. I mean, I didn't give it to her. And therefore, we have solutions, of course, that we are ready to change the constitution but that all three peoples be put in the same position with regard to the achievement of their legitimacy in representation so that, of course, every citizen and Zornić and Pilava and Sedic and Finland can be allowed to be elected, and for me, it is absolutely acceptable for the Croatian representative in the presidency to be Dervo Sredić if elected by Croats rather than Bozo Ljubic if elected by Serbs or Bosniaks. So there is.../incomprehensible/... in BiH cannot be a different matter than a representative democracy, not a member democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121578	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for this debate. We have several replicas, a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121579	Thank you very much, with everything Vesna Pusic has said, and you have quoted fully. The Dayton Agreement I still think is extremely problematic and I always thought it was extremely problematic because it was designed to stop the war, not to build a state on it. But there's a state built on it, it's just at this point a fact, and we can't go on with it. So that's the fact that we have and that we're faced with and out of it are both the constitution and all the other provisions. I repeat once again, with all due respect, the first concerns of this assembly are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live here, here pay taxes and interests of the Republic of Croatia, this is our first task, I don't remember ever talking so much about Croatia how much we're talking about BiH today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121580	I thank my colleagues Pusic, we can talk about Croatia every day for one day of the year and about the Croats in BiH. Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121581	My colleague Pusic, so I made the quotes from your statements, so while you were an official in the Republic of Croatia, I was about to trouble you with your thesis on the alleged interference of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we agree that the Dayton Agreement is therefore inadmissible. I'll tell you what, but I don't have time to say it right now, I'll say it later in the debate, so this one, while we're in a position to be able to change the Dayton Peace Agreement or Annex 4, so we need to secure the selection of legitimate representatives of three constituent peoples, because in the last elections of 2013. 97% of BiH citizens declared as Serbs, Bosniaks or Croats. So, will we design the electoral law and BiH's relations to 3% of people or to 97% of people, that's the basic question. So I come from the real fact that there are three constituent peoples in BiH and solutions must come from that, and allow all citizens to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121582	I thank my colleague Ljubic for this reply to the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121583	Col. Ljubic, you're saying that a colleague of Petrov said this is a camel, that this is a camel, it's not just a river of counterpart Petrov, so said counterpart Brkic. So you signed a year ago, the initiative of Herceg-bosna students, the amendments that we have now given, you have signed, which I will give you amendments to this declaration, this is a camel, this must not be just a HDZ declaration as they declare this should be a general declaration of all of us if possible, if it's not possible then it's your declaration, it's your political position. And you, if you are defending someone else to give the declaration and to give amendments to protect members of HVO, students and all groups down on these people in BiH where the Croats are, then you consider it a camel, that this proposal is a camel. Which is why you gave up those ideas that made us, that you signed, that you should answer here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121584	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121585	My colleague Bulj, I think that me and my colleague Petrov can agree because we're both doctors, I was, even a professor, and he took an orthopedic exam in front of me, so the camel is healing, healing, so this one's so much about chamomile. And as for the statement I signed last year, of course I signed it with full consciousness, this one I sign, but also that statement, to a significant extent, made by the documents that I created in the Croatian National Assembly and so on, and so on. So we have no big differences, but we have differences about it, so we are trying therefore to bring a declaration to the Croatian government, the presidents, the institutions to effectively represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and the interests of the Republic of Croatia are also the survival of the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a political entity on their... That's the goal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it would be very bad if this document were understood, therefore, by voting, by the discussion as it is, as a single party document,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121586	I thank my colleague Ljubic for his reply. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Ljubic, so as many Croats are in a schizophrenic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here is one initiative, otherwise not formally yet, some formalised in the BiH parliament, appeared as a statement by a Bosniak politician that Friday is declared a non-working day in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Bosniaks of the majority, make up the majority in the Federation, and according to the current electoral law, therefore, and for which you are co-responsible because you have not insisted on changing the electoral law since before, this could therefore be voted on. So, the majority people will declare Friday, because it's in their religious culture as a day off and they can declare those Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121588	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121589	Well, then, every initiative is legitimate, but I'm convinced that this initiative will not get most of it, so the passage to this one... the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the schizophrenicity of the situation, here I am defending my own, so to tell my first country, my homeland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on this debate here in Parliament, I would say that the situation here is also quite schizophrenic. But I hope it won't be like that, that it will be ecumenical when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121590	I thank my colleague Ljubic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ljubic, I have two questions. First question, how do you explain the metamorphosis of fellow Pusic? So, we've heard this interference, thought interference in Bosnia and Herzegovina's policy, if you want mental aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal arrangements, and today averts some kind of thought interference in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that means that. And the second question is, is there any reaction to any letter from a former High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina about the thought ending of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You might know that, you're a documentary, so maybe you know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121592	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac. Dear colleague Kovac, just a little colleague Ljubic, I'm not finished, sit down, I'll call you. Dear counterpart Kovac, I would ask you nicely not to disrespect your sayings by any parliamentary representative and representative. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121593	Well, I wouldn't talk about metamorphosis, so... A little higher category, so, uh, change, but in changing attitudes maybe, but I don't think it's even about that, I even think that colleague Pusic has the same views that she had before, so Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be reconstructed in the same way both with regard to administrative territorial organisation and with regard to institutional rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is it? Well, legitimately, the opposition actually finds some niche where it will attack the position, and that's the only way I can interpret it. And as far as high officials are concerned, I said that, they have no credibility or relevance whatsoever, and there is no need to pay any attention to that at all, so eventually the minister also made it clear that it had no echo in the European Council. It's about... people who directly contributed to the damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] has imposed the status that the Constitutional Court has annulled, which has allowed for a fourfold higher vote in the southeast part of Mostar, where Bosniaks live, compared to the southwestern where Croats live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to what relevance and credibility such a person has to say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121594	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Pusic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121595	Thank you very much. I react to 238 for thought aggression, so I find it extremely offensive to the consistency of my views and consistency in my views. As for metamorphosis, I said here at first that of course you could talk about it, and you should talk about it. The declaration is something completely different, the Declaration of Parliament is the intervention of the state, and we can absolutely talk about all the topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121596	Thank you, dear colleague Pusic, I would like to ask you nicely not to abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure in the future. I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt in any way. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121597	Thank you very much. And your colleague Ljubic referred to the exhibition of her colleague Pusic where she spoke again about things she did not know too much about, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So that's where she mentioned taxpayers, I guess those who pay income tax, and that's a very small percentage of Croatian citizens, but I'll, as I guess, be the only one who should decide everything, quote article 1. The constitution, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens, a citizen, so once again I will repeat the citizen for those who find it harder to understand. So the Croats in BiH are practically 100% citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not make any distinction between citizens living in Croatia part of the time, do not live in Croatia part of the time, and so on. And that's what needs to be pointed out. No taxes, tax bonds, income taxes from which most Croatian citizens are exempt and... there is mentioned, the tax is mentioned only in one place and it has nothing to do with political law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what needs to be repeated, because that bribe is for taxpayers, it's been repeated for 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121598	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Answer, dear colleague Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121599	I thank my colleague Sokol, so as a legal expert, I'm sure you can explain it better than I do, but I absolutely agree with you. So, Croatian citizens are those who have the right to be represented in the Croatian Parliament, on the other hand, back in the 91st year, to line up the National Guard Assembly (ZNG) in Kranjčević, I claim that there were half of the people or directly from BiH Croats or originally from BiH and then no one asked when they died for Dubrovnik, Vukovar, Škabrnje etc. Did we pay taxes or didn't pay taxes? This is the Croatian Parliament, this is not the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, so this is the Assembly of all Croats, and as such I am the Croat outside the Republic of Croatia, here today at the opportunity to talk to you equally about this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121600	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic for his reply. The next replica is a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, fellow Ljubic tried to impose the thesis that this Declaration is a interference in BiH's internal policy, which is actually one hypocrisy, given that every week we witness internal EU interference in this House, and we also pass the laws by emergency procedure, so we could say that in one way or another we are a schizophrenic situation. However, we are aware that Europe today is seeking to level the values it expects its development and prosperity, BiH is also more difficult, it is declared that its goal, at least of European integration, is therefore our obligation to advocate the principles and values by which BiH must be established and from this point of view. Not just from the position of the Constitutional [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121602	Answer, colleague Ljubic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121603	A colleague of Tudjman, any claim or finding in this Declaration, is based on international documents of which the Republic of Croatia is either a signator or a member. So if the European Parliament's resolution clearly speaks about BiH's impediment to reforms, the Euro-Atlantic Pact, etc., clearly indicates what the problem is, that the problem is that there is no possibility of representing constituent peoples and recommendations for BiH to be established on the principles of federalism and legitimate representation, what else does this mean, it is already the EU's recommendation to move towards changing the Constitution of the Election Law. So, the saying in point 17. Resolutions are being made on the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Ljubic's case and requires that the verdict be implemented, the resolution was adopted in 2017. So, I repeat what I said... So [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] EU member states are entitled to point out [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] in her interest. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121604	... I'll kiss your answer. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ representative club, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121605	Mr. Vice President, Ministers with Associates, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Coli Ljubic, in his opening address, indicated several of the most important disputes in BiH's political life that illustrate the unequal position of the Croatian people in relation to other peoples in BiH, when it comes to selecting members of the BiH presidency, when it comes to choosing the age of the people of the Federal Parliament, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of the People in Republika Srpska, the elections in Mostar and a number of other examples, and I think that I will try to avoid the broader discussion of the issues mentioned. But fellow MPs who spoke on behalf of the clubs today encouraged me to look back at a part that was neglected by the evaluations of political relations in BiH in the time of the war in BiH and postwar time until, here are the last years of BiH's political life. In fact, here we could hear a series of disqualifications when it comes to, say, Serbs in BiH and this was won by some colleagues and the dimension of anti-Serbs who are trying to legitimise themselves in a tragic war in the Republic of Croatia and the victims of both Croats and Serbs in the war in the Republic of Croatia. So it is up to the legitimate representatives of the Serb people in BiH to speak with disqualifications, but also to take care on the other hand when the Bosniak political representatives are mentioned to do so with the chosen words as if they simply did not participate in BiH's political life and who are not in the good part and the causes of the fact that BiH is being debated today in the HS. What's this about? It is legitimate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia to talk about the Serbian, large- Serbian, Croatian, large-scale Croatian programme when it comes to BiH, and the taboo is the theme of the Muslim policy in BiH, today Bosniak politics in BiH. And what's this all about? This is happening for the simple reason not to know the facts of BiH's reality, whether BiH's contemporary history, or BiH's history, so I will briefly state that at the end of the 8th year when the process of decomposition or the crisis in the former Yugoslavia was supervised, a key question arises within the intellectual circles of the Bosniak people whether Bosniaks will stand up for BiH in which they will dominate the entire BiH area or decide on part of BiH's territory that they have concluded with their sessions that they can prosper, which will have economic and transport logic. So that's exactly what this is about today's BiH problem that we are talking about today in the context of this declaration. Similar views of the Serb side in BiH or the Croatian sides in BiH are Satanised both in the political life of the Republic of Croatia and internationally, while concrete views are therefore... available to the international and scientific and political public, simply putting under the rug and thus trying to further cloud BiH's problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the war in BiH, which also misrepresents itself here under its key consequences, above all, the proportion of ethical cleansing in the BiH area, the loss in BiH, is very easy to get into assessments of the situation in Republika Srpska and the loss of the Croatian people in Republika Srpska. Yes, it was, therefore, coercive as a consequence of the war, because of war circumstances in the Republika Srpska area or under the control of the Republika Srpska military in BiH, that is, there are 140,000 Croats missing. From an area controlled by the Bosniak army, the BiH army lacks 170,000 Croats. That is not said, only this dimension stands out, so the population movement was also in other neighbouring countries of BiH and is not talking about it but simply focusing on the dimension, depending on which side you want to talk unilaterally about BiH. Well, it is these facts that are based on the constitutional court's judgment that Mr. Ljubic spoke of the constitution of the people. Namely, ethnic cleansing ratios in the BiH area are precisely determined by competent international, political and scientific institutions. So from an area controlled by the HVO in the midst of such circumstances or persecution of the population, 12 000 not Croats, so Bosniaks and Serbs. 529 000 Serbs and Croats have been expelled from the BiH Army-controlled area. Republika Srpska's army-controlled area was either expelled or left the area as a result of the war, 586 000. So we can tell Serbs are responsible for 47% ethnic cleansing or population movement, Bosniaks by 43%, Croats by 9%. But we will not bid these figures here, but this is the reality of BiH which has been established in the Constitutional Court's ruling on Ali Izetbegovic's request to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of the Federation Constitution and the Constitution of Republika Srpska precisely for the reason of this ethnic cleansing. So the Constitutional Court in that judgment states that ethnic homogenisation in Republika Srpska is realised as follows. In 1991, 54% of Serbs were in the area, 96% of Serbs in 1997. In the Federation of BiH, 1191, 52% of Bosniaks, 1997. 72% of Bosniaks. When it comes to ethnic homogenisation of the war in BiH, the Croats are only 0.14 shouldn't, from 22.14 to 22.27. Why did Ali Izetbegovic initiate the constitutional assessment? So simply because he was more at the end of his life trip and his key political programme met with two key details, it was a denial of the collective and national rights of the people in BiH, under the cover that Bosniaks as the dominant majority would ensure BiH's perspective as a future Bosniak state. When he could not realize it during the war, when he saw that he was at an end of power, he wanted to secure the Federation of BiH's space as his Bosniak entity. Ali Izetbegovic succeeded, and we are talking today about deconstituting Croats in BiH, who are hypocritical to talk about the equality of the people of BiH, I will illustrate the following facts. In the Federation of BiH because there are no Serbs who can ensure the representation of the Serb people in the political life of the Federation of BiH entity, representatives of the Republika Srpska Assembly have launched an assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions, the Constitution of the counties, the statutes of municipalities because Serbs are not constitutional in practical terms, in terms of the realization of equality and constitutionality. The BiH Constitutional Court rejected such two demands and 36 MPs from Republika Srpska and Mladen Bosic, the former SDS president. and then Bosniak, the Prime Minister and the Federation, along with several Bosniaks, appears as a representative of Serbian interests, and he initiates a constitutional assessment suit. So it's about top hypocrisy that doesn't respect BiH's reality. It says here how, for years, the Dayton Peace Agreement has been overcome, and we Croats in BiH have listened to how it should be respected, that the world power is behind it, and we have respected it, regardless of what a good part of the Dayton Agreement's provisions has been at our expense. But let's ask ourselves, did the Croats and Bosniaks fight for Republika Srpska? No, they're not. Did the Serbs fight for the identity of the Federation of BIH? No, they're not. So the Dayton Peace Accords only found reality in the political life of BIH, which Alej Izetbegovic as a political philosopher was aware and wanted to do so with the help of certain foreigners in the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 2 Bosniaks, which he also announced in the press before the Constitutional Court's ruling, so he wanted to leave in the political life of BIH his political heritage, and his political heritage in the area of BIH is greater if God gave them conditions. For now, in the field of the Federation of BIH. Therefore, Croatians are naturally based on this ambition of influence forces and in the structures of European states and other key world powers are simply in trouble. To whom will the Croats address and from whom will they ask for help, where will this discuss our problems in the BIH? It is natural in the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament, without ambition that we interfere from the Croatian Parliament into the poetic and present and future of the BIH. But Croatia as an EU member should advocate the rule of law. The rule of law will ensure peace and stability of the BiH, and I believe it is an ambition from all EU members. Now how do you do that? So I'm simply repeating several times in the context of the debate with real evaluations of the situation in BIH, some colleagues here who have talked about meddling in political opportunities in BIH, they are not aware that they have accepted one form, a stereotype that has been created as a consequence of the impact of the propaganda of world forces, which they are doing this again for their own reasons, and it is completely legitimate to interfere with the opportunities in the BIH, if you will support everything that Bosniak politics in BIH does and violence against the Croatian people. Some colleagues here today have advocated violence against the Croatian people in the BIH because it is legitimate, so wants the Western world to which we belong, and that is to the harm of the Croatian people, and that is not a problem. So, ultimately, the Republic of Croatia needs to stop turning the head of the BiH. Unfortunately that is what is happening, the Republic of Croatia is aware of the context in which the Croatian people are located. All international levels where there are influences should raise the question of the BiH, of course within international standards and real political relations. Through its institutions, through its state policy, the institutions of the media, culture and education in the BIH should also be supported, which will help maintain the political subjectivity and identity of the Croatian people in the BIH. The HDZ Club will also submit 2 amendments to this declaration. Item 21 is changed and is based on our proposal, respecting the role and importance of the Croatian Defence and Defence Council, we welcome the resolution of the status and existential issue of the defence population of disabled people and victims of the Homeland War, which brings new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Amendment 2 to Article 2 6. item 8 is added which reads that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia submits once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the Croatian Parliament declaration on the position of the Croatian people in the BIH. And I would suggest that we do not have much confidence, we will not change our view of the BiH, colleagues who think that we should not help the Croatian people in the BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121606	Thank you for your discussion. We're on our way. The debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, will be shared by counterpart Jankovics and counterpart Misic, please welcome colleague Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121607	Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed minister, the secretary of state, the secretary of state, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will start this brief debate from the end, so our club will support this declaration, when we see the amendments, then we will decide on them. We will support it because we believe that it provides one support, a clear unambiguous public to the Croatian people in the BIH, another thing is that people who sit in this Croatian Parliament, who are from there, support it, they see that it is good, their opinion is important to us. And on the third hand, possibly not supporting this declaration, would send more than a disastrous message to the Croatian people in BiH. I can only add that there's a first variant left, they'd support her, too. The debate we have heard so far in the Croatian Parliament has been too often related to the names of persons with the names of political parties, our debate is principled and the names of members of the Croatian people's representation are relevant for this debate and I also consider the parties to make a serious mistake, non-state and unworthy that the debate comes down to which party is a member of the Croatian people's presidency in the BIH, and I believe that this makes a serious mistake. We consider the issue strategic at the level of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, and by no means inter-party accounting. Since there is a very large possibility of misunderstanding or that we do not deliberately understand everything we say about this speaker, we find it uncontestable to say that no one who is supposed to be before us has disputed the territorial integrity of our neighbours of BiH with whom we want good neighbourly relations, we support them on their European path, but we also support the Constitution of the Republic of BiH which is in Article. 10th prescribes care for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. We understand that there is a difference between the first and second variants above all because we do not want to, no one wants to, no one reasonable wants to endanger the position of Croats in BiH in a way that accuses us of interfering with neighbouring country's internal affairs. So that's why we decided to support this Declaration in the form of it being changed. Here, several speakers before us, at the end of their discussion that was not metric, ended up with the question of what was the solution. So, if there is something here, everyone before me could agree, which is that the choice of Željko Komsic is unequivocally not the will of the Croatian people. So, in the October 7th elections, someone who is not the will of the Croatian people in BiH was elected on behalf of the Croatian people, and that was the agreement here so far. So we're not talking about the question of legality, we're talking about the question of legitimacy. What is the solution and as I see it, therefore, by changing from the first to the second version, this Declaration is one cry, one attempt to get support from the international community to bring the Electoral Law into line with the real needs of the three peoples living in BiH. This is the task, both of these Declarations and of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of the entire Croatian policy. If we're doing this bilaterally, if we're doing it multilaterally, that's the Foreign Ministry thing. I can welcome what the foreign minister of Slovakia said the other day, former High Commissioner for BiH, Mr Miroslav Lajjak, quote, Komsic's choice is in line with the constitution, but not in line with the spirit of the Dayton Agreement. So this is what Croatian diplomacy should go in, try to raise awareness of the international community that it is quite clear that it has full priorities than it is BiH, that we are not only talking about the EU, Brexit, the migrant crisis, about the upcoming elections, that no one, the impression that Bosnia, except us, is not important, is the task of trying to affirm them to work together to create a new design, therefore, a new solution that will be in line with the needs of the people living in BiH. That road is unequivocally long, thorny, another time we can't see. It's clear how I said it to many important factors, how through the Atlantic, that it's on this side of the Atlantic right now is not a priority. In addition to the position of my colleague Misic, I feel the need to express my support for the Croatian politics towards the Croatian people in BiH and as a representative of the Hungarian minority here, because it is clear that Hungary has the same policy towards the Hungarians living in Hungary and the surrounding countries, therefore, we should not, we should not touch anyone's territorial integrity, but we support our own compatriots in that country, except for the constitutional obligation, it must be something that we all sit on together, we should focus and work on, and how I say, apart from the club, I support and personally and to finish this part of mine before we hand over the word, I express support the Croatian people in BiH, I want them to endure, both in the name of the club and personal name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121608	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Jacobics. The debate continues, dear colleague Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121609	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear ministers, State Secretary and Secretary of State with an assistant, I thank you for being present today, which we can discuss a little bit about BiH, about a country that has suffered so much throughout this century that it is really worth discussing. Looking at BiH today, I can say freely as a Croat who I was born in BiH that I am very unhappy to this day about the policies that were being conducted in BiH. What we're discussing today is probably long ago, long ago, our BiH-led politicians took a little care of it. We know the Washington Agreement when it was Dayton, the Constitution of BiH, the Resolution on BiH and today the Declaration that we are discussing. When we remember BiH before the war and BiH today and the Dayton Agreement, I would feel free to say, then one knife in the back of BiH, which can't come out of it today and we don't know how it's going to end. The rights of Croats are guaranteed by the BiH Constitution, however, these rights are only declarative, Croats in BiH practically have no rights. Is this the Federation, whether it is the Serbian Republic and this Declaration should also refer to the Serbian Republic and the Federation. The Croatian Constitution also gives us the right to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which I can say so far, as far as BiH is concerned, I have not noticed that it has been so long and so committed to BiH. I will especially highlight the Bosnian Posavina where we were a majority people with 40% expelled, almost 200 000 Croats who were kept silent for days, nothing further, and the Croats were, of course, burned down at 5% today, in fact have no rights in the Serbian Republic, but nothing at all, they can't be chosen, they can't be chosen, they're simply gone, they haven't come back because their houses have been destroyed, only a few Catholic churches are trying to fight for those areas where people have been expelled, persecuted and we imagine 200,000, 150 000 Croats who have lost their homes that have never tried to fix and have tried to solve, and today, 25 years later, that all villages to Derventa have been burned and no one is trying to find a solution there. I hope this government and this now that we have leadership in the Croatian state and I have a personal impression that something is still going on, that something is still going on, and I have to thank the Office for the evicted Croats and Zvonko, especially Milas, you may be the first man to try Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also the whole of BiH, and with your insistence, I think a lot of light shined in the eyes of the Croats, the Bosnian Posavia who have seen some progress, but, it is very, very small, but, hopefully, it will eventually go in a better direction. The fighting church, which simply wants the Croats to survive in BiH, if we look at historic BiH until the arrival of the Turks of the Ottoman Empire, was Bosnia and all the kings were Croats and were tied to Croatia. With the arrival of Austria-Hungarians, the Croats saw little, they had one home, a little easier life after the Turks, and something was working out, even a lot of it did. During Yugoslavia and one and the other, Croats were once again persecuted by some political and otherwise expelled and persecuted from BiH. If we look at it, history, historically Bosnia was the most Croatia. Today, where we are, there is no one, everyone has a right, they are even taking away the consistency that we have both the configuration and everything and this Declaration that we are discussing today and this Komsic's elected member of the presidency I think it is wrong, that we Croats must, even if the BiH Constitution changes, ask that we Croats can choose our representative. I think this is the time not to talk about it, clearly, it was a couple of times where elected representatives, but why it wasn't done before, I don't know, I think it's time. The other thing, seeing as we've got two Federal, Federal One and the Serbian Republic, of course, that's not good for Bosnia either, is not good for Croats living there, whether in the Federation, whether in the Serbian Republic. What to do about it. Of course, we as a state don't have to be what we just said some colleagues who said chamomile, we need to be clear. I observe Slovenians as much as they ask in the European Parliament and ask for what they belong to and what they think is right, neither should we hesitate from HS, or even our Government and our foreign ministers, I think you must be a little clearer, and also our HVO defenders who have been neglected, who have defended the Republic of Croatia as well as BiH. We don't have TV in Sarajevo, we don't have our TV Croatian, and everyone else has, we don't have radio, we have to have, we need to be informed about what's going on. Who knows BiH will see that BiH, especially Croatia's areas, I know them well, I lived there, and looking in the future that if this people, if one and the other, and the other, could live happily, could the people want to live in BiH, less politicize, more live, and our politicians, especially Croatia, must be clear, must protect all Croats, whether they are in Central BiH or Posavian. So far, I could say that it was not enough and I think I can freely express one dissatisfaction in this modern time that has been spent these 25 years of BiH and I hope today, these last three years that I have been watching, so I think that there has come a conscience of politicians and in BiH that we have to look for our space, our place and look for even a change of constitution, so Bosnia could be similar, maybe today, tomorrow, to be made like Belgium or Switzerland, so that everyone has a right, and especially in the Constitution that Croats can choose their representatives in the government, in the presidency and there should not give up on it, but we must be firm, and not so, not a camel to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121610	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Misic, a colleague of Jankovics for these discussions. Because it's been 13 hours, based on the article. 249a. The possibility of taking the stand of the club representatives, no one answered, then we continue to discuss this item on the agenda. On behalf of the SDSS representative's club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121611	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDSS advocates' club believes this is a serious issue, such as the BiH issue is a serious issue, as is the issue of the situation of Croats in BiH. What we know about the situation of Croats in BiH, particularly demographically, is no doubt a reason for serious concern, during the years of war, return years, which is due to the war in BiH, which due to the war in Croatia, Croats in the BIH, have been significantly weakened and reduced. The process, unfortunately, continues. And for us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, regardless of which ethnic group might belong, this is certainly a reason to ask ourselves how and in what way the damages that are undoubtedly done in the conduct of Croatian politics towards the BIH, then also towards the Croatian people in the BIH, how and how these damages do not repeat, and on the other hand how to do, that the new circumstances, which encourage people to leave, were those economic or social ones, how it affects, to change that, to stop it. Otherwise, we will be in a position for the Croats to come to a number that will compromise their position. As far as the subject is concerned, I will say this on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club, it is doubtless that Croats in the BIH have the right to present themselves in the BiH presidency. But it is no doubt that an election solution can result in a result that one of the two nations, other than Croats, can, therefore, influence whether Bosniaks or Serbs, the outcome of this, will be that choice. And if there's confirmation that it's happened or that it's happening, then everything needs to be done to avoid such risks and such opportunities. Because regardless of what is not said anywhere by which candidate should be chosen, whether the one behind which most of the Croatian people stand or behind which is a small part of the Croatian people, and the rest are members of the people of one or the other, Bosniaks or Serbs, there is no doubt that the risk that one of the people, in this case the fewest people in the BIH, and that is the Croatian people, will happen to the god that the representative should be chosen by the votes of one of the two other people. In particular, if this is aimed at a certain kind of political impact and defining political relations within the BIH between the 3 constituent peoples. Here our colleagues who wrote this declaration claim that this is exactly what happened in the case of the last elections and that it happened in the case of some earlier elections. Is that so, entirely, I can't claim it on behalf of the SDSS Club but I know that such a possibility exists, we see it. And we belong to these clubs in this assembly, which, when we are already discussing this topic, we think we should find an election solution, which should be reduced to a minimum. This is the first, second, as regards the campaign led by the BIH on the matter and Croatia on the matter, which means about the result of the elections, which some colleagues consider absolutely negative, and some colleagues again believe that they are in accordance with some principles, we think that this campaign, it was coming from the BIH, it was coming from Croatia, if it is overly intrinsically intrinsic, if it carries intrinsic tones that spread mistrust and insults, so they have the characteristics of what might be called interference in things that no one can directly interfere with, then we have to think about. I'm sure we'll have to think about that. I must say that I do not like either the reactions, some of the elected members of the BiH presidency, who, when commenting on the anti-candidate or commenting on the results of the elections or when commenting on what comes as expressions of concern and from Croatia, certainly do not contribute to this, as the situation in BIH will stabilise, do not contribute, no doubt. That language is non-democratic, that language is not a language of trust. I could say similarly about certain messages that have come from our side and we should do everything possible to approach this matter in a way that we do not deepen the mistrust between the BIH and Croatia and that we do not deepen the mistrust between the people in the BIH, because we will not facilitate the position of Croats in the BIH, we will only make it difficult. And as I said, the interest of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS as one of the clubs in this assembly is not to make this position difficult, but to make it easier and to strengthen and strengthen and make the future more certain than it is right now. The third thing we would like to say and regarding the Dayton Agreement is both the signatories of the Dayton Agreement from our region, which is our country, and the Republic of Serbia, Croatia and the Republic of Serbia have committed themselves to the things that were most important at that time and we will not interfere with BiH's affairs. Not only will we respect territorial integrity and integrity but we will actually let BiH discuss the issues that need to be discussed within itself. We made a commitment. Signed in Dayton. The bad experience that we had in this regard before the Dayton Agreement brought us into this situation. How can we, with such a restriction, act to help the Croats in BiH, do so. On the basis of the Constitution, on the basis of international acts and on the basis of what stems from the obligations of each country and then from the obligations of the Constitution of the Republic of BiH itself where part of the argument in this argument is built on this, on the continuity of constitutional, internal order and equality of three constituent peoples. We can insist on that. Of course, it will necessarily come into collage with the fact that we have two entities and the fact that we have the right of citizens. So at least two more constituent elements will be discussed in the whole story when we discuss BiH. And we don't need to lose sight of them, and we don't need to accuse each other because the more advantage someone gives to the civic model, someone gives more advantage to the national model, we're discussing it here. At this point, the issue of national equality has re-emerged. And we respect it. And I think we should appreciate that, but we know it's not the only way to get rid of things in BiH. In this regard, I think that we as a country would be more credible if we were to act in our own constitutional space and in our own international obligations the way we call for BiH to act. At the same time as the Dayton Agreement was signed, just before that in the same package, a Erdutic Agreement was signed in the same part of peacemaking in the former Yugoslavia. Do we respect the Erdutic Agreement? Are we holding on to the Erdut Agreement? Or do we consider him a dead letter on paper? Unfortunately, this is the other one. It is evident how many anniversarys have passed since the signing of the Erdutic Agreement, which is not attended by a more significant representative of the state. It is shown by the respect of Article 11. The Erdut Agreement and those documents that came out of it. How long does it take to register Serbian minority schools in eastern Slavonia? To transfer the founding rights to three municipalities? In other words, how much are we able to practice the elements of national equality within our own country? I know it's not simple, but just because it's not simple, as it's not simple in BiH, we have to look for a solution as responsible people. As far as the declaration itself is concerned, this House has brought a series of declarations, so the reality of politics has not become better because we have brought these declarations. This House has brought a series of declarations, so what was intended to be achieved by these declarations has not been achieved. I wouldn't want that to happen with this declaration, too, first thing I'd like to do, and under those assumptions, the SDSS Representatives Club will be managed during the vote, I'd like this declaration to be further agreed between clubs. Not because I don't see the problem, not because I underestimate the problem of the situation of Croats in BiH, but because I would not want it to cause the already seen divisions that were partially felt in replicas here in this Assembly on the issue of the status and position of Croats in BiH. Otherwise, as I said, I will repeat it for the end, yes, there is a problem with the way a representative of the Croatian people in the BiH presidency is elected. This opens up the possibility that most members of the Croatian people feel that their will has not been expressed. And if you ask me, as I have done in a number of other places, domestic and international, I will do and in the future not only for this pay phone with the full respect of the members of the rest of the peoples. On the other hand, the fact is that there are rhetorical, controversyal exchanges between Croatia and BiH that do not contribute to the serious treatment of this problem but that Croatia is actually bringing into debate which it will not benefit from and debates in BiH that will not benefit from relations between any of the three peoples. Especially won't be useful to the Croats. We therefore welcome some of the elements of the Declaration concerning social, economic, cultural and other forms of support to members of the Croatian people in BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121612	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pupovac. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and Power Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121613	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is my duty as counsel to tell the truth and only the truth. And that's what I'm gonna do to this opportunity. Unfortunately, the truth is that many Croats in BIH see their saviors in the Catholic Church and in HDZ. For this reason, I believe it is my duty to expose these false rescuers of the Croatian people in the BIH. I'm going to start with the role of the Catholic Church, which, unfortunately, is dark, historically speaking. Everyone knows that the Constantinople of Istanbul today successfully fought against the Ottoman invasion. However, the Roman Pope Pontifex Maximus, who considers himself a high priest even though the Bible clearly states that the high priest is only one and that Jesus Christ refused to help the Eastern Church with the belief that it is better to eliminate the Eastern Church than to survive. Instead of helping Christians in the east, the Pope waged religious wars against Western Christians, Protestants who refused to be under his boot, his yoke. There was a conflict between the two Papas, one in Rome, the other in Avignon, France, and he called one another an antichrist. And then John Wycliffe, a prominent reformer, asked whether both were right when they said he was an antichrist. What I'm saying is, if you go to Wikipedia, young people can go there, they'll see an article under the impressive title BISH in the Ottoman Empire, they can go to it at any time. It says the following baptisms embraced Islam, the roots of mass Islamisation were the previous 250 years of religious conflicts between the Roman Catholic Church and the Bosnian Church. There was, by all accounts, a church freed from Rome and the Pope. The Roman high priest could not accept it, and they were pressured by these people, and they were actually forced to cataclysm them. So they made people accept a religion they didn't want. It is not my thesis, it is the thesis written on Wikipedia Croatia. And what happened later? Those people who were forced to accept Catholic religion when the Turks came saw that the Turks treated them better than the Roman Pope, and that's when Bosnia whispered, because they embraced Islam massively. What happened in Bosnia did not happen in Bulgaria either, where the Eastern Church was, where it remained until today's Eastern Church, neither in Greece, Macedonia, Serbia or Montenegro. It just happened in the BiH because of the Catholic Church's policy. The other thing that the peoples who lived in the BIH at that time, namely us Croats and Serbs, we were brother tribes and there were no conflicts between us. And moreover, we were always under a foreign yoke and a foreign government that wanted to subjugate us. We fought against the French state together both Serbs and Croats, fought together against Avar, fought together and against the Turks. But while we were fighting the Turks and the Turks were sticking their heads on a stake, you think the Roman Pope moved his finger to help people. Do you think it is? A little tomorrow, a little morgen would say the Germans. He has left us to the mercy of the Serbs and us to the Croats. And now, what's going on is World War I and Croatia are coming into the unfortunate war side of Austria-Hungarian. And Austro-Hungarians ran politics the same way as Hitler's Germany, and that's wildebeests et empires. In the politics of the wildebeest et Empire, divide and rule, little nations turn against one another to make it easier for all to rule. This you had seen in Hitler's occupation of Czechoslovakia, when he took the Czechs of Sute and Slovakia as his allies, you can imagine how much he cared about Slovakia, then in Croatia he turned Croats against Serbs, then in Ukraine he told the Ukrainians your enemies were Russians. Wherever she could, the side of the boot turned the brothers' people to each other. It was also the policy of Austro-Hungarian, a policy that would lead to the first time in the history of war between Croats and Serbs, which was not our war, not even II. World War I. But now I want to look back on the tragic role of HDZ in the BiH. I know that many HDZ colleagues will say that what you are talking about in the Living Wall is not true, but I will now not speak my words, or quote, the words of the first president of the HDZ, so that his words here today would condemn you and that he would speak here today instead of me instead of him, because he can't be here today. Says the man of the next thought, Stjepan Kljuic, says, Kljuic became president of HDZ BIC before the war, articulated Croatian politics during the period during which the fight for independence of the BIH and defence against Serbian aggression was fought, and was politically eliminated when he was replaced by Mate Boban, according to instructions from Zagreb. The key never hesitated to show that it was removed by a policy aimed at dividing the BIH along ethnic borders, and on Saturday, he reiterated it by realizing that he was the victim, but that he sought it by refusing to give up the principles he held worthy of fighting. I claim Zagreb is the executioner of Bosnian Croats. Sarajevo finished them off, but it is already the second pair of sleeves – Kljujic says, insisting that the late Croatian President Tudjman Bosnia and Herzegovina did not like it, nor did he know it, while insisting that he was listened without a word in the policy implementation he had designed himself. He says this, he says, that HDZ's policy that sought to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina led the Croats and Bosniaks to war, to a war that was meaningless, to a war that was unnecessary and that war was imposed. It was planted from Zagreb. However, there were people in BiH who opposed the war. One of them was General Blaž Kraljević, whose units were fought together by Croats and Muslims and Bosniaks. However, the unity of Croats and Bosniaks was not acceptable to Tudjman's policy because his policy was aimed at dividing BiH. And with the aim of implementing that policy, war crimes have been committed for which people have been later convicted by law in the International Court of Den Hague. Unfortunately, to this day HDZ has not given up on this policy and unfortunately it is linked figuratively to the "black devil" to continue to implement it. Someone will say, someone will say that the Croats or that Zagreb is not responsible for the death of Croats in BiH. But I'll tell you responsibly that it is. I will be responsible for telling you that Zagreb should interfere with Bosnia and Herzegovina's policy, but not this way. Serbia was to interfere with politics in Croatia. It should have influenced the Bosnian Serbs, or Croatian Serbs, but not in a way to force them to rebel, but to force them to accept the Z4 peace agreement to put down weapons as they were in Eastern Slavonia to be peacefully re-integrated to live in Croatia as their country. Today, the landscape wouldn't be empty. Unfortunately, however, Serbian politics did not seek the well-being of Serbs in Croatia, but sought the idea that all Serbs live in one country, and without moving Serbs from Croatia, it was not possible and that is why Belgrade, or Milosevic, pushed those people into rebellion. And in the end, when they lost everything in that rebellion, Milosevic told the contemporary leader of those Krajina Serbs in Croatia when he asked him what to do, he told him - kill himself. That's what he told him. That was his advice to him. And what happened? Look at Sarajevo what happened. Shame and horror. There, after Dayton, Serbian leaders actually gave a directive to all Serbs to move out of Sarajevo, an exodus of 150 thousand Sarajevo Serbs that occurred after the war. Isn't that the ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Sarajevo? And all with a parole that all Serbs live in one country. Unfortunately, all Croats live in one country, although they have never said it, were probably not foreign to Franji Tudjman, and I am saying this because it is obvious that Croats from Bosnia Posavina were sacrificed or exchanged for the Krajina Serbs. Serbs from Krajina van, Croats from Bosnia Posavina van and here are the Croats in Croatia, Serbs in Republika Srpska. It was a policy that was conducted. But what is crucial I will never forget the moment I went to Krusevo near Mostar for the anniversary of the assassination of Blaž Kraljević, an assassination that was not killed by Bosniaks or Serbs, was killed by Croats. And to this day, his comrades and contemporaries claim that the then political leadership of HDZ was behind the murder. That it's a political murder is clear from one key detail. The difference between political killings and all others is that political killings are never made clear to the end and never are found by their guilty, or by their employers. Why? Because it's the employers who are in power. The same way Blaž Kraljević was killed, Ante Paradjik was killed. You all know that. Neither Antu Paradjika was killed by Serbs nor Bosniaks. What we have in Croatia is one junta, one anti-national government that is doing everything to destroy the Croatian people in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. HDZ says the Croatian entity would help the Croats. Oh, yeah? Well, here you are, in Croatia we have a Croatian state. How do you help the Croats? What is the result of HDZ rule in Croatia? You have absolute authority, all to say, the centers of power you've taken that you could, you've installed your earrings in them. So what? Croatia is failing, Croatia is failing, Croatians are running away from it. This is the result of the HDZ government in Croatia. This is the result of the Croatian authorities for Croats. She's your parole that Croats choose the Croatian representative in BiH you know what that reminds me of? So at the parallel of the Japanese Emperor Hirohito who spoke – Asia to the Asians or Asians as already, but actually thought Asia to the Japanese. We want to occupy the whole of Asia, it was a parole. Manchurium, Indokino, where not everything. In this way, with the same password that Croats are choosing their president, the HDZ actually wants Hadezevic Dragan Covic to be a member of the BiH presidency. And what has this man done for the Croatian people since he was there? What happens to the Croatian people? Is it possible that while the Croatian people are disappearing from Bosnia and Herzegovina, he is building a villa or his family, a hacienda that would not be embarrassed even by drug lords in Colombia, are you not ashamed? That for one square of his villa you're more prepared to move your own people and ruin it. Is it possible, Mr. Brkic, to change [[Invader Brkić: A colleague of Pernar...]] The stream of the river to pass by one man and that he... [[Invader Brkić: A colleague of Pernar...]] You won't shut me up, Mr. Brkic... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Upadica Brkić: colleague Pernar.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121614	/Upadica Brkić: I give you a reminder based on the article.../ 239, please. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Based on Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words, please return to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121616	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121617	Dear Mr. Pernar, on the basis of Article 241 I give you a strict measure of distance from the session to the end of this day and set a break of up to 14 hours and until then I ask the Assembly's watch to show Mr. Pernar the exit door from the assembly. Thank you very much. It's 1:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you to take your seats, continue the work of the plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.05 HOURS]] Before continuing, we have one request from the respected representative Arsen Buk, who called for an article. 233. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to be granted the basis of this article an extension of the time for individual debate under the item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the position of the Croatian people in BIH for 15 minutes, based on Article. 233. The Croatian Parliament decides on the extension of the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure both for the debate on behalf of the Club and for individual debates, so here I am voting for, who is in favour, to allow Mr Arsen Bauk to extend the time for individual debate from 10 to 15 minutes? Against? Thanks to most votes, the application is not supported. Please pass it on to the Proposer. We're moving on to further work, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, are you staying from the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, is not present. Okay, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Bernardic - Klisovic will share the debate, please welcome fellow Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121619	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today is the time to open and reasoned discussion of the status of Croats in the BiH and I will present some facts. The Dayton Agreement has secured peace after the war, but now it is necessary to upgrade a political system that can guarantee what is our goal, more functional and fairer BIH within the existing border. And the SDP will support all efforts that are in the wake of the preservation of the single BIH, as a community of 3 equal nations, in which they are in everything equal. Because on these grounds alone, BIH can be a prosperous country. But first of all, it has to be the policy challenge in the BIH, as I see it. And for Croatia, the key question will be how will provide Croatians with the full equality guaranteed by the Constitution and that is what our question and our goal is. But we need to warn you of some more facts, the fact is also that three former high representatives of the international community in BIH, Schwarz Schilling, Bild,... In a letter recently sent to the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and Security, Federichi Mogerini, attacked the official Zagreb, accusing it of interfering with the internal affairs of the BIH, and misrepresenting Croatia as well as the world public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then that's what we're getting ourselves into. As for the election of a Croatian member of the presidency, however, it is a fact that he was elected in accordance with the provisions of the same law, which was valid as in the elections, where Dragan Covic was elected twice and I don't remember anyone protesting at that time. Probably not even today's declaration of the position of Croats in BIH, it would not be in the Croatian Parliament if the same Dragan Covic of HDZ had been elected as a member of the presidency so much about your care for the Croats in BIH. The main concern is that the care of the Croats living in our neighbouring and friendly state is the concern of the interests of one single party, HDZ, Croats in the BIH, and HDZ are not true. HDZBiH is not the only political option that articulates the vote of Croats in the BiH. What's been cut, gentlemen, is that you're hiding behind alleged concerns, and in fact your goal is something else, your goal is to vote Croats in the BiH. And we, unlike you, are not looking for the votes of Croats in the BIH, our goal is to improve the lives of people and to sincerely help the BIH on its European path. Before the end, the protection of Croats and the protection of their interests in the BIH yes, but certainly not in this way, in principle the feuds prevail. Because of your destructive policies, the BIH has left over 400 thousand Croats, there has been an exodus, and just please don't help them again so they don't get into any more trouble and trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121620	Thank you, dear colleague Bernardic, for continuing the debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to point out clearly and aloud on behalf of the SDP Club, the SDP is not satisfied with the position of Croats in the BIH, particularly with regard to their equality in the context of the declared equality and the 3 constituent peoples. This inequality is reflected in the legal framework and, consequently, in real life. It's an unsustainable state, and it needs to be changed. Second. The SDPs are asked to play a constructive role in this context both in bilateral relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina based on mutual respect and non-interference in internal affairs and in working with international partners and allies who care about sustainable and functional Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as regional stability and security in Southeast Europe. And a third. The policy is SDP, I hope the Republic of Croatia respects the full sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We condemn all policies and activities that led or could lead to the disintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the violent end of its internal political and constitutional arrangement both through BiH institutions and outside the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Anything I say today on behalf of the SDP Club should be viewed exclusively through these three points that I have listed to you. The SDP has submitted amendments to the Declaration and only when we see how the ruling coalition will treat them will we decide how we vote. The declaration refers to the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But one could refer to all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. That'd be a lot cleaner. Through such a declaration, we could see what activities the Republic of Croatia can take to improve their position in their country of residence. Some of them even deny their Croatian identity in us neighbouring countries that are not Bosnia and Herzegovina. The ruling party believes it should only be done for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore today we have this Declaration before us, which is proposed by a representative from the list of diaspora origins from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Proposer of the Declaration also listed the address of this Declaration. He said it was Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If these are Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I hope they know the Croatian position and position of Croatian political parties. As for the SDP, I said, we are not satisfied with their position in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we believe that it must change. And in that sense, we will give them of course support and by our actions. The Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina remember that the SDP never left them hanging and when it burned, when it was a risk of violence, then the Croatian prime minister and SDP president went to Mostar and acted to stop the violence. If the addressee is Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we would like to tell Bosnia and Herzegovina that we want to build good neighbourly relations without interference in the internal affairs of one or another country, but that each democratic state rests on the equality of its citizens and its peoples and that is why it is important. If we refer to Bosniaks and Serbs as constituent peoples, then we want to tell them in front of the SDP, accept the hand of the Bosnian-Herzegovian Croats and jointly agree on reforms with which you will all be satisfied, because it is your only way to really work in a way where you will be happy with each other and third as well as other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it is addressed to the international community, we want to tell the SDPs will never support unilateral politics in Croatia to realise its special interests through interference in neighbouring countries' internal affairs or internal political processes. We will condemn any attempt to micromanagerise political processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Zagreb and we will not be part of such processes. The SDP believes that the declaration ahead of us is not a way to improve the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The declaration will not boost changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It will not constructively draw the international community's attention to the problem of the equality of Croats in BiH for us too. It will neither encourage the European Union nor the United States to pursue stronger activity on this issue. It could encounter their disapproval, the disapproval of Croatia's key allies and partners in the international community who are perceiving Croatia's position and activities more and more as an attempt to unilaterally promote their own interests in BiH and less as a concern for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which consequently reduces Croatia's credibility when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the international community with our partners. Furthermore, if this Declaration is adopted, it will not adopt a consensus that points to differences in policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily in terms of the way and instruments of leadership and policy for parliamentary parties in this House. Its greatest value is the consensus of parliamentary parties. According to the debate we witnessed this morning, the consensus, unfortunately, was not reached. This Declaration could tighten relations with key political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina that depend on changes both national and supranational, and I mean us political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the constituent peoples. Such a situation will not make the situation easier for Croats, but will make it difficult for them. It could also additionally burden bilateral relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will also not help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and could also cause Croatian neighbours to do something similar to Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. So where should the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia be concentrated to lead to concrete results in terms of improving the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Have we even clearly defined our foreign policy objectives towards Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are these perhaps good bilateral relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is it developed economic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are these the institutional and practical equality of Croats in BiH without interference in political processes and decisions in line with the principle of non-interference in neighbouring country's internal affairs? Is it BiH's integration into NATO and the European Union? Is this the sustainability and functionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability, the security of BiH so as not to endanger Croatia's national security. If these are the goals of the Croatian foreign policy, why haven't we achieved them so far? Could it have been the wrong approach? An approach that was often present in Croatia's foreign policy, especially when the HDZ is in power, a confrontational approach. A confrontational approach towards key political forces in BiH, towards BiH and sometimes to international partners. It was important to be sassy, to tell what our truth is, what it is and how it is. It is not the most important, the most important thing is to be wise and it means to navigate, to find ways to achieve your interests. And I repeat once again what has already been heard from this pay phone, a policy towards BiH, cannot be party policymaking, a party policy aimed at ensuring the maintenance of the HDZ authorities of BiH. This has to be state policy. BiH's HDZ is not the only one to articulate the interests and political views of Croats in BiH and cannot be equated with Croats in BiH. Therefore, our policy must focus on international partners who, together with us, can create a political climate for reforms in BiH that would include both the legal and real equality of Croats in BiH. This should clearly define what key elements of equality are and explain why and how they fit well in the long-term sustainability and functionality of BiH and are consistent with the interests of all BiH citizens. The role of powers and the way of choosing the House of the People of the Federation of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, most importantly, and if not the only element of equality, three constitutional and protection of their legitimate interests. So, in conclusion, without clearly defined goals for the foreign policy of the Republic of BiH, including elements on which the equality of the constituent people and the citizens of BiH rests, we will continue as a hamster in the cage to turn the same wheel in a frenzy, always empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121622	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic and dear colleague Bernardic for this debate. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121623	Gentlemen and colleagues, ladies. My colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. So I honestly didn't think I'd have to go out here for a pay phone after your discussions because I counted on sharing that awareness of national state responsibility when it comes to the Croatian people in BiH. So, the easiest way to say is to support the equality of the Croatian people of BiH, territorial integrity and sovereignty of BiH, etc., etc. However, 20 years and over, 23 years after Dayton passed, Dayton was changed to the harm of the Croatian people but also to the harm of BiH, 2002, when the SDP government was here in the Banski dvor and President Mesic at Pantovack, these changes that allowed the entire chain of events... A Croat that happened later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one reacted. Today, Croats in BiH have been brought to the brink of the loss of political subjectivity and disappearance. Today we are in danger of losing as the people of BiH, not as the Croats from BiH, our... 500 000, we solve our problem as easily as possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Croatia is losing in the long run. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With these processes, and even these elections in BiH, this is a difficult slap on Croatia, this actually leads to an inferior position in Southeast Europe. Croatia, if it will not be a factor in Southeast Europe, is in fact a marginal country for co-workers of both the EU and NATO. It is not important for the EU or for NATO or for the world community with the problem of Korea, Pakistan and Afghanistan, etc. It's important to say another thing, Mr. Bernardich. We're not fighting anyone here for votes,... On the HDZ list, we don't decide who's going to be the majority here, who's going to rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, it doesn't work... about a stranger, about a man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the policy, Mr. Ilija Cvitanović, so the president of the HDZ in 1990, they went to this election, I'm not a member of any party to tell you now. So they went separately, into two opposing blocs, today the Croatian National Assembly has made a unique decision and we are absolutely standing together in the representative of Croatia's legitimate interests in BiH. And we won't tighten relations with BiH, do you think this declaration will irritate for example. Serbs in the Serb republic? He won't. Will this declaration irritate the Croats in BiH? He won't. Maybe a couple of them in Sarajevo who live. Who can only be irritated by those who have been working hard for 18 years to deconstitute Croats in BiH. So what's the problem with sending the Croat team? So these political elite messages that Croatia is actually behind its obligations both with regard to Dayton and with regard to the position of the Croatian people in BiH. I still want to believe, and I believed it yesterday after the meeting that we had at the HDZ Club, that we will come up with a formulation of this declaration that will be supported in this House because I agree with you, it will be a bad message if this declaration is supported only by HDZ but let no one, we who are downstairs, will fight, so we will stay at the slogan “We ourselves” if it is necessary but RH therefore I know that we will do so more easily and we have no one else to address except the Republic. This is where everyone interferes,... The joint assembly of Bakir Izetbegovic party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Saudi Arabia has its own paradigm in the BiH. Alessian funds are building there, Qatar has its TV set in Sarajevo, no one interferes. Only Croatia will interfere if it points to damage to the Constitution nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121624	Thanks to dear colleague Bozi Ljubic, we have several replicas, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121625	You say it's easy to say, we support the sovereignty of the BiH, it's not easy for you to say, because in reality you don't support it. Because you encourage Croatia's involvement in the domestic affairs of another country. You say in 2002 when Racan was in Banski dvori and Mesic at Pantovack, he didn't react, you know why? Because both Racan and Mesic respected the sovereignty of the other state. There is a huge difference between HDZ and people who were then in the Ban Courts and Pantovac, so it was not a mistake, that they did not react, but it was an expression of a systematic fair policy and respect for the other country. You say who he can irritate, so already three former representatives of the international community in BIH have told you to irritate them, irritate the international community, if anyone else irritates me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121626	Thank you, Mr. Trailer. I would ask all respected colleagues and colleagues to consider their words, so that this debate on this noble intention of declaration would not be more unnecessarily than to assist the Croatian people in the BIH. We have a reply to the replica of dear colleague Bozo Ljubic here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121627	Mr. Track, you're talking to me about not pawning the sovereignty of the BiH. I was the head of the biggest war surgery in Sarajevo in '92. Mr. Mover of the Year in the War, the head of that surgery. For two years, as Minister of War of Health of the Republic of the Federation, I entered Sarajevo as a commando without light down the mountain... and passed under the tunnel of the Sarajevo runway over 40 times, through the runway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While some major Bosnian patriots were hiding in the National Bank vault and in the BISH presidency basement. I am therefore, fighting for the BIH and exposed to the deaths and today I fight, it is my homeland, it is my homeland that is my country and all we do is make that state acceptable to both my people and to all the peoples and to all the citizens of BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121628	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic, next replica of my esteemed colleague, Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121629	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, so Mr Ljubic, so don't you think the decisions of the High Representatives, the amendments, the BiH legislation, the consequences of SDP policy or the behaviour of the SDP government? So they didn't cook in the trumpet when we were in power, they cooked long before that, when we weren't in power, and who was? HDZ Croatian in Croatia, HDZ BIH in BIH. So the SDP did not accept those solutions to the Dayton Agreement, which you yourself say are in question and violate the equality of Croats in the BiH. We didn't do it, but we went to Mostar, the president of the SDP went away, when it was burning, when it was meant to stop the possible escalation of further violence and you're aware of it, and therefore we will never leave the Croats in the BIH to a standstill, regardless of what others have imputed us and their mistakes and sin have transferred this to us. Well, it's not a consensus investment if you want to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121630	Thank you, answer, colleague Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121631	My colleague Klisovic had a hard time saying that. However, in 2001, the HDZ was not in the BBC in power, in the BiH, because it was the time when Barry changed election rules and when the government was so-called. Alliance and without Croatian electoral legitimacy. In 2002, no, neither Racan nor Mesic, they did not bring these amendments, but Croatia kept silent at the time, but these amendments, therefore, changed from the basis of the Dayton structure of the BIH. So these amendments have actually annulled those consolidation constitutional legal arrangements that have made it impossible for Croats to represent legitimately, which is the problem. So Croatia was obliged as a signator of Dayton to react to the violation of Dayton, which is what I'm talking about, not responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121632	I thank my dear colleague Ljubic for his reply, the next replica of my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As important as this topic is for the SDP, I think it proves that the SDP Club has discussed this on two occasions. I can ask myself rhetorically how many clubs in this assembly did it, because from the debate on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, it seems that the HDZ Club doesn't have a single view of it either. So, so much for an investment in consensus. The other thing that we suggested and which I think would be good if we had made further consultations and avoided where they were... The one here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because I'm wondering if this is actually a real platform for a debate like this. Is this a parliament that can, of course, discuss foreign policy or is a government and president, and I remind you that it is a signator of Washington's Dayton Agreement and, in accordance with the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, also has some obligations towards Croats. So, I think we could have avoided it all if there was more hearing on your part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121634	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic, for his response to Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121635	My colleague Hajdukovic would say that the suggestions from your replica are very different. However, I would like to say that this declaration has been an official optic here in parliament since 10 June of this year, and I have persistently called on both your representatives and your colleagues sitting there and through colleagues who do not sit here to sit down and discuss the matter. It wasn't a response, it wasn't my fault. So, on the other hand, today and still have time to sit down and talk, however, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the declaration is a document in which the Croatian Parliament is expressing views on certain internal and foreign policy issues, it is clear who is implementing and who is creating foreign policy, however, if the government, which is therefore burdened by this Declaration by a new task on its back if it accepts that this burden and accepts it, therefore, I do not see any problems why the Parliament would have any reservations with this Declaration. And as far as I could understand from talking to your competent foreign policy colleagues in the text and the Declaration has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121636	I thank my colleague Ljubi for his answer. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121637	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with you that this Declaration is not and does not express the HDZ's position and that this debate is actually not as good as it is, as my colleague Bernardic did to encourage these attitudes. I think that on this issue, really all of us should really ask ourselves about today's situation in BiH that they are really threatened by their human and political right to be represented and that we as a Croatian state should help them to correct this injustice towards them as soon as possible as possible. If we bring this down today to whose interest it is, the SDP, HDZ or any other political options in this House, I don't think we've done anything. This should be the interest of all of us in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121638	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. The answer of my colleague Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121639	So I believe here's how at the end of the day we're going to say and get to such a position because really presenting the document itself and the very content of the document and the whole way we came to it I'm going to remind you, so that text that for some here was actually full of text and this is supposed to be bare, etc. And... accepted by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, including representatives of the SDP. [[You don't understand.]] So this text that we now have here was also a representative of the SDP there, the truth is that he said to say so positively abstentioned. Therefore, I would like us to stay that way, to sit down tomorrow that if you have any amendments or amendments to seriously consider them because it would be very important for Croatia to adopt this document with maximum consensus. Not everyone will vote, because we heard some debates today that certainly indicate that even their support would be questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121640	I thank my esteemed colleague Ljubic. We're moving on to debates on behalf of clubs. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the government and the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate just in the phase I was listening to, it's mostly 80% tired me so much that I have a problem with structuring thinks it's as systematic as it is. Because it is a classic misunderstanding of both the historical and political moments in which we are located and where the Croats are located in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We were mainly discussing today what the situation of Croats is and that it is unequal to the other two peoples, to Bosniaks and Serbs, it is true. However, the sad truth is I, too, and I see this whole debate as an expression of one Declaration and a manifestation of political grief, and no one took into account that Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs still associate something and something common to them even though they would not want it. According to statistics and Croats, both Serbs and Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina are disappearing. First of all, the Croats will disappear. We, with all our political forces, knowledge, experience and opportunities to project a positive civil, political future should stand up to it. Today there are Croats in Vojvodina below 3%. We don't write declarations about them because in terms of numbers and numbers, they're insignificant, unfortunately. They should be written about the same declaration. In Boka and Kotorska i.e. Montenegro, there are Croats who have 1%. Last year, I held a break warning that there was an abduction of Croatian culture and heritage in Boka Kotorska. This is what we must face that every declaration and today's declaration is a politically responsible word that needs to produce politically responsible action. How aware we are that this political word today should produce a politically responsible action that will take into account the reality of the present moment and the one we are going towards. Indeed now that the Croatian people are unique in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is also a reality when we think about what the Croats are in Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider and always have before our eyes the reality of the border between the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia is the border. We should always raise that border almost to the level of religious holiness. When we think about the position of Croats, then we think about the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a country that has its sovereignty. Croatia has its sovereignty and has an obligation to care and take care of the Croats and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro, and in Vojvodina whoever they vote for. What doesn't correspond to me in the text of this Declaration is that almost the Croatian people in this debate are reduced to something that democracy will experience exclusively through ethnocratism and partyocracy, or by one nation being directed towards one party and by choosing the representatives of the party. We saw that in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when the Croats represented legitimately and legitimately elected representatives that it was easier to change the flow of the river than to change the course of democratic processes with this reality, we should face it, that we will act more easily as a demijour who will perform the procedure in geography than those responsible politicians who will produce such political action that Croats will be an equal, constitutive people who will live in a civil country. Who will understand that belonging to his people is a wealth, that it is manifested through politics to manifest itself in everyday life, and that this dialectic and communication between democracy is not played in a way that democracy communicates with some people rather than communicate with a citizen and every member because let us bear in mind that there are many Croats who even take away Croatianism. One of them is, for example, Franciscan Drago Bojic. He has a slightly different view of politics and he has the right to express such views on politics, is it a policy that understands that a citizen is wider than a party, that personal and civil freedoms are wider than party freedoms and that they are historically more significant? Drago Bojic warns, Ivan Sarcevic, another Franciscan, that Bosnia must not become a country in which conflicted, collectively conflicted nationalisms act. Politics, party policies, political actions and reflections are not in the function of deforestation and the creation of insurmountable nationalism in which there will be no possible communication between the nations and in which it will not be possible for a member of a people without any complex to realize that he is a citizen of the world and that he is a citizen of Europe. We are in Croatia. The European path will allow the BiH citizens to also become citizens of Europe. That's what we have to strive for. It is clear that we must not deny the present reality in which the Croats are and that the Croats should be helped and that 80% of the text of this Declaration is the text of this Declaration I welcome it. I do not greet him exclusively in the direction in which on one pseudo-level, the fact that the representative of the Croats can only be the Croat we observe, according to the extent we have determined. To be a member of that party, to be a member of that historical context to be a member of that standard and to be a member of that historical vision. All Croats in the BIH are Croats covered by this Declaration. If there are Croats who are thinking about their Croatia in a way that they are citizens of Europe, that they are citizens of the world to have a problem with this Declaration then we should have a problem with this Declaration and we should direct it and make it so that it is not problematic to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And not to be the one who will intimidate us into situations and positions to be those that will lead to the political and biological death of the Croatian people in the BIH and that before that, our political death, or the death of our political mind, will take place that is unable to come out of burial in some of the historical structures and historical continuitys that we were involved in. It is clear to me from the debate so far that this Declaration is being defended and many personal history. And that many personal history and many personal benefits were acquired in the BIH and that this declaration should now be almost biblical character to justify and raise to the level of holiness many personal history. It is not this Declaration that should be the one to counter the extinction and inequality of Croats in the BiH. It is clear that it is not legitimate, legal, that members of another nation choose a political representative for another people. If anyone thinks it is legal and legitimate in this case is legal but it is not legitimate then I suggest that in the BIH we make one experiment at least a thought experiment and imagine what it would be like for Bosniaks to choose a citizen Croat, that Croats choose a citizen Serb and that a Serb chooses a citizen Bosniak as its representative. I believe it would produce a lot of dissatisfaction but knowing the mentality of the Balkan people who are unable to overcome their own positions so that many feel satisfied and satisfied even if others are dissatisfied. This Declaration and the way we will consider and the position of Croats in the BIH and if this will be the starting point for us to observe the position of Croats in all countries and in all countries, then it should certainly be welcomed. If she is not, if she closes only in one Corps particularly party, explicit or implicitly contained in the Declaration, then this Declaration is nothing but an premature yet certain epitaph to the Croats in BIH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121642	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetic. On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121643	Thank you, Vice President. I must say that we are not satisfied with the position of Croats in the BIH, but also that we must stress that both Croats in Serbia-Montenegro and other countries are in the environment. And more than once today, there is a dilemma here whether it is good to discuss today the Declaration of the State and Position of the Croats in the BIH or not. We say that, it is good to talk only had to be done long before, because we have heard more than once that all governments have failed to react so far heard that all governments have so far failed to react when the amendments have changed the Dayton Agreement and that is the source of the biggest part of the problem of the Croats in BiH. And yes, we must, first of all, take care of the Republic of Croatia here, about the taxpayers and the quality of life of our citizens, but we also have a constitutional obligation to take care of Croats outside the country, and that is why we are here to discuss the Declaration and therefore we are asking why the promoter has not been put into the process before in the debate in HS. It has already been said here that three months before the BiH elections were held in the process. Why hasn't the debate been held before the elections were held? Maybe we'll change something, maybe we'll achieve something, and so now we can say that this is convenient, before Christmas, we'll come, we'll give some new hope to the Croats in BiH. They should be given hope, but if we give them real hope, they'll give this Declaration something important and fast change. We are aware that this does not go so quickly and that it should be realistic in this and that, apart from this Declaration, we must show, as the minister said, the commitment to the Croatian people in BiH with concrete measures and activities. A constitutional ruling has been mentioned several times when, here, it is said, an unconstitutional amendment to the Dayton Agreement amendments, in this verdict in the Ljubic case, and I want to point out once again that it is necessary to find models to solve this because it is not a matter of the HDZ, nor the SDP, nor the HSS, but it is a matter of preserving the national corpus of Croats in BiH because this is one, as they say, the schizophrenic situation which the Croats have forced or moved out of BiH or that they try to unite around one political option and preserve their right, their status, however, we see that since over 400,000 from BiH has emigrated them, it is no longer possible in this way that we must seek out other models how to get their rights and to develop and pluralism there. The verdict clearly states that the House of Nations is not the House of Canton, and that constitutional representation of the people is something to be carried out at all administrative political levels. In the current situation, this is not because the election law allows the majority of Bosniak cantons in the Federation of BiH's House of Peoples to elect delegates who, for the purposes of electoral engineering, become Croats. The example of such absurdity is also the Bosnian Podravin County or canton, which has only 23 inhabitants of the Croats, and which are selected by 23 delegates in the House, while, for example, the Western Herzegovina County, where there are over 100,000 Croats, chooses only two delegates. It is simply unsustainable, and it is divided into 17 delegates of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats are manipulated by just one engineering. And there is often a view that it is necessary to advocate the legitimate representation of all three peoples, that all three peoples, but only the Croatian people are at risk in this current situation because they do not exercise their electoral rights and choose their own representative in BiH's bodies. It is often heard from Bosniak media that the electoral commission should apply the 91st census, it is simply not good because the situation has been drastically changed, we have heard over 400,000 emigrated Croats from BiH and it serves only for political engineering and quota manipulation, Croatian and Serbian quotas. The fact that such an electoral system will not help the return of Croats to BiH more importantly because it certainly is not good that many of them have not returned to Tuzlan canton, to Bosnia and Herzegovina, or to Unsko Sanski, but also to Bosnia and Herzegovina, where over 150 000 Croats have moved out and will certainly not help if they have one, two or three Croatian delegates, but also have to adhere more seriously to this amended choice of law, but also to resolve other issues, from economic, jobs, representations in state bodies, and thus allow jobs to have people living out of what they live there and not only have election rights. For this situation in Bosnia by the people of BiH, the Croats are guilty, here are all the governments that have not responded when the amendments have changed the Dayton Agreement and surely it is not good to keep quiet. They say HDZ in the Republic of Croatia and then the ruling ones dealt with the problems of the Republic of Croatia, which is fine, but they should have done something more to stop the amendment of the Dayton Agreement, not to produce the Sanader, INA, etc. And I'm saying, because they were dealing with themselves, they weren't taking care of the Croats in BiH. And also, according to them, the HDZ in Bosnia is also to blame because on this issue it has often given up on the principle it now advocates. Mr. Covic and others have often said that they will not run unless the election law is amended, and yet they have run for the chair and failed the people who have supported them for the last two cycles, and they say for no reason because nothing has been done by what they have promised people and they usually say it was only flossules. I was quoting what I got from those people. And of course our position, the Republic of Croatia needs to help the Croats in BiH, but not conveniently, as they are now ruling. One more detail I would like to point out in particular, and that is, here is the collaboration of Croats with so-called. Republika Srpska, with Mr. Dodig, seemed to have forgotten the Homeland War, that from Bosnia Posavina from the so-called Republika Srpska, the largest part of the grenade came to both Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška, as well as to Eastern Slavonia. That a class of children died in Slavonski Brod and that no problems with war crimes, destroyed property were solved, and the fact that very few Croats returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some shifts have been made with the establishment of a central office for Croats outside the country. But it should be said with respect that the church, the Franciscans and the Bishop of the Mosquitos did the most, and thank them very much. However, this is far too little to make Croatia's return to those areas more serious. The restoration of houses and property and the return of their property into their property, which we see going too slowly, even less motivated them to return to those areas. It should also be said that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina helped us in the Homeland War and that we helped them and that we received them after being expelled from their homes in Slavonia and beyond. And what adorned us at that time was one unity in the Homeland War and what adorned them was what surprised the local population like 20, 50, it's no problem to get together to rebuild, to build a house for each other to help each other. We need one such approach now in politics when it comes to Croatians in Croatia, as well as Croatians outside Croatia, and I think we certainly need one such approach and therefore the HSS advocates. What I would like to point out further is that next year, where Bosnia and Herzegovina should get a more significant faster step towards joining the European Union. And there's now the role of us, the policies of our government and our ministries to make ourselves better and better. And it is not enough just this Declaration, but, as I said, it should be the basis and task of the government and the resolution ministries to make concrete measures and activities with deadlines when it will be done and to implement that it will not happen again a year before no meeting is held, that no action can be launched and that we say again we have not helped the Croats, the issue of the Croats' problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been resolved. This is what was left in this Declaration, and I hope after that, after this adoption of this Declaration, that a concrete plan and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will follow with concrete measures and activities to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we don't do it, then we won't have this debate today. Because we have a problem in our country of emigration, that our young people are leaving, that they have no confidence in this home or in the government, because they simply don't see the future of having a better life. It is an opportunity to change these policies both economically and externally-politically and to be more concrete in the realisation of them, it is an opportunity to address the issue of unresolved borders, the issue of Schengen, the issue of migrant crises, but surely through one economic co-operation, through the transport link to strengthen Croatia's position, and then we will also have a better economic opportunity to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because it is unthinkable for us in Slavonia to hitchhike or slowly go to the construction of corridor 5C while the Dodik we are now working with is building the road towards Bijeljina, towards Belgrade. Of course, he is interested in both the highways and the road to Zagreb, and now we react immediately and give a change to the spatial plan, a new bridge near Stara Gradiška. If that is the case when we make concessions, then we must be stronger in positioning the policies and interests of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, it is already said that we from the HSS are also committed to installing such declarations both policies and measures and activities for Croatians, both in Vojvodina, in Montenegro and in all countries where there are Croats. Because there are few of us. We must be unique and have those policies that create a better life for all Croatians in Croatia, but also outside the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121644	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121645	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a full-day practical debate about the Declaration. On the one hand, however, we have heard some of the views that we are unilaterally interfering with other countries' relations that this is not good, and on the other hand we are bonds of peace agreements. It's not the guarantees, it's the bonds. The guarantees are America, Germany. We also have constitutional provisions, the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, where Article 2 states that the Croatians are also members of Croatia's sovereign and constitutive Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's not like it's all... We also have an obligation to be sure when we talk about the stability and security of the region, but above all when we talk about the position of the constituent people in our Constitution and in the law. [[You don't understand.]] The aforementioned Declaration has I mean absolutely some things you'd like to point out that are extremely good. First of all, when we talk about point 6 which clearly highlights the goal of improving the position of Croats in BiH with concrete measures and support for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the road to Euro-Atlantic integration, so above all, the European Union and NATO. Other items I don't think need to be listed. First of all, places where it was voted, for which candidate and that is now the worst issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because if a Croatian representative had not now been elected who does not have the legitimacy of the Croatian people if it had happened as it was, there might not be so many calls, and the problem would still remain the same. And generally, with this Declaration, we're not gonna solve any problem. At one symbolic level as such, we have no dispute. Absolutely, and I think everyone here has said that they want to improve the status and BiH in the region and the Croatian people in the BIH. What is sad for the Croats in the BIH, for their long-term survival is absolutely at stake, and also for theirs to say more existential survival, the sad thing is that Croatia would do here with its entry into the EU, where they got an open door to the European labour market and there are a lot of them looking for their happiness, their job, their future. Unfortunately, it became a cruel brutal reality there. And we think it's absolutely important to redefine relationships, that no unilateral political actions, declarations, we won't, here, we're all aware of that. We need to show that we care, that it's our obligation, but we need to gather all those same parties that signed those pension agreements, above all Washington in '94. which created the Federations, later in Dayton, so that we all sat down at the table and arranged a way of functioning of the BIH, which is in one paradoxal part actually the most centralized countries of the world. Especially fiscally, it means when we look at their budget, the central government of the least useful budget, I don't know, is one-digitary amounts relative to the total budget, but also that's their biggest problem, because they only have four times as many ministers, officials, which is not all, even with some incomes that are bigger than in Croatia. So it certainly takes a lot to do, that this declaration as much as it is at its level and symbolic and to show that commitment, it will not solve anything in itself. And we have to put all sides at the table, we have to do, what once was the solution to the war problems of the '90s. We now need to find a solution to the long-term sustainable position of all constituent peoples in the BIH, above all in Croatia. When we talk about BIH, it's also another of the many paradoxes, it's a country of the people and as such I think it's one rare in the world, that it's not the state of its citizens, first of all when we talk about the verdict that clearly shows it with... The Finns, where certain minorities have actually been denied access to authorities, then, represent the highest authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why we want to show the same support here and from this place for solving these problems, for the sake of the European future of BIH and stabilisation, because we need friendly countries to be what we should say on EU principles, that they are developing as well, that they are more advanced and, of course, when we speak to one of the constituent peoples of the Croats in the BIH, the better, and that there is not really such emigrations that are largely present there. So in conclusion, I think this may be a start, but certainly not any end to solving any problems. And that if all the sides, but just all the sides of the sessions to make with all the guarantees of those agreements that both Washington and Dayton sat down at the table, to solve and here at that level solve the issues crucial to the BIH, because that is the place and that is the time, and that is the only way that can be solved. We can't, unfortunately here, I wish we could, but we here, with any simple decisions, acts, conclusions, anything, laws, we can't solve the problem, first of all the Croats in BIH, but what's more important to all the citizens of BIH and the functioning of that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121646	I thank my esteemed colleague Curaju, we move on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121647	Thank you very much. In the wake of 2 decades of silence from the institution of the Republic of Croatia, on one of the biggest problems of foreign policy, these are Croats in the BiH. Of course, this problem is in another country, but in a country where Croatians, on paper, unfortunately, Croatian diplomacy, which has not worked in accordance with the Constitution, and state policies have led from Croats to a mania level, national minorities in many countries have far greater rights than Croats in the BIH and of which Croatian politics cannot be washed. Not a Kamelic declaration or any other declaration. Only a declaration of common interest in the survival of people in these areas. First of all, he would welcome in this individual speech, on behalf of the Club, a colleague of Petrov, and he made four amendments, but I would like to welcome here first and foremost those who should be a pillar of policy change, those who will fight to make Croats a constituent people, not only on paper and form, and that here the foreign minister is called to the Constitution, to various declarations, international agreements, when we are aware that on the field in BIH is so. Here, amongst us, I welcome representatives, i.e. The political form of students, universities in Mostar are the pillar of change, they are the pillar of hope and they are the ones who have to stay there, they are the ones who have to think freely and not be dependent on political caste, both in Herceg Bosnia, Covic's HDZ, and political elites in the Republic of Croatia. What am I saying that for? Because of the fact that we cannot create our people, our Croatian people, I live in Dalmatia Zagora, I am leaning on part of BiH, on the Lithuanian part, on people from Herceg Bosnia, because we cannot cheat and lie to them. I repeat, a year ago there was a protest of students from Herceg Bosnia where we signed, colleague Ljubic, you signed, 20 measures, among other things, the Declaration, and in this Declaration is not what was meant to be in this Declaration. I believe that my colleague Brkic and many others... Camel Declaration, that's a fact. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We live in circumstances where we have three peoples in BiH, where the interest of the Republic of Serbia is as neighbouring countries to address the problem. And of course, Serbia has solved its problem if it has its entity, they have its own private republic, they almost have, they have solved it. What do Croats have in BiH? However, we are more concerned about how the prime minister and our foreign ministry will solve the problem of Ukraine, Crimea, than how to solve the problem in, in EU institutions, diplomatic assemblies, in diplomacy, how they will promote, how they will talk about problems in BiH, from the electoral law, to all the problems that Croats have in BiH, is that the people are only on paper constructive, in decision-making he was made. More national minorities in the Republic of Croatia currently have the rule of national minorities from HDZ, than the established people of Croats in BiH, if you can, deny me. So smaller rights have Croatian people in BiH politically than national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Why does the foreign ministry keep silent when opening Serbia's chapter, why don't we condition the problem of Croats in BiH and Serbia, why don't we condition BiH, Sarajevo politics, Sarajevo and their entry into the EU, BiH to resolve the issue of Croats in the same way as the issue of Serbs has been resolved. Why don't we use those tools? These are tools and it is our constitutional obligation, our constitutional obligation to take care of the Croats in BiH. Do we have the strength? If we have the strength to do this for Livno, if we have it for Tomislavgrad, if we have it for Grude, if we have it for Travnik, if we have it for Bugojna, where, I don't know if there are any more Croats at all. We must not show these people that they only ask for money, these people are proud, we are not Croats, they are looking for money, we must give them money, we must be damage and we must be created in public perceptions that these are people who have to make conditions, especially these young people, conditions to stay down and fight, and the Republic must provide them with the same conditions as Serbs and as Bosniaks do, that they make decisions about how they will live in BiH and how they will manage and develop economic and economic BiH. And to create addicts and show them only as people when they are used to be at the address in the Republic of Croatia, we can solve it through the laws that their rights are realised for those who defended the Republic of BiH and not only use them in local elections in certain groups, which is not a good message, these people don't deserve it, they don't deserve it, they have to be free citizens, Croats, who have both citizenship and Croatian. And that's the minimum threshold of Minister Buric, the minimum of our tools, that the Croats have in BiH what Serbs have, we have tools, I remember when the Republic of Croatia entered the EU, we had to locate, arrest, transfer, then during Sanader everything we had, documents, they didn't dequalify the documents from Homeland War, secret documents, the president's office was sent to tones to courtship, and now we have tools, now we're an EU member if we already call on the EU, why don't we get rid of it that way... What is normal, which is natural for a constituent people to be equal with other constituent peoples and formulas very simply, no less, I repeat, Croats in BiH, gentlemen from HDZ, Mr Ljubic, Mr Raguž, you are representatives, colleague Glasovic, who is not here right now, you are representatives of that people, you must fight for it, but you must also tell the people why this camel is a people in BiH, which is why this camel on the Declaration. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not enough that the HDZ Declaration, this must be the HS Declaration, that Croats have the same rights in BiH, as Serbs and as Bosniaks do, and at present they do not, first of all, elect representatives, the legitimacy of their representatives is not the choice of Croats, and these could be the political elites of Croats who represent blocking until now, do not join coalitions with the SDA, neither with the SDSS nor with any other party because you promised not to go to the elections, that you would not run if it does not happen, you did not do so. The electoral law is so complicated that nothing is known and very easily election promotion as far as Croats are concerned is done. Vote for us because someone third will be elected. But that's not enough for economic development, economic development, political development, that's enough for one political caste that manages that part. We need first of all to use the diplomatic lines that we have from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work, not to flirt with Vukic and the others around. But clearly, what the Serbs in BiH have must be done by the Croats, no less. It's when he can't do it differently because it's obvious that in 20 years he couldn't have done it differently. Do we have the strength to bring this together equally by God and by a man who is just now a question as a declaration and as our constitutional obligation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has its tools I expect that this will be used by the Croats to be equal in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121648	I thank my colleague Bull for this debate. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Professor Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of security and self-sustainability in BiH is something that is discussed both in the EU institutions and NATO and in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and is only disputed here to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament because it is supposed to interfere with domestic affairs or BiH politics. I would kind of sharpen the matter here and say that this topic is mandatory for both the Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics and that if there were no Croats in BiH. Why? Because BiH, along with Kosovo, Serbia, Macedonia, is in the belly if you want a NATO alliance that Croatia is a member of together with Montenegro and Albania and the EU. It is therefore a legitimate subject to be discussed. Here what is likely to be a consensus, however, is that the key problem is the threat of equality, or the issue of the consistency of three, three peoples. However, differences arise in some thinking that there is nothing to do or that it will only be resolved or that three constituent peoples, or BiH within themselves, should resolve it. But the fact is that there is no agreement and that it cannot come simply because today the thesis prevails with both the Bosniak people and the part, a large part of the international community, that unitary policy is the one that strengthens BiH's sustainability and security and that the federal arrangement leads to its disintegration. Such a policy has been greatly contributed by these three former presidents of the International Community who are actually now seeking an alibi for their actions because they, as they have heard, have brought about some 70 amendments to the Dayton Agreement, which operates as the Constitution of BiH and all to the detriment of the Croatian people or primarily to the harm of the Croatian people's consistency in BiH. That is why I do not think it would be irrational to ask the current representative of the International Community High Representative, or the Security Council to review these decisions or to go to the implementation of the constitutional verdict that the BiH court has to amend the electoral law because this election law in BiH has not been passed by the BiH Assembly. Therefore, it could be asked that the representative amend the law to comply with the constitutional decisions of both the BiH court and this court in The Hague. What today is an anatema to speak or advocate the principles of federalism in the Federation of BiH is a simple paradox because something called the Federation and you can't talk about the principles of this federal arrangement simply means that things are blocked and that there can't be agreed not only on the proportional representation of Croats as it is called in this Declaration, as it advocates in this Declaration but actually on parity representation in the BiH government. What the experience of BiH but also the history of successful or unsuccessful and less successful more national states teaches and obliges us to understand and accept in BiH as well as in the EU that there is no protection and promotion of individual human rights unless collective rights are previously guaranteed. The key resolutions from the UN to some others point out that collective rights, outcomes and frameworks within which regional, personal rights can also be resolved. With this in mind of time allow, I would suggest some more additions or corrections to this declaration, some minor changes if there will be an editorial which is the editorial of that text and there, it would not be delayed there, so I said, but I think that here is what I have already mentioned in this preamble, where all calls are pointed out, here should also be said that in that paragraph where the amendments of the High Representative are reminded, it should be put to respect constitutional principles and legitimate representation on a parity basis in the composition of both the Federation and BiH. On the other hand, the 6th point should add, all items begin to continue, etc., co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on joint strategic projects such as transport, road, rail infrastructure, provided that all collective and personal rights are guaranteed to Croats as a constituent people of BiH. On the other hand, I think that one point should be added which is not indicated in this declaration or not sufficiently, which is that it could be written in this way: in order to ensure regional security in Southeast Europe, the Croatian Parliament expects the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian representatives in the EU and the Council of Europe to advocate those values and legal obligations that Croatians in that national BiH will ensure security and guarantee equality." This is simply one dimension that is binding, our activity which is not only aimed at BiH but also at Euro-Atlantic associations which are members of Croatia so that with regard to these dimensions which I think the implications are contained, but if we put it in this way, it will be much more precise. Perhaps another note here in this 6th point, 1st indent, in the end to say that it stands for full respect, says the Dayton Peace Agreement only, should add the words "and the spirit of the Dayton Agreement" because there are differences and I think it should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121650	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. We have several replicas, dear colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121651	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tudjman, you have spoken of the principles of the Federation which are practically not implemented, where it is a detachment from the national federal units and, of course, leads to the unsustainable nature of such a model, we all know that the Federation is not created on its own, but is created as an expression of equal will by two national identities, two peoples of Croatia and Bosniak, and we all know all about parities which unfortunately do not respect each other. Today, we must not be afraid to point out the fact that this kind of Federation is not acceptable from the national federal components. There must be no taboo topic in Croatia and a clear emphasis that the optimal model, therefore also for the protection of Croats in BiH, would be a common country where we would have the opportunity to have three federal republics where in some way all three peoples would provide support and consistency and ensure the future of BiH as a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121652	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121653	Thank you. Mr. Škorić, you have noticed this well, so perhaps another addition to this document should be placed there at the beginning to call on the Washington Treaty and not only the Dayton Agreement, because the Washington Agreement specifically highlights this constitutionality and equality of the three peoples because the Washington Agreement was in fact an agreement that two republics under this Stoltenberg plan would enter into and build the same relations. Unfortunately, because of demographic factors and demographic relations, today we have two Bosniak policies unitary and hegemonistic, one is unitary under the slogan of civil BiH and the other is this hegemonistic under one other basis, which the majorisation device wants to push out Croats as a political entity in the Federation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121654	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tudjman, you've made it very clear that both the Washington and Dayton agreements speak of the three nations being constitutional in BiH, that so must be today. What the Constitutional Court ruled in BiH in the Electoral Law, should have been respected before the elections themselves and should have been represented to elect Croatian representatives rather than as it was done because that Croatia did not participate in BiH's assistance in these difficult times in '95. Sir, like today, all together, we must make clear this declaration how much assistance BiH needs today so that all three peoples should be constitutional because the stability and functionality of today's BiH also depends on decisions taken both in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. The aid is certainly on track to live in peace, happiness and satisfaction on the European path, without it I am sure that there will be no stability or functionality but no peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121656	Dear colleague Djakic, answer, colleague Tudjman, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121657	Thank you. That BiH, then a republic, today's country is three constituent nations, is already in the Socialist Constitution, and this should not be controversial, however, have been different policies since the 1990s, where Serbian politics have been for the rest of Yugoslavia or the accession of Yugoslavia or an independent republic, and Bosniaks have advocated from the beginning to today a unitary BiH. It is this model of federal arrangement, the three-national BiH, the key stone and the stumbling block, and unfortunately there, without the engagement of the international community, that one such solution can vary, and the solution can vary as these federal models differ, without the engagement of the international community, that we will hardly reach a stable and secure BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121658	Thank you. The next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121659	I thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman. You mentioned high-ranking representatives and you were absolutely right when you said that they are now washing hands of all their numerous failures. That is how Schwarz-Schilling, not long ago, condemned and criticised that the Republic of Croatia interfered within BiH. And he also said not long ago that he had just saved BiH in 1995 and prevented the likely genocide and it is strange that he is now standing up for Komsic, and they are one of those who are responsible that the Croatian people are not equal with the Bosniak people and the Serb people in BiH, where they are being denied the right to language, the right to media and the right to their own structures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121660	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121661	I think the time has come to ask the question of the responsibility of the policies that these international representatives have led because on the one hand they obviously did not have the consensus of the entire international community to implement such a policy, on the other hand, the international circumstances have changed greatly and I think we should examine this basis to ask the Security Council, the current representative, the high representative of the international community, to change, if otherwise, the existing electoral law by their decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121662	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121663	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, dear Professor Tudjman. In fact, my replica is on the trail of Mr Mikulić, you say that some clubs and representatives today mentioned a letter from Carl Bildt, Schilling and Paddy Ashdown, addressed to the European Vice President of the European Commission Mrs. Federica Mogherini, and now we should actually be afraid of that letter and not react to it at all. In fact, these three and many other international factors in BiH have derivated the Dayton Agreement and have done one large and irreparable damage, a damage that will long have to be corrected. And in fact, we've been listening to such directives in the past and we've seen and I think it's time to respond to such meals and such international factors in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121664	I thank my colleague Babic. Answer, dear fellow Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121665	Comrade Babic, if we talk about the statements of these representatives, these statements also oscillate. In the 90s, before Dayton, Carl Bildt told Izetbegovic himself, and that's what Izetbegovic himself wrote in his memoirs, Carl Bildt told Izetbegovic, you can have 30 authorities in 100% BiH, or 100% authorities in 30 Belt territories, but you can't have 100% authority on 100% territory. And that is one, if you will, message, dilemma, that is, what outlines the relationship between the strength and ambition of individual leaders in BiH, and it is all an expensive argument to go on valorising the work of these high representatives in the last 20 years or more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121666	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman for his reply. Before continuing, I welcome the gallery of professors and professors, students and students of Josip Slavenski High School from Čakovec. Welcome. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121667	Thank you, dear Vice President. There will be no benefit from this declaration for no one, and the damage will be numerous, perhaps inconceivable, not only for the Croats in BiH, but above all for the Republic of Croatia, which will once again be disgraced in the world for meddling in the domestic affairs of another country. Croats in BiH have survived a lot. They survived the Ottoman domination, survived Austria-Hungarian after an annexation of Bosnia, survived the I. St. War, they survived the old Yugoslavia, II. Holy shit. War, they survived II. Yugoslavia, the socialist one, where they achieved full equality with the other two peoples through the politics of brotherhood and unity, which was then an official policy, when they made interethnic marriages, when they celebrated religious holidays together, visited each other and congratulated each other. And that was actually the best modus vivendi for all three peoples in BiH. And then in the 1990s HDZ and Franjo Tudjman came and, as a consequence, the Croats in BiH are half smaller. Do you really not have the intellectual and moral sense to see how bad this policy towards BiH was? How devastating was she, first of all, for the Croats there? Don't you, don't you see how wrong it was to set up Herceg Bosnia, as a fixation of the ideas of Franjo Tudjman on the restoration of the Banovina of Croatia, the establishment of the HVO, the sending of the Croatian army to BiH, the war of meaningless, idiotic war with Bosniaks, camps established there, the destruction of the bridge bridge, crimes, above all in Ahmić, where the youngest victim was 3 months old, and his executioner of that child Dari Kordić today in the Republic of Croatia embraces and lovers of the Catholic Church. Croatian representatives have been convicted at the International Court of The Hague as bloody war criminals, and that verdict will enter history and history textbooks and will not be expelled from there by any of your Declarations. And this Declaration won't do anyone any good. Does the Republic of Croatia help the Croats in BiH? It helps, primarily financially and it is good, it is noble to help others even though Croatians from the Republic leave because they have no living conditions. Do the Croats return it to us somehow, thanks to some kind of, well, here, they gave us Glasnović back, thank them for that, too? I just said that the Croats chose Glasnović and sent him to this HS [[Adversity Vice President: Dear fellow Stazic, I ask you, during your debate, do not disdain any of HS representatives]] They say this declaration, no, it's no use to a camel, it won't be any use. [[/The Vice President's intrusion: we understand what we've said.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Occupy Vice President: Here you go, continue]] This is an eclectic interference in the domestic affairs of another country, the EU's 3 Commissioners, Schwarz-Schilling, Paddy Ashdown, Karl Bild, whom Prime Minister Plenkovic has smittenly called three pensioners, forgetting that each of them has an influence in the International Community and a reputation that Plenkovic does not have, neither will he ever have, nor will he now as an active prime minister, nor when he is retired. What the three commissioners say is that this is also seen in recent attempts by the Croatian government's representatives to challenge the legitimacy of the election of Zeljko Komsic as a Croatian member of the BiH presidency. So before this Declaration, it entered, imagine, and into this Declaration because it is said, determining that the Croatian member of the BiH presidency was elected for the third time by the majority of the Bosniak people's votes. Minister, what would you say is that a foreign country is written in parliament that you are, for example, a foreign country. set to its function illegally or that anyone here has been elected illegally and that the Republic of Croatia needs to change its electoral regulations. So would you consider that to be a meddling in our country's internal affairs? I would, obviously not, have no courage. The key importance of the amendment, therefore, of the BiH electoral law, is sought, and then, please, the funniest thing comes, and that is, warning that every violation of the equality of constitutional peoples is a prelude to instability and possible incentive of emigration from BiH, especially members of the Croatian people, and instead of the Parliament to worry about the fact that three buses leave the Republic of Croatia daily, so we should propose here a Declaration on the position of Croats in Ireland, that would make much more sense. So today, the Croats in Germany are more than the Croats in BiH, so let's take care of their position, so let's talk about why three buses leave the ministers daily, and ask who's responsible for it, and not get involved in other countries' affairs this equitably. This is not a concern for the Croats, it is a conflict within HDZ, between the radical right and Plenkovic, and the radical right hand is pressing Plenkovic to bring this kind of declaration, it allegedly had three variants and that first one of its variants with which the right hand could possibly be satisfied, tempered, tempered so that some call it a camel. The amendments are announced, this Declaration cannot be fixed by the Amendments, not at all. It is a mistake in itself, and such a structural error is impossible to correct any amendments, this Declaration should be rejected by ad tin and forgotten as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121668	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121669	Thank you very much. A fellow Stazić has been injured by an article. In 238, where it says that HS should not bring the Declaration, that it cannot be fixed, it mentioned bridges, that Croats are for the truth, that we do not insult the article, Croats are the most responsible for the survival of BiH. The Croatian Defence Council and the HVO, signed by Izetbegovic and Tudjman, are the most responsible for the non-genocide greater than Srebrenica, than the war criminal Ratko Mladic, who made it in the biacci enclave. Croatians thus defend the Republic of Croatia with their commitment and BiH since the great Serbian aggression. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121670	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mir Bull. I would ask you not to demean anyone in your statement and you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure if the Rules of Procedure are not harmed by anything. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121671	But this time. 33rd, which speaks of the president and vice presidents of the Parliament who lead the session. Comrade Miro Bulj has used the right to his three replicas and he can no longer replicate. But now he deliberately violates the Rules of Procedure and under the violation of the Rules of Procedure, replicating me. You've heard what he's saying. You've heard it well. You may not have been able to predict what he was going to say, but when he started speaking, it was your duty to interrupt him and give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121672	I thank my esteemed colleague Stazic for his concern. I would ask you nicely not to teach me my job... Thank you for that. I give you the notice on the basis of Article 239 because you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Your colleague, Stazic. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We have replicas, dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121673	My colleague Stazic, unfortunately I must say that the amount of ignorance, ignorance of facts and a rational relationship with the Croats in BiH is simply immeasurable in you, but on the other hand, incorrective and especially not in such short time that we have at our disposal in replicas. Here, among other things, you mentioned Banovina Croatia, so I don't know if you have any idea what Banovina Croatia means in King Alexander's dictatorship? It was the first recognition of such a political and national identity in that Yugoslavia in which you claim that from the beginning to its end, honey and milk and brotherhood and unity and the love of all three peoples are flowing. If you had any knowledge of the facts about the situation of Croats and BiH during that time, you would not be able to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121674	Thank you, dear fellow Tudjman, for the replica. Answer, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121675	And you should know that King Alexander was killed in '33. And that his dictatorships at the time were gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121676	Dear colleague Pupovac, I did not allow you to speak, you did not answer, based on article 239, I give you a warning. Here you go, colleague Bulj, I hope you won't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121677	My colleague Pupovac was injured by Article 238. I have often been prevented from speaking for this, I think it is democratic to debate, in this way part of the majority in this House is obstructing a very important issue that we are discussing, which are Croats in BiH. So I repeat, part of the parliamentary majority, colleague Pupovac is part of the parliamentary, obstructing the functioning, so that we are not guilty of opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121678	Comrade Bulj, you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder based on Article 239. Dear fellow Stazic, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121679	Comrade Tudjman, it is perfectly natural and clear to me and logical and it is good that you defend your father's actions. But he called for the reconstruction of Banovina of Croatia and therefore founded Herceg-Bosnia. Well, that's not my fault. I've listed the disastrous consequences for you. Catastrophic, which is why he was abandoned by his closest associates. Mesic, Manolic, Kljuic in Bosnia, due to his poor policies in BiH. As for brotherhood and unity, and listen, it's not my fault, but it was official politics and people lived like that. And those interconfessional marriages that were then made is that people lived together in respect, in harmony and in love, that's what bothered some in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121680	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, for his reply. Dear colleague Glasnović, please don't disturb fellow Stazic as he speaks to your incursions. We have the next line, dear colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121681	Thank you very much. Here is my dear fellow Stazic, in your speech, so full of bitterness, such as the concepts of crimes, camps, the senselessness of war, the invitation to three commissioners and everything else, you are practically defending us here to discuss the way of elections in BiH, the choice of Komsic whose first move was to oppose the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, the next move to return Tito's image to his office, it is clear to me why you are defending him, for all the strength, here are Bosniak politicians and academics and scientists who do not accept such an approach, but as you have already been through your discussion, you have already looked at that you have made a mistake in '45. for not doing a good job because if you had done it, it would probably not be Croatia today, and Croatia would be... national minority status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121682	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Skoric. Answer, dear fellow Stazic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121683	I don't forbid you to discuss anything you want and discuss it however you want, it's a reflection, your discussions are a reflection of your intelligence and your knowledge and this replica. You'll be better judged by others, I've evaluated you a long time ago. He can do this House and discuss whatever he wants, but the proposal for this declaration is an eclectic interference in the affairs of another country, and I have proved it to you on the text, on the text of this declaration and the Minister cannot answer me on behalf of the Government what she would do if any other state in Parliament were to bring such a declaration about Croatia. I know what you would do, you would jump into the air, start yelling if it were an aggression on Croatia, and that aggression, that kind of aggressive policy towards BiH, you are now advocating.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121684	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121685	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Stazic, according to the Rules of Procedure, we know what the declaration is, so we express our views, we have the right to express our views on all important issues, and I believe that the issue of Croats in BiH at the moment is one really important issue. If you don't think so, it's freely your position, you don't have to hide behind the views of international experts. I think that as they have the right to express their position, so do we Croats in the Republic of Croatia and this High House have the right to represent the interests of the Croatian people, especially in BiH where the Croatian people, the constituent people, are. On the other hand, don't you think a mother should take care of a child who no longer lives with her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121686	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. Reply fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121687	Yes, the Croatian people in BiH are a constituent people, and precisely because they are a constituent people, they can take care of themselves and their position. Its position stems from the Dayton Agreement. You know who signed that agreement? Milosevic, on the one hand, Tudjman on the other hand, as two actors in BiH and Izetbegovic, who came from that territory, so you didn't object when Tudjman signed it, where you were then, why you didn't say no to the Dayton Agreement, those Croats are not protected enough. You know why? Do you know why? Because you didn't have the guts to say anything to Tudjman or you or anyone on this side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121688	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121689	Comrade Stazic, you have no problem with facts, you have a problem with the unilateral use of facts you know. I hope that in some future occasion with the death of Bosniaks in the municipality of Knights in Central Bosnia you will show how many Croatians were killed in the war in the area of the municipality of Knights. In addition to 116 Bosniaks tragically injured in Ahmići, 653 Croats were killed in the municipality of Knights for 318 days of siege of the Bosniak army of enclave Croats in central Bosnia. You also selectively point out the signatories of the Dayton Agreement, you know that other than Milosevic, Tudjman, Izetbegovic, many Aneks were signed by Nikola Koljevic, Jadranko Prlic, Krešimir Zubac, Mate Granic and a number of others. You are simply selectively using the fact or you are doing.../Intruder: I thank my esteemed colleague Raguž... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121690	Reply fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121691	The conflict with the Bosniaks, unfortunately, was initiated by the Croats, unfortunately, that they were representatives of my people. The Croats were victims, of course they were victims of that conflict. The victim was on both sides. But today the Catholic popes are squirming and hugging with a convicted war criminal who killed children in Ahmići, it does not affect the Bosniak people, it affects me, and you should also be shot as a representative of that people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121692	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121693	So, you're saying to your colleague, Stazić, that it's a destructive policy founded by the Croatian community of Herceg Bosnia. I'm surprised you didn't say in your presentation that a Republika Srpska which is not a natural part of BiH has never been, was BiH as a Republic and please do not mind if it is newly founded Republika Srpska, I ask that your cynicism that you use in this Declaration be no laughing matter what you use, further concern for the Croats in BiH because so far you've never shown any empathy, no regrets of suffering, no understanding of what happened there. I still wish Herzeg Bosna had stayed, as did Republika Srpska. And the Bosniak endings, so let them be three peoples... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121694	I thank my colleague Djakic. Reply fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121695	I, my colleague Djakic, not only think Republika Srpska's establishment of Republika Srpska was devastating, I think its current survival is also devastating. I think it's a mistake he doesn't have. But you see, that Republika Srpska was also signed by your former president, Tudjman, Dayton, I did not invent the Republic of Serbia, but if Bosnia's policy had been established by Herceg Bosnia, otherwise it would not have been abolished, the International Community had never recognised it, and the consequences are that the number of Croats has been halved, so these are facts, so it is not my fault, so object to those who signed it, I have not, nor would ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121696	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121697	Dear colleague, here, you are a typical Komsic voter, of course, why you love him, so do you also have the same picture of a bloody locksmith in your living room and you hate only, the hydrant you hate because you've been fighting against the Croatian state all your life, everything bothers you that the relationship with the Republic of Croatia is. Let me ask you a quick question, have you ever been in a party, have you worked for Udba, have you typed someone, have you done what you did in the former system and how you can defend that system that killed half a million people and chased a million and a half Croats out of here driven, economically, most of the Croats, who you've called the extra labor force and now you're fighting, in this country you live, where you're beating this country, it's great for you now. You're talking about war and the state of Bosnia of which you have no idea, you're not a historian, you're just a pure Agyptian and would like to defend Croatian prisoners in the former South who have been torturing electroshocks, forced to feed, and now you're a big Democrats, a big south-east fight where he's now become a big Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121698	I thank my colleague Glasnović. Reply fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121699	Yes, if I had to choose between Komsic and Covic, I would choose Komsic, you are right. Because if you saw that fairy Covic did everything with his ten fingers, it would be clear to me what kind of man this is and that man can't trust me. To answer that, I've never been in a party, I've never been in a system, I've never been a prison guard, and I've never beaten anyone up in prison. Excess labour force, today, three buses leave daily, as a surplus workforce under this government, under this majority party, under this diameter, and you all support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121700	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121701	Dearly respected colleague Stazic, you say that Komsic is legitimately elected, is elected by the rules, by the same rules as you are chosen to be chairman of the Committee for the Research of Victims of War or Portrait, i.e. The commission. Imagine you being elected president of that commission to investigate the victims of war and Iraq, and personally your ancestors and those you've stood for all your life are to beat up those victims. And you will indeed determine, the condition, the number of killed, the missing victims of war and peace. Now, my colleague, Stazic, If Croatia depended on the Stazics, Pusics, Manulics and the like, there would be neither Bosnia nor Croatia. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Culej.]] Remind me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121702	Thank you. I asked you several times, based on Art. 239. I give you a warning, you did not stick to the topic in your replica, here you are, the answer of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121703	Komsic was elected according to the same rules, according to which he was elected before. But no one objected when Covic was elected, you know why? Because he was a member of the HDZ, no one said they were no good, but they were great, but if a Croat who is not a member of the HDZ were chosen, then those rules are no good to you, then you would change those rules. I've never been a member, nor have I ever been of any kind, I don't know where you get that from. However, I have here passed a law that was passed on the abolition of the Vukojevic Commission, because the Vukojevic Commission, in its report, wrote but flagrant untruths. And such an audit report, that nothing else could be done with it, but abolished, it was completely incompetent. Now, I'd ask you, but I can't, which one of my ancestors? What kind of an ancestor of mine, what nonsense are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121704	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would really like to ask and appeal to you, be aware that this debate of yours is today watching, many Croats and Croats, both in Croatia and in BiH and abroad. Many after these contentious debates of ours, they ask my God, don't defend us when you are. So let's not disappoint them, but let's go back to the meaning of this declaration and send a message with that declaration and a level of debate to the level of this House of Commons. I now call on behalf of the government, the respected Deputy Prime Minister, Mary Buric Pejcinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Trazić, you have repeatedly cited many things that are not and are not factually accurate, I cannot deny them all and I will not deny them in the time I have, but I will start with the one you started with and repeatedly dragged through your debate, which is that Croatia interferes with the internal affairs of the BIH. That's just not true. Therefore, Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement and as such has the right to watch over how the agreement is implemented. There are other grounds for Croatia's right, you may have forgotten, you may have failed to note that it is a Croatian member of the EU, and that the BIH is a potential candidate for EU membership and as such Croatia is highly invited to question both the rule of law and the various other criteria that the BIH as a potential member should implement on that path in which it prepares for European integration. The rule of law in this context precisely in the application of the ruling of the Constitutional Court of BiH. When you call on 3 respected senior, international officials, they are not EU commissioners, they are high representatives and that is a very big difference. I think that already shows that you may not know until the end of what aspect they can come from, and what they went out with, can be challenged through a number of reasons, through a number of positions, one of them is that in this letter, they actually took for granted, except for calling Croatia, which they have no basis, to suggest and to instruct a modern institution, which is called the EU Council, on how it should be judged, that is, to judge certain criteria and also for the European Commission, which it should say in the future about the BIH. As for others, she might now stop at one of those things where you built a lot of what you said in your speech, which is about the lives of Croats in the BiH BiH and the position of Croats during the former state. So let us talk about it, there are us here and I belong among them who are, who know a little bit more about it because we lived there at the time. So let me agree with you very little about how you romantically showed it and from that you concluded that everything was perfect. So, it wasn't perfect, there were problems and if you don't know, and statistics are most famous to the Croats at the time, they were moving out of the area where the Croats were majority. So there are reasons why the Croats at the time were in a position that may not have been equal. I don't think I'm going to refer to other things right now, but with these few facts that you've said very roughly, you've actually shown that not only do you not appreciate Croats in BiH but also for this debate, you haven't studied the Dayton Agreement well or what it is in the case of Ljubic the Constitutional Court of BiH, nor what it does and can make the foundation for the Republic of Croatia to react when it comes to the situation of Croats in BiH and when it comes to its role as EU members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121706	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. The first replica has Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121707	Dear Minister, thank you for saving us from the agitpropanists who talk about things, getting involved in... They have no idea how the war started, where it ended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're not historians. They're Agitpropovists. For these three musketeers this... Carl Bildt and this third one should be declared persona non grata in Croatia and I would recommend to Mr. Bildt to go there to summer somewhere in Iceland and not on Korčula where there is a house, of course, he came there we know why he came down the same as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from Yugoslavian and bloody locksmith got a call there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, let's say, why aren't these people being educated? Have they ever read a book by Charles Schrader who wrote a book of war in central Bosnia, an American colonel who says what was going on there? That's what I'd say in the end and here's the persona non grata and let's get this... She's taking care of camps in Kenya that she hasn't paid for the UK's damages yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121708	Okay. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121709	Dear Madam Minister, it is clear that the issue of the people's home is much more complex than the issue of election of members of the presidency. Namely, the Law on election of members of the presidency has not changed at all, it has not been amended since the Dayton Agreement and my question is, do we have the arguments to claim that this law is not in line with the Dayton Agreement and that we have the right to say that it has been violated? And do you have any information, is there any conflicting opinion in the international community, so those who claim it's just as agreed in Dayton? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121710	Okay. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121711	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, so I see when the BiH issue is then everyone has the right to debate both those who know and who do not know. Some third-rate Brussels officials are discussing and criticising Bosnian politics and BiH. Knowing that there was a referendum in the Serbian Republic where no one in Brussels stood up and commented on the story. The declaration that we are bringing here today we see that it bothers some but speaking about European journalists so I will mention Deute Welle writes Jovan Vukosavljevic... Jovan Vukosavljevic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nikola Vukobratic and similar newspapers when written in Europe, are written against Croatia, interestingly immediately at the moment journalists accept it as against Croatia, in fact, that's what Serbs write for these newspapers and for these papers and then propagate all Croatia's counter [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, our fight for BiH and this Declaration [[Thank you..]] It's in progress right now. [[Intruder: Mr. Misic, thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121712	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121713	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Buric, such statements as we can hear from the other side of the assembly are precisely the cornerstone of the politics of those who exercise the systematic treading of Croatian rights in BiH and one who understands the political spirit of Dayton, who understands the political situation in BiH and in doing so, would not relativise the problems of Croats. And I also see some discussions here today as a mockery of our people's problems in BiH but I don't blame them, so Angelina Jolie was also in BiH more often than the individual in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121714	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121715	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your predecessor Mr. Brkic says we should return and speak in the spirit of this Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, so I will. And in fact, even though it is in the very proposal of this Declaration if it is read and fellow parliamentary representatives who have read it is actually all thorough and logically explained and I will try somehow to put a few of my thoughts in shorter lines, actually paying attention to every word and every spoken sentence so as not to in any way injure the rights of any people in BiH, of course thinking about their own Croatian people. So the goal of Croatian policy for me in BiH is the full constitutional legal and institutional equality of the Croatian peoples with the other two constituent peoples in BiH and no institutional solution that does not come from that standard should be acceptable to us. The current position of Croats in BiH is far from, both constitutional and real equality. The Croatian people, however, as well as other peoples, are one nation now living in its country, the Republic of Croatia, but it is its state and BiH and will never give up its right to BiH as its second country, another country. The Croats in BiH are looking for nothing more, but they won't and can't agree to anything less than the other two constituent nations have. The Croats in BiH are the fewest people, but they are not minorities but are one of the three constituent nations. The current political tendencies in BiH and behaviour towards Croats are below the level of individual national minorities in some countries, not to mention the Republic of Croatia. The institutional inequality of Croats in BiH is recognised by many of the major international factors, and I hope it was recognised by political representatives of the other two constituent nations in BiH. It is a problem that must be solved because Croatian identity is one of the foundations of BiH's identity. The constitutional right and the institutional equality of all three constituent nations is a condition of BiH's survival as a single state, I particularly stress. The delaying solution to the Croatian national issue in BiH does not contribute to BiH's Euro-Atlantic integration as a state, and thus to the stability of the whole southeast of Europe. Without a solution to the Croatian issue, there is no solution to other problems in BiH. Croatia as a state has a legitimate interest in maintaining BiH's stability and we have the right to say what we think about the situation of Croats in BiH, because BiH's stability is also dependent on Croatia's stability. Croatia has become a full member of the EU and is in the interest of becoming BiH, but the first and inevitable condition, as I have already pointed out, to speed up BiH's process in the EU and NATO is resolving the Croatian issue in BiH. The Croatian interest is also the EU's interest, which is a stable BiH that follows European standards. I think the time has come for legitimate political representatives of all three constituent peoples in BiH to finally sit down and start, or rather, continue serious talks on BiH's sustainable constitutional legal arrangement as a multinational state of three constituent nations and all its citizens. BiH can be arranged as a decentralised legal and social state composed of federal units with equal rights and responsibilities. As many federal units as there are going to be, I don't think it's that important at all. In fact, how many legitimate representatives of the three nations agree, but when establishing the federal units themselves, in addition to historical and geographical criteria, account must also be taken of ethnic criteria. In federal units where a nation is a majority people, equality should be guaranteed for other peoples and citizens, thus establishing true equality between all peoples and citizens in the territory of all BiH. Besides, as far as I know, HDZ BiH has already developed the foundations of the BiH Constitution and I think it is a good platform for constructive talks and constitutional arrangements in BiH. Teached by experience so far, Croats should never and will never agree to such solutions where they will be represented and represented by Croats who are not elected by the majority will of the Croatian people in BiH at any level of government, and would not want such a system to be created that would bring other peoples, Bosniaks and Serbs into that position. The legitimate political representatives of the Croatian people in BiH should have full support for the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia will accept any agreement accepted by legitimate representatives of Croats in BiH. I do not need to particularly point out that the legitimate will of the majority of the Croats in BiH according to these last general elections, which we talked about today, gave confidence to another person. Therefore, I think it is high time to establish a genuine and honest dialogue with these political parties without a fig in their pocket. Any attempt to resolve the Croatian issue in BiH past the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people in BiH and lead BiH into a dead end against their will. Let's say, for starters, and I see that it was also in the Declaration, one true dialogue and as a sign of goodwill, it would be worth using the issue of establishing a television channel in the Croatian language in BiH, which is opposed by Bosniak parties in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The support itself to establish the Croatian-based television channel in Mostar would be a clear signal to the Croats in BiH that the Bosniak people's political parties are also ready for a genuine dialogue with the political representatives of the Croats in BiH, to resolve the Croatian issues in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121716	Thank you, too. You have four replicas, the first question is Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121717	You were talking about the need for 3 constituent nations to agree on the basis of federal plantings on the arrangement of the BIH and therefore I am fully in agreement with you. However, what we were not talking about here today, and what I am not talking about, is that part of the crucial influence of the international community, which has created today's solution, the constitutional solution of the BIH, in a way that these obstacles as well as the installation, i.e. the establishment of Croatian television. What should be reminded, and here today there were words, is so Croatia created and agreed to the Republika Srpska. That's not true at all. If you read Ali Izetbegovic, he himself admits that he... to agree to the Republika Srpska and thus not to discuss the existence of Republika Srpska in Dayton at all, but it was not even discussed at 51.49 because it was previously agreed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121718	Thank you. Mr. Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121719	... Honored Professor [[Specially enabled.]] Tudjman, that I said today in the replica that something called the Federation is made up of federal units and I don't see any problem here. In the very explanation of this declaration actually stands when you look at a historical context, let's say from the time of Austria, where three people are mentioned, then Croats, Muslims and Serbs, then the decision... The communist Yugoslavia, the modern BiH, was nowhere to be questioned by the three peoples of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is not good, because if we look at that Croatian people today in BIH cannot consume those rights, it actually leads to certain frustrations, and these frustrations, partly, come from what you said in your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121720	Thank you, ma'am. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121721	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babić, today in this important document for the Croatian people in BIH, we hear from one of them that he is a camel of others that intervening in the internal policy of the BIH but today we are only discussing what Croatia as a signator of the Dayton Agreement is obliged to do and that is to worry about the conduct of the same. But if for no other reason, then because of those 553 thousand Croats who still live in the BiH, who are equal to the other two nations, taking care of their people, is not a interference in internal politics, I don't think that's the case. Some have said that we are ashamed of today's debate, if it's a shame to talk about our people in another country, then let us be ashamed, here we are today talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121722	Thank you, too. Mr. Babic, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121723	Thank you, dear colleague Maximchuk, for actually helping us do things again. So, in my debate, I took great care of every word and every sentence, because in that old... I wouldn't want anyone calling me tomorrow for any false word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I've been keeping an eye on that. So, as far as the consistency itself is concerned, we are talking about the consistency of 3 peoples, Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks, and this is the starting point for solving all problems in the BIH. According to the last census, there are 563 thousand Croats. They are the fewest people, but they are the constituent people in the BiH. Therefore, this starting point must be the starting point for all other and future institutional solutions in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121724	Mr. Sladovev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Babic, I agree in part with your debate, but I disagree with one fact, which is foreign institutions, whether they recognize the position of Croats in the BiH and have given support. I think the present position of Croats is primarily the defeat of Croatian politics, Croatian politicians in the BiH, then also Croatian politics in Croatia, but also European policies. The paradoxical fact is that the Croats in the BIH, the only advocates of the euro integration, that these institutions have been left at bay, and I think that this declaration that we are sending and the message to Europe, will not actually show how much we care about the Croats in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121726	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121727	Thank you. Dear colleague of Sladolev I agree, I am convinced of what you are saying and in the annual assembly... And in some things, because this is where our respected minister, who actually spoke to the Council of Ministers about this subject two weeks ago, is present. And then we got a report that 8 countries were actually talking about it,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bulgaria 18. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some countries don't realize it at all. The fact is that both a large part of politicians in the Republic of Croatia and a large, and most citizens in the Republic of Croatia do not understand the situation in the BIH, i.e. this complicated political system. I understand that on the one hand. But it's up to us, and we've often talked about it both at the party's representation and at the club, that we have one initiative, both through our diplomacy, but also through all the international situations, wherever we can, that we can actually explain the real, real and true picture of the BIH, and... The position of Croats in the BiH seems to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121728	Thank you. Now Mr. Ante Babic will be replicating Mr. Ante Babic Grandma. [[Intruder: Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121729	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Babić, you yourself come from Dalmatia Zagora, which is a borderline part with BIH, I am pleased that in the initial part of your presentation you have just rejected the the thesis of individual representatives that this declaration is actually a interference in the internal policy of the BIH, but you have mentioned the very factor of stability, how much of the Croats in the BIH, but also the general issue of BIH is important for the stability of the Republic and our entire neighbourhood, it is important to stress that this Declaration and this issue is not a interference in the internal affairs of BiH, this is an act of the most direct active Republic policy in its most important foreign policy priority, and this is to preserve the equality of the Croatian people, particularly peace and stability in our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121730	Thank you. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121731	So, counterpart Bačić, you're right, I actually live on the border with BiH and often these problems experienced by BiH Croats I experience and personally and will always work to help the Croats in BiH, help my people. So, anyway, it's a constitutional obligation for us all here at HS. What you said, therefore, is whether it is a interference in BiH's internal affairs, I said in my statement that it is acceptable for the Croatian state to accept what is acceptable to the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people in BiH, so what is acceptable to them should be acceptable to the Croatian authorities, whoever it is with HDZ today, tomorrow with someone else, but what is acceptable to the legitimate representatives of the Croats in BiH must also be acceptable to the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121732	Thank you, too. Now we continue with individual debates. Mr. Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121733	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm listening to colleagues who apologize all the time, so that old Latin... who apologizes, accuses himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speaks Latin]] So, in two days 14.12., we plan to adopt this Declaration, the general position of the HS on the position of Croats in BiH. It turned out that, it wasn't planned, which was the day, the day the Dayton Agreement was signed in Paris, so we will adopt the HS Declaration 23 years after the Agreement signed in Paris. It's high time, it's high time for this to happen in the Republic of Croatia, we wanted it to happen before the elections in BiH, before the general elections, it turned out good that it would be on the anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Agreement, 14.12, symbolism is important, it turned out so, it's positive. When President Tudjman first came from Dayton, then I started working in the office of President of the Republic, so President Tudjman addressed one member of the Croatian public, said that I was quoting, as part of the Dayton Conference, we also achieved very important agreements, of great importance for the restoration of Washington's agreements on the creation of the Bosniak Croatian Federation and its integration with the Republic. The Republic of Croatia is a Bosniak Muslim delegation, signed an Agreement on the Recovery of the Federation of BiH with the testimony of representatives of the United States, the EU and Germany, France, the United Kingdom, etc., Russia with an addendum to the natural statute of Mostar as a unique city with several municipalities. So much for that. So the Republic of Croatia played an active role in the negotiations, an active role in creating the Federation, in creating this BiH, it was the status of then the Republic of Croatia that saved BiH and the situation of the Croats who saved BiH, and since then, 23 years later, the Croatians' position in BiH has been constantly degraded, constantly, fell to very low branches of Croats in BiH, from that strong position in BiH in the 95th year, along with the Croatian Army and the BiH Army, freed many parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. So the first very important sentence of the Croats in BiH and the Republic of Croatia saved BiH. Second, who are the first victims of the war in BiH, Croats, village of Ravna, in early October 91s? Who stopped the tanks first in BiH? Croats. Who, after 23 years, who are the biggest victims of demographics in BiH, Croats, compared to the 91st year, is only 71.6%, when you look at the percentage of Serbs, there are about 80% of them from the 91st year and Bosniaks 93%. So, the biggest losers of the war in BiH are the Croats who are the first to resist the aggression of Serbia and JNA, these are the numbers, these are the data, from which no one can escape, whatever anyone is saying, and of course the Croats and victims of this type of BiH, the structure as it is, he is accepted, we have two endities and three peoples. And now we have a situation where in this Federation where most Croats live, we have two peoples, we have Bosniaks and Croats and others, and now we have that paradox, that irony in history that he talked about in another way when the war broke out in the former Yugoslavia, the crisis that Johann George Reissmuller was talking about two days ago when President Tudjman, who wrote the texts in France... He said, he wrote about Serbs in the war in the former Yugoslavia, in February 91st. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote, the mentality of the boss's people drives layers of Serbs who determine politics to treat other peoples in Yugoslavia as objects of their will to subjugate. He was talking about the obsession of the people of the land, which is what happens today in the Federation. Our friends of the Bosniaks are subject to this siege of the boss's people and they forget that this has caused the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to fail. Of course, she fell in the front row for the attack on Hitler's Germany. But it fell apart very quickly because then most of the Serbs in those ruling layers were under the impression of master mentality. Today we have the same phenomenon in the Federation of BiH. So we have mentality, we're the bosses, we're going to determine where this ship is going to sail and it's very dangerous. If the Kingdom of Yugoslavia learns a lesson, then BiH is ill-written. Our friends Bosniaks must understand that without a fair structure, without the equality of all three peoples, there is no happiness, no future in BiH, no happiness and a future in the Federation of BiH. In this Croatian Parliament, we have achieved a few crucial things in this young political community, we are an old political community in a young country, it is the first consensus on statehood and recognition of statehood. The second consensus was about the Homeland War, we have a Declaration of Homeland War. The third consensus on the European pathway. A consensus is now needed in the Assembly on the way of the declaration also on the position of Croats in BiH. I really appeal to a fellow in the opposition who are a little "insecure" to understand the seriousness of the moment. The survival of Croats in BiH is threatened and every voice of reason is needed and a strong message of the Croatian Parliament is needed when it comes to BiH and the Croats there. If the U.S. Congress can adopt a resolution yesterday on North Stream II, if the German Parliament adopts a Resolution on Armenians in World War I. War, my people, can't we adopt the Declaration of the position of Croats in BiH? Well, I feel bad, I have to say, I have to stress it at all, I mean, who are we even afraid of? We have no one to be afraid of, we have a constitutional obligation, we have an international obligation because we have signed the Dayton agreement, I have quoted President Tudjman as saying what his contribution was, the contribution of Croatia and the contribution of Croats to BiH when it comes to BiH. Without Croatia, BiH would be gone. She wouldn't be here, and that's what we have to say. We're responsible for her still being there. It would have been pitched. Therefore, we need to adopt this declaration with as many votes as possible, be aware of the obligations the Republic of Croatia has, we are sending a message to the Croatian government, the Croatian President, the Croatian public, we have expectations, thank God these expectations are being met, we have a message to the international community, according to the European public, the Croatian Parliament has responsibility for the situation in BiH. We want a stable, functional BiH and this will not work without Croats in BiH. I don't want to watch a movie about the relic of the reliquiarum of the Croats in BiH. about some relics, so we will look at them in some museums, in Knin or elsewhere in Croatia, no, we want the Croats to survive and we will not let God be given tomorrow, which, of course, lies artis, will never be possible for anyone to propose who will be the bishop and cardinal of the Croats in BiH. We will not watch this movie, so we exist here, we have our own obligation, not just us in HDZ, we do not have a monopoly in HDZ over interpreting things Croatians in BiH, have colleagues from the SDP. I want them to be as much entered, brought into it by other opposition colleagues like us in HDZ, let's organize and give strong support to the Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121734	Thank you, Mr. Kovac. I would recommend since you were on the verge of violating Article 240. ... To the peoples, to speak of the political leaders of these peoples, and not of the peoples as such. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The political leaders of the people, not the nations as such, to speak. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You used the Syntagma of the “Gazdin people”... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] on two occasions and what does Article 240 say? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Article 240 says that a reminder by taking away words that I will not give, but I warn, is given to the representative and when he calls for violence or hatred, which is not the case when he insults Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, gender, gender and other groups, as well as foreign and international organisations and their representatives. It's a syntagma that actually refers to one people. ... Yes, I'll give you my word. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] On two nations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121735	Dear President, I've quoted a man named Johan... who wrote the text in February '91. Mr. and talk about the mentality of the landlord's people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll do it wherever you want, and in the Croatian Assembly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121736	All right, all right. But this author isn't here, so I can't talk about him, right, I can only talk about the one who quotes him, but we'll stay on it, I recommend that we talk about political leaders and not the peoples, that's all. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121737	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, I wonder today what is the consistency of the people in BiH? What is equality when it's been gone for 25 years? You mentioned that the Croats saved BiH and that's the total truth and true truth, if it wasn't for the Croats, the question of whether it would have been BiH. The sacrifices we made, no nation could bear. Loss of Croats, you said this well, about the irony of history, the ownership when you mentioned Serbs and Muslims today who think they have a Federation, that they can manage if they are most. No, then it is not the constituent people of Croatia, then it is not justice. We don't want to take away anything from them but we want to have what they have. We don't have television,... Radio,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing Croatian and we have the consistency of the people and what does that mean? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right like everyone else. How about we don't talk about the Serbian Republic that we don't have any more rights there,... No one is asking questions, the International Community must review BiH and re-do a part of the story they have not done so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121738	Time. Mr. Kovac, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121739	Thank you very much. Mr. President means I will repeat, I am convinced, I am sure a healthy logic requires that there is no solution without agreement with the Bosniak people in BiH, the Bosniak people in BiH are plural, there are many people who understand it and know that without that mentality, with this mentality that they only decide on the future of the Federation of BiH that there is no happiness there. And it was also shown in the case that I told both the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the SFRY, that such a way of doing so would lead to destruction. I am convinced that there will be consensus and that sound logic and wit will win but it is important that Croatia as a state and that as such, Parliament sends a clear message and that it works that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121740	Thank you, too. Mr. Škorić, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121741	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are for a long time and we are discussing the situation, the status of the Croatian people. So here is the past, not so long ago in 1995, after the end of the war, great Croatian victories and the signing of the Dayton Agreement, we believed that a time of peace took place, a time for ensuring the equality of all three constituent peoples in BiH, as the International Community but also the Republic of Croatia as one of the signatories of the agreement. Unfortunately, after more than two decades, we are once again witnessing orchestrated attacks that question the very existence of the Croatian people in BiH and that are more perfided than ever before. The Bosniak political leadership unfortunately did not give up the goal of creating a unitary BiH, its goals and its true face are constantly showing and are no longer trying to hide it. That's why we can't keep our eyes shut anymore. The Croatian people of BiH are today defending their survival, as well as the European values in BiH. By chance or not, we are discussing this issue on this very day of today, when Pope Leon X gave the Croatian title Antemurale Christianitatis - the throne of Christianity in a letter to the Croatian Ban and a hero in the fight against Turks, the invincible Ban Petar Berislavic. It is realistic that our interest, for BiH to one day be a member of the EU, is a NATO member but it can neither be the only answer to the question of survival nor our country, let alone the question of salvation for the Croatian people in BiH. We must have an alternative in the event that the other two peoples now have reservations according to these goals and seek to gain and to vote on a more favourable status at the expense of the Croatian people in BiH. We must not allow Croats in BiH to become a constituency coin for the remaining two international, two nations in front of the International Community. Nor can we expect the International Community to protect our interests unless we impose it ourselves as a matter of our priority. Our obligation, we have the right to do so, not only do we have the right to do so but we also have a constitutional and particularly important obligation in international agreements to protect the interests of our people in BiH. I therefore believe that in this Declaration we need to emphasise more strongly that the Washington Agreement recognises the existing realities in BiH, that the Federation of BiH does not come from anything but from the military and from the administrative administrations under the control of the Republic of BiH, or the army of BiH and the Republic of Herceg-Bosnia and the HVO, and that this is our role in the Federation and that this role is neither unconditional nor gone at any time. It is time to stop being ashamed of the very mention of the name Herceg-Bosna idea which is precisely the perseverance of Bosniak politicians and we see today some in this High Croatian House unfortunately become undesirable in public space. I note that only the existence of such an organisation of the Croatian people has kept the Croatian people from disappearing and the danger that unfortunately is being threatened again today. Unfortunately, today in Croatia, we too act as if it did not exist and it does not exist. That is why it was also possible for the Republic of Herceg-Bosnia and the HVO since 2000 to not completely ignore the status of Croats in BiH to be criminalised by fierce campaigns in Croatia itself, to become perfectly normal in the Croatian public discourse to broadcast and promote an entire series of inaccuracies, lies and slanders about the Croatian people in BiH about the famous Hercegovians, to publicly criminalise prominent military and political champions of the Croatian people without any arguments and most often with classical counterfeits created in Bosniak intelligence services. The conduct of neither the International Community nor the Ad hoc tribunal in The Hague should therefore be surprising, especially the behaviour of the Bosniak leadership. These are the consequences of the fact that in Croatia we have actually allowed such development of things and by our inaction we have actually encouraged such behaviour. Why? Because we didn't have a single attitude and a single policy. And we see as much as the Republic of Croatia is moving away from the debate, from the future of BiH, that Croats in BiH are becoming more and more difficult and less in BiH. I recall that under the Washington Agreement which is both a pension and a state agreement between the two sovereign nations where Croatia appears as a guarantee is signed and a special relationship agreement between the Federation of BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which instead of being implemented and developed as it started in the first years of its operation, is actually completely ignored and put aside during the Racan government. The Agreement has never been annulled by the Croatian Parliament, nor has the Federal Parliament annulled it, has neither been disputed before any competent international body nor is it contrary to the Dayton Agreement, even moreover, its original component is the prerequisite of the political act. Today, Serbia, on the basis of this special agreement with the Republika Srpska, has achieved legal and legitimate co-operation, internationally valid, and we have given up the same rights to a special position in relation to the interests of our people in BiH, even allowing us, within Croatia and for national circles, to respect the interference in so-called domestic affairs of BiH. What kind of interference? So we are under international agreements, which we also co-signatures are obliged to follow directly, and it also affects the final and optimal solution and the arrangement of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is obviously not good as it is, and unfortunately it is agreed by international representatives. Of these agreements concerning Croatia's special relations with the Federation of BiH, this body must not give up. This is exactly what we need to be one of the instruments for a legitimate fight to preserve the stability and interest of the Croatian people. Croatia is as a signator and as a guarantee to the Dayton Agreement, at the same time as a guarantee of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is an integral part of that Agreement, which is why Croatia is obliged to protect this extremely important document and the basic document of the neighbouring country, from the attacks, they came from outside or from within, by one constitutive people who are trying to derrogate and degrade this document and all other documents. I would like to stress that calling on the Constitutional Obligation of the Republic of Croatia is a binding matter for political and other institutional actors in the Republic of Croatia. But it also does not matter the international foundation of our action towards BiH, because any state can put whatever it wants into its constitution. These are the most important international agreements of which the Special Relations Agreement with the Federation is most important to us at the moment. That is why I propose that the Special Relations Agreement be incorporated into the preamble of the Declaration, as an international contract which opens wide the door to Croatia for internationally valid action in protecting and promoting the interests of Croats in BiH. In conclusion, the purpose and purpose of this Declaration must be to invite all participants of public and social life in Croatia, especially those of national policies, that in Croatia itself, the full climate should be changed immediately for the conduct of our interests in BiH, as well as the promotion, and the commitment to the awareness that the threat of the interest of Croats in BiH is actually a direct blow to the Republic of Croatia. That is why it was appropriate to react to the threat of war, which we heard, on our television from Bakir Izetbegovic, therefore, in a way that directly threatens the Croatian people as a whole, and condemn such behaviour in our country. This declaration is therefore, in its essence, the Declaration of the Most Important All Croatian Interests, not only its primary meaning for the care of the Croats in BiH, but its ultimate call, its concern for its overall Croatian national interests. Who doesn't understand it and who encourages representatives of the other two people, and their public promoters that in Croatia they have no awareness of it and that in the Republic of Croatia they have an ally or a standoff for their imperial and unfair goals, directly working against Croatian national interests, so not only against Croats in BiH. Who directly destroys the fundamental assumptions for any possibility of maintaining a common BiH state, calling for a single BiH, a simple flossula and a mask, which we have had the opportunity to experience with Milosevic and Yugoslavia as well. Finally, the purpose and purpose of this Declaration must also be an open invitation to all participants in political and public life in Croatia, that the climate must change in Croatia according to our interests in BiH, and raising awareness that by hitting Croats in BiH, Croatia has also been struck as such. It is our duty to take care of the common national interests, and the interests of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are their essential part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121742	Thank you, too, for your accuracy. Mr. Misic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121743	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Škorić, you mentioned the salvation of the people in one of your own, in one word. What does that mean? You said the European values of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which also the Croats that we are helping Bosnia and Herzegovina to do so, but if we watch Bosnia and Herzegovina stand, and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that this declaration that we are talking about today, I think there is one precondition and we should sit down all the peoples, Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian, to discuss the situation in Bosnia after 25 years, to see where we are today. If they saw and everyone looked real, they'd see that the Croats were truly underrated, really kicked out of institutions in the sense that you had all the rights and you don't have any. So I think it would be time for the international community to sit with the same politicians and try to solve Bosnia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121744	Thank you. Thank you, time. I know it's one minute short, but that's the answer to the line. Mr. Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121745	Thank you very much. Here I am through my presentation, so I tried to point out our internal problems and inconsistency towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, and according to the interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is necessary to change these relations as well. It is indisputable that there are international agreements that are stronger and from our constitutional obligation to protect the interests and rights in the Republic of Croatia, however, if here, here today in the Croatian Parliament persistently repeats propaganda, so we also condemn all the crimes in Ahmići, and at the same time is silent, silence the crimes committed in Trussina, the same day that the cases in Ahmići, where everything that could walk was killed and slaughtered, then we practically come to a situation that is getting very strange and thus sending a bad message about the protection of the interests of our people in the neighbouring country. Therefore, the question of who does it for, and whose interests, and could anyone possibly buy apartments borrowed from money like former President Mesic did?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121746	Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121747	Thank you, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121748	No, sorry, sorry, sorry, Mrs. Maximchuk before. Yeah, that was before, yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121749	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Skoric, once again, I will repeat that our right and obligation is to protect the Croatian people in BiH. When it was due to defend the Republic of Croatia at that time there were no doubts, thousands of Croats from BiH joined the defence of the Republic of Croatia, today when the Croatian people expect that we will at least have a consensus here in this assembly when we discuss this important document, and as far as Croats are concerned in BiH, we do not have it. This declaration is very important, because all those who went that way, all who had to leave their homes, go back to the hearth, start from the beginning know what it is, all those who have lost their memories, all those who have been told by good neighbors, that you will leave tonight will come for you, those same neighbors have entered their houses and all those same Croats need to live there again and we need them here today to stop and our obligation is to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121750	Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121751	Here you are right, so we are from this very high home sending a message, sending a climate, sending encouragement to our fellow countrymen in neighbouring BiH. Our behaviour in Croatia depends tomorrow and their future. However, there are many examples so in the past where we have not condemned the behaviours that occur where people of other nationalities are named, they are called Croats, so they get the place of ambassadors. We don't react here when some famous actor who operates from the great position on the same day of discretion, on the basis of discretion, gets a housekeeper from the Minister of the Interior, and on the other hand, when our proven friends like Halid Bashlic are looking for this, this procedure has been going on for years. Not to say that the Croat from BiH is also asking the housekeeper to proceed from 12 to 24 months. And with these tiny messages we send a message as much as we care about the interest of Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121752	Thank you, now really Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, in the first part of yours, you mentioned this entire historic framework on relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and you repeatedly stressed that there was no single policy, but after your presentation you ended up having to change the climate of relations with BiH. That is why I would like, since you and the vice president of the City Council of Split, I would like you to point out in this very spirit of optimism and stress that among the first sentences made by our mayor Opar when he entered the mayor's seat that our natural pool is going deep in BiH and that he sees Split from Split to the Cooperian gate. This is the way KBC Split behaves, so is the university in Split, and I believe this declaration if we establish a consensus, so all of Croatia could behave as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121754	Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121755	Thank you. You're right. Borders can divide countries, but they can't divide a single nation. Therefore, we lead such a policy that our people feel that it is unique and our constitutional obligation, it is about Croatian citizens where they live and what is certainly positive in all this, encourages and encourages the fact that the current state summit is active politically and in all its actions sends a clear message that Croatians, that Croatia will insist on protecting the interests of Croats in BiH. This may have surprised Bosniak creators of the usurpation of Croatian constitutional changes, as the reaction of the official Zagreb, which was for the first time since 2000, strong political protection of Croats to equality with other constituent peoples of BiH. Therefore, that direction should be continued, and I am sure we will stop BiH from stopping the Croats' stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121756	And the last replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121757	Thank you, Vice-President, in your debate, you have touched the recent past and the Homeland War in BiH where it is clear to all that just the military cooperation of the Croatian military, the HVO and the BiH Army and their military-redarative operations led to the signing of the Dayton Agreement and the establishment of peace. I must stress that these military-redhartic operations were also attended by the legendary Varazdinian VII. The Pume Guard Brigade, which means that more "Puma" died on the BiH battlefield than Croatia was 92 dead, killed 50 in BiH. That is exactly what should be an incentive for the Bosniak people to work on the consistency of all three peoples, because when BiH's biggest friend was most difficult and the Bosniak was exactly the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121758	Thank you, Mr. Škorić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121759	Thank you very much, you're right, so as much as Croatia has helped BiH, so much has been helped by the Croats from BiH. So here's if we remember the analysis of members of the Croatian Army troops from the ranks of the Croatian people from BiH, it's about a huge number of people who joined the defence. Therefore, we acted in every way to the international community, not to the international representatives who were in BiH, but to the role of President Tudjman and the then Croatian leadership that prevented the new largest genocide in Europe, after Srebrenica, which stopped the war, where at that time we had no problem with the Bosniaks who looked at us liberators, but unfortunately we did not continue such a policy, and we did not continue it for the reasons that there were many of the quiet ones who challenged both in Croatia and who were sending troops to BiH. and declare BiH's rescue a crime [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And going to someone else's country. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121760	Let's move on with the debates, the individual, Mr. Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so today we've heard a lot of things through this whole day's debate. And I have to admit that she's actually sorry. It seemed several years ago that there was indeed a high degree of consensus in Croatia about the importance of the survival of Croats in the BiH, about their equality of constitutionality, but after what we heard from the opposition, it seems unfortunately not the case. There are many things that have been said, there have been different manipulations, truth God, some have remained consistent, as counterpart Pusic, what they have been saying for 25 years and are actually working to deconsistencies and confiscation of the rights of the Croatian people in the BIH, but I am sorry that some other opposition MPs have largely gone that way and said some things that we would have heard from lobbyists before, from some Bosniak party and not from representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, just to refer to some things, first the story of mixing the internal thing bih. First, Croatia is one of the co-signatures of the Dayton Agreement, which is the basis of the Constitution and the complete arrangement of the BIH. The second Croatian Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is the most legal act of the Republic of Croatia, which binds us all, says, I have already quoted, art. The first rule in the Republic of Croatia comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens, of all citizens, no matter where they live. There are no citizens, first and second order in Croatia. If they existed it would be an aparthay, it would be something like some African states from the last century. In Croatia, therefore, all its citizens are equal, including the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in the BiH. That's right. Ten. The Constitution makes an explicit commitment by the Republic of Croatia to care and protect the rights of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who live and reside outside the Republic of Croatia. So it's not a question of whether or not we're going to deal with Croats in BIH, it's our constitutional obligation, our duty, and the one who does it, we can actually say that it violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Second, as regards the role of Croats themselves in the BIH, counterpart Stazic said the Croats made Bosniaks, initiated the Croatian-Bosnian war, etc. I would point out again, it was repeatedly mentioned, but it should be repeated further, so the Croats saved the BiH. No Croatian votes in the referendum, which was 29.2. and 1.3.'92. Sir, I'm sure you wouldn't have voted independence. If the turnout was 63% of Croatians were then 17% in BIH, mathematics is clear. And there the Republic of Croatia has certainly played a key role, so that the BIH will be independent at all. Secondly, during the war, Croatia cared for more than half a million, Bosniaks, exiles, refugees in the Republic of Croatia. Which cost Croatia billions and billions. So with that I don't know which country and which people who have committed aggression against another people and attacked another people, at the same time take care of the refugees of that other people. Also, the Republic of Croatia would be able to discuss how smart it was, train and arm the BiH unit, some of which later attacked those Croats as was the case in Travnik. And those are the things that need to be put into context, and that's what I think should be enlightened anyway. Furthermore, the EU and the European pathway BiH, I will say something that we all know more or less. The only Croatian people who are majority in the BIH want the European path BIH really is true. So Serbs look more towards Russia, Bosniaks towards Turkey and some other countries, it is the Croats who advocate respect for European principles, respect for the European... , and the entry of BIH into the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what needs to be emphasized, and it's the Republic of Croatia's duty to help them. As for the survival of the BiH, yes. So the survival of the BiH and what the Croats have always wanted, however, is the greatest responsibility for the survival of a multinational state in the largest nation. We saw an example from SFRY. So in SFRY, there was just a situation where the most numerous people, these were Serbs, tried to usurp power and take away the right and equality and collective rights of the few nations, similar to what is happening now in the BIH and we know what happened then. And that is why if someone is guaranteed survival of the BIH, they are Croats, but yet Croats as an equal people with all possible mechanisms of protection. It also mentioned Dragan Covic, Zeljko Komsic, who is a better candidate, is not etc. This is all about directing stories in a completely wrong direction, what is important is that Dragan Covic received 80% of the Croatian votes, whose is representative and spirit of the Constitution of... The agreement and its purpose and the laws need to be interpreted according to the purpose of the Constitution, and then the question is whether the electoral law, which was passed at a time when Croatian representatives were not in the bodies of the BIH, is whether such an electoral law is constitutional or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the purpose of the Constitution, and the purpose of the Dayton Constitution is that Croats have their representatives, it could be said not. But there was also a story about whether it was us, whether it was an electoral law when Covic was elected when it wasn't Komsic and so on. So Komsic would have been elected three times if he had been able to run. So Komsic was elected twice by the votes of Bosniaks, he would have been elected three times if he had had the ability to run three times in a row and each time he was elected by Bosniaks. And I don't think our attitude has changed. But what is important is that he who is the legitimate representative of the Croatian people, for whom the Croats and the plebicitarians voted, is the one who the Croats should represent. And that's what, that's what's the key to the whole story. So they don't matter names at all, they don't matter individuals at all, whether someone's a fake socialist or not, it's important who's the legitimate representative of which people. Also mentioned by counterpart Glasovic. Komsic was once in the SDP, however, is now in the democratic front. So whoever did the votes, this time for Komsic, they weren't just so-called. B.I.C. citizens than it was the U.S.A. The SDA and their people on the ground, who are all but citizens, just not some open broad spirit and the like, they did the story for Komsic, precisely to show the Croats according to their logic where they belong. So we're not just talking about Titoism, some civil BiH, but we're talking about direct usurping of Croatian people's rights, by Bosniak political parties and Bosniak political elites. And that's where we, where we actually need to focus, where we need to direct the whole debate. As far as the home of the people is concerned, the home of the people is what is the key. So Komsic and the question of the presidency is a symbol, but the home of the people is the key, because the home of the people depends on the constitution of the government at the federal level and on the state level. And that's exactly where the high representatives, some of whom now like Petric to forgive us for the salt of mind, have also pushed away the biggest role of taking away their rights to the Croats, not to go into all the details now, I think it has already been mentioned, but they have already taken away the protection mechanisms of the Croats there and that is at the end of what was... is the part that the Constitutional Court has now assessed as anti-constitutional, which is the part where the Bosnian-Posavina Canton, where there are perhaps 100 Croats, can choose a representative of Croats in the home of the people, as well as the Posavina Canton where there may be 20 or 30 thousand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're talking about pure discrimination. Now, as far as that part is concerned, here again, when we talk about mixing internal affairs, so I think respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court is part of the European acquis. If BiH is a candidate for EU entry and if some parties are there, some institutions are deaf about the Constitutional Court's verdict, it is our duty that the parliament of an EU state be warned. And that is quite clear, it is in line with all European principles and it is ultimately in line with that practice that Croatia had to go through to join the EU. So, these stories that we've heard here on the other side simply don't stand in any way. Also mentioned is Carl Bildt and mentions his reputation in the international community. That would be discussed, but the fact that this gentleman, when the storm began, asked for sanctions from the Republic of Croatia to be imposed because of the storm. So that's that distinguished gentleman, who some here in the Parliament are quoting. So if Mr. Stazic Carl Bildt is respected, then we have to ask ourselves what Mr. Trazic's attitude is about Storm and some other things. And that's exactly what I said, where we really need some basic things to have a consensus. Anyway, to conclude, the Declaration should be supported, of course. It is in line with the Constitution, with all regulations and what is particularly important, the Republic of Croatia should support every solution, as my colleagues also spoke of which they support and for which legitimate representatives of Croats in BiH advocate. HS cannot impose a solution, unlike some sovereigns who say that HS should be said by the third entity. I'd like to say something like that, but HS and the Republic of Croatia can neither have the possibility nor need to make such decisions. It is only for the BiH authorities to decide on the basis of the agreement of legitimate representatives of the people and therefore the first step is so that Croats can have legitimate representatives in BiH bodies so that they can talk and negotiate with other legitimate representatives of other peoples, whoever they are. And that's what it is, that's the direction in which we need to focus this whole debate, and if someone doesn't like Bakir Izetbegović, Zeljko Komsic, SDS, Milorad Dodig or something like that. It is important who are the legitimate representatives of the people who can represent them and who can reach such an agreement. So, to finish, the survival of Croats in BiH is of key strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, it was for the Homeland War, without Croats in BiH, surely Croatia could not defend itself, and that is why we all have not only the right but also the obligation to do everything we can to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121762	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121763	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleague Sokol. I agree with everything in your debate, but here's another one. Croatians in BiH and Croats in Croatia are one people, but it is the impression that we speak positively only when they achieve good results through sports, cultural and entertainment competitions or content. Who can only forget the arrival of our team from, or our firemen from Russia and when we know that half of this team is from BiH. The Croats from BiH are not asking for anything that does not belong to them under the Constitution, but they will not agree to anything less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121764	Mr. Falcon, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121765	Thank you very much. ... I agree with you, and that's not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] BiH grips have made a huge contribution to sports development of the Republic of Croatia, but not only in sports, look at our prominent scientists, writers, journalists, some of the most famous journalists in the Republic of Croatia from some past times that have just come from BiH and certainly given great pain to this society. But the fact is, unfortunately, some in the Republic of Croatia today because of their particular interests, are actually doing everything to reduce their rights in BiH. But I think we must fight it, so we must fight the politics of Stjepan Mesic and Vesna Pusic rather than really have to defend and fight for the interest of that part of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121766	Thank you, Mrs. Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121767	Thank you, Vice President HS. So, fellow Sokol, you have repeated several times in your debate the concept of usurpation of Croatian rights in BiH. We all know what happened to the electoral law and what law today, that is, the other day a Croatian representative was elected to BiH. However, I would also point out with a recent example in Croatia, not only the usurpation of the rights of Croats in BiH, but also us in Croatia in which some high-ranking members of the SDA and politicians in BiH disputed the right of Croats to build the Pelješki Bridge and to connect the queen country and Dubrovnik with the queen of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121768	Answer, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121769	Well, thank you very much, thank you very much, very much for saying that because exactly what we're being accused of is those Bosniak politicians, which is to interfere with other countries' internal political affairs. So the Peljeski bridge is in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia has come out more to meet BiH than it should because it has raised it, and it has raised the price, to 55 m, so that huge ships can sail to Neum, which will never sail to Neum and that has raised the cost, only to keep Croatia from good neighbourly relations with BiH. In return, we receive attacks, threats, lawsuits, courts, etc. We are receiving one debate and assault both verbal and all other attacks on Croatian officials, including the president, on a very unfortunately one primitive level. And that's what's not good, but her responsibility to us, the responsibility for such a policy, is on Bosniak political representatives, I'm afraid it's going to come back to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121770	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. President. Ragug, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121771	Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, although it is unequivocal that dialogue among the peoples of BiH is crucial for the future of BiH, it is important to speak realistically about the problems facing BiH and especially the Croatian people in BiH. In this sense, it is important to understand today's political context in BiH and compare it, perhaps with some similar ones, today there have been a number of such links with the period of war in BiH. About today, Croats are in a political sense somewhere like during the BiH war in the second half of 1993. In that second half of 1993, after the completely dying lines of conflict between the BiH Army and the Republika Srpska Army, 260 troops of the BiH Army directed their offensive actions towards 40,000 members of the HVO. It then directly intervened in the border areas of BiH and several thousand HVO members, which was later interpreted as an aggression against BiH. And what would happen if these several thousand members of the HVO had not been involved in that period with threats to sanctions by the UN Security Council? So it would happen, there would be an even greater persecution of the Croatian population in BiH. Today, in a similar way, by interpreting the reactions of former high representatives, we accept the logic that it is necessary to approve politically the continuation of political violence against the Croatian people in BiH. It is a completely natural reaction that three former top BiH officials are concerned about their political heritage left in BiH and they have nothing to boast about. I said today that it is crucial for the current problems in BiH to understand a 2000 verdict on the constitutionality of the people in the entire BiH area, which was later abused by senior representatives in a way that forced the 111 amendments to the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska entities into political life. It is less known that for 23 years, the Dayton BiH High Representatives in BiH imposed... The law and regulation, 249 outside of the 99 appointments and that with such an approach they knew what they were doing, were also protected that neither the BiH constitutional court nor any international judicial institution could discuss their actions and decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why did they need to do that? So it is precisely aware that they have made a series of violations and international rights when they have made these decisions, they have imposed laws in particular when they are biased to do so in favour of one of the people in BiH above all Bosniaks. If they hadn't done that, we wouldn't have had this debate at the Croatian Parliament today. It should also be understood that the resistance to implement the verdict in the Ljubic case is precisely aimed at the political heritage of high representatives in BiH, and as I said, so Alia Izetbegovic's political heritage to create Muslim BiH in a certain part of BiH territory. Now these doubts we are talking about today whether Croatia is interfering with this debate, with initiatives at European level in BiH's internal affairs. All countries of interest are involved in BiH's internal issues, and this is part of the diplomatic tradition, so the former Yugoslavia's space after the war in the former BiH area. Croatia is the least unfortunately doing so and therefore we have the consequences we are talking about today. It's perfectly legitimate in BiH's political life to hear from Bakir Izetbegovic that his father left BiH in amannet Erdogan or neo-Osmanist Turkey. It is perfectly legitimate to hear that on the occasion of a recent official visit by the representatives of the Wahhabi monarchy of Saudi Arabia, she made a significant contribution to BiH's development. It's completely legitimate to listen to how... Iran has its influence in BiH over a number of institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what Russia does. That's what all the other countries do. What we hear is that Croatia should therefore not advocate the rule of law in BiH, so it is nothing more than a less valuable complex that a number of colleagues show today in the debate in the Croatian Parliament over the problems of the Croatian people in BiH. In order for us to get out of this complex less value, we will need and the two of us, so Mr. Ljubic and I refrain from grades, opportunities in the Republic and we understand because many of these opportunities are not clear to us, we understand a part of the well-intentioned colleagues who are not informed by certain facts. But what grieves that some who are informed show impatience, hatred and who approve of the violence committed against the Croatian people in BiH. It is outrageous to hear the same thesis that we Croats in BiH heard in 1993 during the implementation of Operation Neretva '93. So just mentioned Zeljko Komsic these days says that Croats from central Bosnia are in danger and that these discussions held in the political public of the Republic of Croatia are putting them at risk. So who can put them in danger? Does he mean his voters? So those who have doubts whether Zeljko Komisic is legitimate, legal, just let them ask themselves, let them check the facts of the election law in BiH was imposed by the high representative. Under the election law, those objecting to Mr. Covic was elected Croatian member of the presidency and under the same law, Mr. Komsic was imposed on Croats in BiH on several occasions. Those who do not distinguish these two concepts "chosen" and "imposed" have problems with correctness towards the Croats of BiH, and it would be high time to understand that their incorrectness should be corrected. The Croats in BiH do not expect any help from anyone, nor do they think that someone is obliged to do something to us. Those who do not see their future in our fate in terms of the challenge of political stability, peace, uncertainty that can reflect Croatia's position in its immediate neighbourhood in BiH, certainly are neither our co-workers nor those who can contribute to a more responsible relationship between the Republic of BiH. The Croatian people in BiH, of course, will appreciate with gratitude all those who are well-intentioned within their competences all those issues, especially at international level, that can help resolve the invisible political position of the Croatian people in BiH. So is it not enough to remind that in 2001 a Croatian member of the Jelavić presidency was removed, that not in 2005 a Croatian member of the Covic presidency, that the Bosniaks chose Komsic on three occasions in 2006 and in 2018, which meant the appointment of Croatian diplomats. So we are being denied communication with the international diplomatic public. By imposing the election of Komsic as a Croatian presidency member, we are prevented from communicating with the public, with the political public in BiH when we are threatened to have a radio-television channel in Croatian, we are prevented from communicating with the correct work of Bosniaks who surely understand that what is happening to Croats is not in their favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121772	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first one has Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121773	Dear counterpart Raguž, you mentioned today's speakers who mentioned that Croatia should not interfere with BiH's internal issues. Whoever says so, whoever sends such a message from this House, not only does he not want BiH well, but he does not want good for Croatia, because there are no two people, there is only one people, the Croatian people, and in Croatia and BiH, it is our simply duty to talk about it, to worry about it, to take care of this unique people, about our people. Everyone else gets involved in these things, everybody else imposes something, we're the only ones who should be quiet, until when? '91. This has been shown, shown today in sports results mentioned by my colleague Ljubica. It's not about two peoples, it's not about two countries just in that sense, it's one people, the Croatian people, and if we're not going to talk about it here, who will? The Croatian Parliament exists for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121774	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121775	So, as I said and as you pointed out, we are about to say that we should encourage dialogue in BiH with all those who appreciate that political stability, peace in BiH will depend precisely on dialogue, but also on one correct, precise attitude of the Republic of Croatia towards the situation in which the Croatian people are in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121776	Thank you. Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121777	I thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Raguž, we have heard several times today that Komsic has been elected under the same law as Covic, and you have mentioned that it is true that under the same law it is possible to elect a legal and legitimate representative of the Croatian people but Komsic has been imposed and not chosen to prove that this law and unconstitutional law has never been passed in the BiH Parliament by which Dayton and prescribed it has already been imposed by the OHR. Under the same law chosen by Covic, Komsic and against the law, which is an argument against the law and not an argument for the law and what may be important, our colleague also mentioned that Komsic was not imposed for the third time simply because he could not run three times in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121778	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121779	Not only when it comes to the election of a Croatian member of the presidency, but the attempt to impose representatives on the Croatian people took place and took place in BiH's political life in several cycles. And during the founding of the Alliance government, the government and the platform, during the appointment and the president of the Federation of BiH. So we need to understand that it is not about incidents, that we do not need to enter into the debates on this matter details that are irrelevant, it is about one systematic policy of denying the rights of Croats to have their political representatives in BiH's political life, the right to political representation which BiH has practiced in some worse times during the Ottoman occupation, the Austrian occupation of BiH, and the wonder that today there are even followers of such ambitions to deny political representation in modern BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121780	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If a more national community or state wants to survive and develop, then these nations must primarily trust each other and have a high level of cooperation. The key question is how to achieve and increase the level of trust in BiH after all that has happened there? That the Germans, the French, the English and the rest of the peoples of Western Europe were after II. svt. The war constantly dealt with II, I. St. With war and even deeper into the past, nothing would have happened to the EU project. Why am I saying that? Because the forces and forces within BiH are, above all, those who come out of the political leadership of all three peoples but also the forces between the people's environment, above all, the great forces such that BiH andrićev, as a matter of fact, wants to keep the bloody streets of the Balkans and Europe. We know what BiH was during history and should draw conclusions from that. A question arises whose interests are being carried out by political structures, political representatives of the three peoples in BiH from Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs. If we go into a more detailed analysis then we'll see that they're the least concerned with the interests of their peoples, the good, the peace, the future, the cooperation and they're busy with each other. But right now, I say here is a lot of times said the Dayton Agreement is a kind of BiH Constitution and it is the basis for that state and relations between the three peoples who live there. It clearly states that all three nations are constituent nations but it has proved that the consistency of Croats in BiH remained only on paper. Why she remained on the paper should first and foremost ask representatives, political representatives of the Croats in BiH and the political structures that led Croatia from its draft to today. So, what are the causes of the poor situation in BiH and thus the position of the Croatian people there? First, it should be said that all three people in BiH are led by people of war and not by people of peace and as such until they change in BiH they will not be able to expect a positive turn. You see, at one point, Izetbegovic calls on Turkey, Dodik Russia, Covic the West and each other's food so on nationalisms as well as on their partners they count on from the world. That way BiH can't survive. We have there in political life a kind of policy that is called management of nationalisms as if they throw balls at each other when they need them in their entity during elections or some other means important events and above all that. Furthermore, according to such political structures in BiH, it is not the EU's answer, you can see that it was the EU's answer and the EU's answer to the problem of BiH, then BiH should join the EU before Croatia. I said that five years ago at a rally in Sarajevo. But you see simply that's not the case. So they don't care to come in, to approach standards. Why? If BiH had joined the EU, then the political structures led by the three peoples in BiH would be most likely deposed and they do not want it. Furthermore, strong geopolitical interests of Turkey, Russia and the West towards BiH have been expressed, and the thing is that political representatives of all three nations must turn more to each other because it is the only recipe for a better future. When we look not only at the Croatian people of the least in BiH and the other two people are simply unhappy. Why? Because they're moving out of BiH and they're threatened. Something more emigrated by the Croats, why? Because Croatians have two passports and they are EU citizens at the same time. The moment the working regime is liberalised, and this is already happening, there will be a strong outflow of labour from the Bosniak and Serb Corps. This vacuum cleaner from Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria, will suck up most of the labor force and this space around which you see each other now will bleed with each other and the other with others will become increasingly empty. But what is on the scene and we see these are migrations from the east and from the south, from Africa, can lead to a simple change in BiH's space completely or homogenised. We don't know yet, but we'll see about that. But the key question is how to restore trust, co-operation and faith in co-existence in BiH. I repeat, it will not be possible to do so by people who are means, who are from war, who have dealt with crime and whom their own people do not believe. As far as this Declaration is concerned, the only positive thing to talk about is the Croats in BiH. We know that the Declaration itself will not solve the difficult situation of Croats in BiH. Well, anyway, she's at least 15, 20 years late. Why didn't this declaration come to Parliament before? On the other hand, how can Croatia help the Croats in BiH and the whole of BiH? So we see that the Croatian state is weak, here listens to other people's interests. Therefore, when this strong state becomes a modern state and it can only be a new structure, new political structures and new people who will come to Croatia, then we can help more and more Croatian people in BiH, as well as the whole of BiH, means all three peoples, because there will be no progress if there is any doubt, if there is an untrue, unopened approach there cannot be developed. To understand BiH, living there is not enough to read books, newspapers or portals. You either have to be born there or you've spent one part of your life. I was born there, finished primary school, high school, and I understand what I'm talking about. And who, in fact, represents Croats in BiH or is fighting for their interests, so it does more or less the same political structure, only new people appear. And it's always from the same geographical space, when you saw representatives of the Croats from Central Bosnia and Herzegovina in a significant number, you didn't see them, there's no open conversation and there's no meaning, there's no happiness. I know how to communicate with these people, they don't have enough confidence in the representatives of the Croatian people, let alone the Bosniaks or Serbs. Therefore, this is a big deal but we must speak openly of it both according to the representatives of the Croats in BiH and towards representatives of the Bosniak and Serb peoples in BiH. National minorities in Croatia can be a good bridge for the development of co-operation, so the Bosniak minority here and Serbian means for a new bridge and a new page in BiH's development. BiH must remain sovereign, it must be stable although everything seems to be simply to remain a powder keg, to remain for the promotion of large forces etc., etc. It must not remain a poor woman, Croatia's engagement must be open, frankly, it must not go in this direction to support political structures that, some of which are criminal, it cannot. So it is only to the shame of the Croatian people, we must talk very openly about it. As long as it doesn't happen, there won't be any luck in BiH. And that is why I welcome from this place all of the Croats in BiH especially mine in Central Bosnia, but I welcome all BiH citizens and finally to elect all three peoples to new political structures and people who will lead them towards the future, not the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121782	Thank you, you have two replicas, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121783	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Lovrinović, since you are an economist, this has moved me to replicate you. So, what is the guarantee of political stability, economic stability? I've heard here today that there are many interests of the East, the West. I like this declaration best when it says that the Republic of Croatia needs to invest. Economic interest is a good interest, let all who have interests in BiH invest, let them create jobs, so you will see very soon how people will agree on their own. While people don't have bread, while people don't have jobs, while people are hard to deal with, they're easily manipulated, it's always shown in history, it shows today. So people's jobs, people's bread, standards, and it'll all come out on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121784	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121785	However, my colleague, Žagar, I fully agree, as it has begun, I keep saying it, the EU, and that everyone is benefiting from it. If Croatia is to understand, BiH is the most important external trade partner in Croatia, it is the only country we have in the foreign trade surplus. Therefore, this capillary integration with BiH, with the parts where our people live, but also with others, so this is not about leading a nationalist economic policy towards BiH. These nations will not be asked about the past, about religious differences and the rest if they live better, they should just turn these issues around, but the political structures that all three peoples lead, they do not allow it. Why? Because they lose control, control, lose their power, you can't hire a cleaning lady in any nation, and that boss doesn't say he can or can't. So, economic investment, entrepreneurship will bring people together from all three nations to cooperate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121786	Thank you, Mr. Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121787	As a Croat from Central Bosnia, you should not use such statements to amnesty political violence against the Croatian people in BiH when you say that representatives of Bosniaks and Serbs will trust political representatives of Croats when the Croatian people do not trust them. Your colleague Lovrinovic has been denied the election of all these years after the first democratic elections in 1990. I believe that you just said it in the heat of the debate, but don't make such a sense, it's not good, and especially not that it doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121788	Thank you very much. Answer, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121789	Dear colleague Ragug, what I said, I said, not even in the heat has already been thought about. So, I wasn't just talking about the Croatian people, and in all three peoples their people in the elections, that's how it is. You know, when a stop comes, people succumb to fear, then they bow to what it is because they don't have other options. However, there is no happiness in all three peoples as they are led by the people and parties, the political structures that have led them so far, this will go hard in BiH. Croatia is going hard, but it will have to come to this because there will be no change. So, we need to get rid of such a single hug so that I don't say the political violence of parties that have been so far, to open up space to all people, and especially to economic cooperation because it opens up mutual trust, and everything else is known. I made it very clear that the Croatian people are constitutional, strategic Our most important country is BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121790	Thank you very much, let's move forward with the debate, Mr. Glasnović, and I apologize Mr. Glasnović, and we have also had a proposal from Mr. Ljubic, I apologize. I apologize to Mr. Glasnović and Ljubic too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121791	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the big respect I'm following up on this debate and I can tell you that different thesis has been heard here, and I'm sure it will contribute to this issue to solve it. However, some of the thesis that has been brought here with their logic, so I have to pollemize. In fact, the logic that in BiH everything would be different to change political elites does not mean that the people should actually be changed. In fact, 23 years after Dayton, the nations have chosen to say similar political elites and vote in a similar way, i.e. they vote nationalally. This means that this arrangement in Bosnia and Herzegovina actually induces and practically dictates the behaviour of political elites. At a meeting with representatives of the European Parliament a few years ago, I said that in Bosnia and Herzegovina you would bring in the Swedish or Finnishs, after 5 years their political representatives would behave like these, representatives of Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks, and that only says that the constitutional position and the international issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not resolved. When it is settled, and the international institutions point to that, we point to that, then we will certainly come to an opportunity that one better inside folk pluralism through all three, therefore, constitutive peoples. What I want to point out here and this is not, therefore, these are not the thesis of representatives of political Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will only quote you a few parameters from the European Parliament's resolution. So the February 6th 2014 resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress says: I welcome the six points of the agreement reached in Brussels on 01 June 2013, and regrets that the centralist forces are obstructing its implementation, and stresses that it is important to follow the principle of federalism and legitimate representation to ensure BiH's path in the European Union. So, exactly the principles of federalism, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is not based today on the principles of federalism, so there is no position that the position of Croats is not equal to the Constitution of the social two peoples, and in particular the electoral law has further made it possible for the Croats to make those solutions that have been legitimate in Dayton through the consensual constitutional and legal engagements. Furthermore, the European Parliament's resolution of 2017 continues, so it is called on the Constitutional Court Decision, paragraph 17, to stress the importance of the recent Constitutional Court Decision on the principle of constitutionality and equality of the three peoples to elect their legal political representatives on the basis of justified and proportionate representation in the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is unfair, it is unfair, it is actually better to say that it is better to accuse Croatian representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the situation in which we are when we are here, therefore, the European Parliament's resolution points to the problem. So it's just not even justified. Or further, point 18 of the resolution says: it expresses concern that different legal standards apply in the processing of war crimes cases, and the truth that they apply, on the one hand, stricter, on the other hand, lighter laws. And point 37, calls, quotes: "The competent authorities to guarantee media pluralism and ensure the broadcasting of programmes in all official languages in BiH." So these are, therefore, the findings of the European Parliament, and they are in some way, in a mild form, diplomatic form if you want to, but 'that someone does not understand this one, introduced into this resolution. And the other thing, it does not say that only one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one part of the Croats is represented. Col. Lovrinović, in the current meeting of the Federation President, is a Bosnian from Busovaca, Central Bosnia, president of the House of the People of the Federation of Kiseljak, Minister of Defence, one of the three in the Council... is from the Knights, the minister of spatial planning is from Zepč, the minister of justice in the Government of the Federation of Posavina, therefore, let's not send out from here messages that will generate divisions within the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as counterpart Raguž said, all elections show that Croatian representatives who receive legitimacy, which are representatives of the Croatian National Assembly, the truth of HDZ BiH is the most numerous, have approximately equal support in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121792	Yes, the replica of Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121793	Dear fellow Ljubic. I didn't even think about politics at the time, but as far as I know, I've heard about you, you're in that policy all the time, right? And my message is clear to you, therefore, as representatives, you will never see that you are wrong, but the people are wrong, or those who point fingers at you are wrong, right? And that's the seduction of politics, the intoxication of politics that you just never realize your mistake. I am the last person to share the Croatian people with his debates, and you may have noticed that by now, if you haven't, your problem is that you say so. But obviously, what I've been saying hurts you, but until we start talking like this, openly, and wondering about the right questions and pointing our finger at the real problems, we won't homogenize the Croatian people and we won't make ways of co-operation with other peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121794	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121795	So I'm going back to that thesis, so the people keep choosing certain political elites, and they're going to choose everything until Bosnia and Herzegovina is formed in a way that avoids all fears, and the best way to keep the fewest people out of fear. I will now tell you honestly, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the processes and decisions of the people, citizens, voters, manage three fears. On one side, fear of Bosniaks, maybe they'll lose a country in which only... The refuge, fear or concern of Serbs that they can lose an entity because they believe they have resolved their own, national issue with the entity of Republika Srpska, the fear of Croats who are justified in losing total political subjectivity and rights to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in fact the path is to reach a solution,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the electoral law, that every nation can be represented by its legitimate political representatives, and then agree on legitimate political representatives to come to a constitutional solution that will make Bosnia and Herzegovina so functional and manageable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121796	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121797	Dear Minister, colleagues. Here, we all know that BiH has the most complex political system in the world, which I know, I don't know of any other such system. Here's when you came down Machiavelli, he would become Mickey Mouse, because down there is a war of course by other means and it's obvious, and all these discussions must come down to one thing, which is the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 05.05.2017. when the constitutional crisis was I submitted 5 requests, I spoke to the government yesterday, it was signed by one of the demands, it is nice to see here from Busic here, it was one to call a plenary session on the position of Croats in BiH and the diaspora. It's signed, here we are today. Better late than never. We know what Croatia has to do with the Croats of BiH, we heard this 10 times today, we know about the Washington Agreement, we know about the Dayton Agreement, we know that the Croats are victims of political engineering, therefore the declaration is in place. But he would talk about other things. I mentioned today three musketeers, Ashdown, Karl Bilt and this third musketeer, they're not important at all, they're second-rate officials who couldn't find BiH on the geographical map. They're totally irrelevant and we're partly to blame for it. You have here, sitting characters here who didn't even know there were Croats in BiH, terrifying. That historical ignorance and illiteracy. They're sitting right here. Genetic anarchists and former communists and other characters, I won't say a word now that we all know. Trebin's diocese is older than the Zagreb diocese. Trebin diocese, older. Who knows about that? He'd talk a little bit here about the genealogy of war because we're losing ourselves all the time after these discussions and it hasn't come to an eye on how it is and where this war started. We spoke today of course, village flat. The village straight, the first Croatian victims. But the first violation of BiH's territorial integrity took place in the 7th month. '91. Mr. When the Chetniks of Savo Krajina moved to... The municipality of Grahovo, burned down the houses and took the Croats hostage to Knin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is this document and you know the answer of the BiH MUP? There's nothing we can do, total impotence and that's it. We remember then, of course, the village of Ravna, a referendum where the Croats saved BiH, we remember that agreement that rejected Ali Izetbegovic by which 48% of the territory would get Serbs and today have 49%. Here are the Croats, we remember Herceg-Bosnia, the fall of Vukovar, we remember the Croats from BiH who defended Vukovar, who were on Croatian battlefields in '91. A year and tens of millions of dollars coming here from Croats outside BiH. It didn't bother me then, with some of these characters right here, that they were getting money from those Ustashas and that the Ustashas were defending their territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, it didn't bother them and now they're being disturbed by the Croats of BiH. Great salon strategists, there aren't many of them here I see today, here they slipped somewhere. Then we move on, we have to move on. So, we have victims in BiH, more than 100,000 dead, and that's the tragedy, this great tragedy that could have been prevented in '91. Sir, but she didn't stop herself. You remember this isn't our war. More than 50% of these, almost 50% are Bosniak civilians. That's right, and why was that? Because... disarmed the same time it was disarmed here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial defence and all weapons went to the majority, where the majority, the Serb people in BiH, are also a historical fact until '92. M. 3rd month. Serbia was divided by JNA, a large Serb army divided 800,000 pipes by SDS members and we were again bare-handed and underpants over our knees, ready, but the Croats were more ready than some other characters now. But I am concerned about one other thing, the documents are very relevant because this war is still being waged, this war is being waged by other means, every day Croatia is being attacked in media space, another war is being fought across other areas, we see it every day. Archives, where are the archives, what's in the archives... All Mujahadins came to BiH via Croatia, that through Croatia, who normally would arm enemies, we know of half a million Bosniaks, most of whom were refugees here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know about the weaponry and it's a total lie that the Croats started the war down with the Bosniaks, he started at the local level, we still don't have official history II. svt. The war, let alone this war and it must be cleared up. Now I'm going to read you a document from the BiH Army's military wing, which doesn't interest our former SIS officers because they were chasing adulterers and coffee smugglers and how did our KOS, counterintelligence service, work? Here's a document from the BiH Army Military Wing in '94, 7 months. After the signing of the Washington Agreement, still these operatives are here, this is a terrifying document. It comes from Tuzla 53 participants, a chamber from Tuzla and they have their people here, here's what it says here? The scroll, their agent, this writes, ND, was the head of the Croatian Air Force squadron at Ples, their associate fully understood what the Sweeter asked him to do, is also ready to cooperate, which will expand when the next contact is met. They had a whole network in Croatia, worse than Zagreb to the military police in Split and nothing, what we did here then, and the moles are still here. If we don't talk about other heads, we don't actually need a fifth column because we have it here in this former... The communists, the Yugoslavs, they're already here with us, we've known since when, since '45. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is part of it, they're part of that project. What about our media strategy on BiH? That's why most Croats in Croatia have never heard of the village of Brisevo, the village of Trusini, Uzdol, 80% of Serbs do not know that Srebrenica happened. That's how their media works. You have no official history at all, no books in Serbia about this past war on BiH territory. That's where I'm gonna keep going. We were in charge of the Croatian people in BiH because the HVO, I mentioned yesterday, has preserved the borders of the current Republic of Croatia. When the war stopped, 51% of the current Federation's territories also held Croatian forces. Please, Mr. Shuker, 50 pushups, we're talking here. We should be here 51% held by Croatian forces President Tudjman never spoke of, say, HV, the HVO of the same force of 23,000 members of the Croatian forces last, the last year of the war 11,000 you were members of the HVO. Which you're margellinized today. Why are we here today? We must implement these measures to the end, for this law.../incomprehensible/... HVO, for HVO 2019 and retroactive measures. I am glad that there is Mr. Milas from the central office because they improved 17.5% they improved support for the Croats of BiH, it is also too little, because I said yesterday the HVO gets less than 1% and it stings some characters. That 1% injures the character of the juzomboids that the Croats down there get 1% frightening. This means who's talking about the cataster, most of the catasters in BiH have been a Croatian cataster for centuries, and there all the Catholic churches were mosques built on the foundations of Catholic churches. We have to stick together this declaration on engineering that's been seen from the moon, but these other problems we have to solve for the Croats to survive down there, where they've been for centuries. This is just a mere story, someone mentioned here a trade exchange, we are EUR 100 million in plus with the Croats in BiH. I'm appealing to you, I don't know how to get to these heads here there's no Mr. Stazic here who ironed me here earlier, I think we went there to stay away from another one of these... /incomprehensible/... in the living room, but I hope we find a consensus here and for Croatia and all along with Christ against the Communists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121798	You have one replica of Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121799	Dear colleague Glasnović, here is my pleasure to listen to you and I am glad you emphasized that part of Croatian history that is not spoken of in the Croatian Parliament. That you mentioned the HVO, that you mentioned that they are also responsible for Croatia being preserved today within these borders. And because of its participation in the defence of Croatian spaces in BiH, but also because of participation in the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, and today we all ignore it. And what we are really talking about today and easily about the Croats in BiH is ignoring their great role in the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia, and you have made it very clear that they are also their own, by their struggle and defence of Croatian space in Bosnia and have preserved the borders of our Croatia together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121800	Okay, thank you. I didn't see any response, so you agree and there isn't any, this one goes on with individual debates, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121801	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, ministers. BiH is very important for Croatia's fate as a whole and in some ways it could be like a sort of marriage partner, our better half that promotes us in any way. Bosnia and Herzegovina and I have the longest land border, there live people whose language we understand, and among other things, according to the existing Constitution of the Croatian people's homelands. If we were to use the words of Ante Starčević, father of the homeland, in Bosnia lives the cleanest and most unblemished part of our people who can manage without us, rather than us without him. For Starčević, the life of people in BiH was more important and famous than the life of Parisian proletaries and German wise men, and the state of that people is more useful and necessary for Croats than Western civilizations that disturbs the mind, poisons the heart and kills our lives. And Ante Starcevic not only said so, but he did so, so he couldn't think of the Germans to the extent that he didn't even want to drink beer, and when he died, he didn't want to bury himself in Zagreb where he prevailed over the German language of the Croatian, which he thought was a destitute town, so he asked them to take him to the village of Szetina and bury him there because it was a more appropriate place for him, but, let's say, Mirogoj. This is very interesting to compare such thinking with the thinking of today’s Croatian politicians who go to Germany and some other countries in Belgium for the opinion of what the Croatian people should do in their own country. However, here it is very important to add that Ante Starcevic opposed any division of the peoples in Croatia and BiH on a religious basis, on the clerical line by which the Catholic is a Croat, the Orthodox is a Serb, and the Muslim is Bosnjak. Everything is accompanied by a raw nationalist rhetoric that not only excludes the other faith, but wants to permanently eliminate it from the common space. Ante Starcevic was among the Croatian politicians in the 19th century the greatest anti-cleric because he believed that churches culturally replaced the Croatian people, served as foreign oppressors of Croatia, and that the religious division of Croats into Catholics, Croatian peoples to Catholics, Muslims and Orthodox ones favoured the spread of national divisions. For Anta Starčević, it was good Christians who were essentially not following their clergy, and his basic idea was God and Croats, not Catholics and Croats. A similar trail later came from the other great politician of the Croatian people, Stjepan Radic. Stjepan Radić, who always said hello to the crowd: “Praise Jesus and Mary, you priests down there. ” The basic thought, therefore, was that by avoiding divisions we all work together for our people and country, and as anyone will be called and as anyone will declare himself, let him be pleased, because any discrepancies between us, sustains and strengthens the external centres of power. And he said that both Serbs and Jews and Roma are welcome in Croatia because, among other things, he said that the hungry and frozen Serb is exactly the same as the Croatian. He said, quote: "Let us also be declared hotnots, let each be called by his own special name, and only that we all be free and happy." So he said true patriot, not false patriot. That's what a man with a country in his heart said, not a man with a hand on his heart, and a heart in Brussels. And yes, they would have been amazed by the fact that the mother of Ante Starčević herself was a Orthodox religion, but he felt no less of Croatia, but, in fact, they called him the father of the homeland and built him a home in the center of Zagreb. And you don't have to doubt at all that the small-minded people, the top Croatian politicians, Ante Starčević, called him a rebel, a Gentile, an antichrist and a man who works against God, people and church, but despite all this, he is rightly recognized as the greatest Croatian politician whose bust stands at the entrance to this hall and whose character adorns the largest Croatian coin in circulation, the one of 1000 kn. And it would be very interesting to know how today's majority, today's government, today's HDZ MPs would talk about Anti Starcevic if they could meet him in person. I'm kind of thinking, I'm opening up to myself, that in the Living Wall with Anta Starčević we would better agree than Mr Ljubic and Mr Plenkovic, because our opinion that the citizens of Croatia, any BiH, should join together and agree on their own fate without foreign interference. Instead of religious-nationalist concepts and identities, we should turn to the identity of a better life, a higher standard and a better future. BiH residents should turn to a sustainable economy without falling into a trap of subordination towards foreign banks and corporations such as the current Croatian governments. They should turn to their own sovereignty, not EU and NATO policies that do not offer solutions, and that they have not brought them to Croatia, BiH will not bring them either. It is enough to see a rebellion spreading all over Europe regardless of who belongs to which nation and which religion it grows. For BiH, it would be important to reject the concepts of dominating one another over another, especially the secession of territories. On this side, of course, it is primarily necessary to reject the ideology of Greater Serbia that has caused aggression and war in BiH. Republika Srpska needs to be dismantled and detronized by a team currently leading it because it still thinks Ratko Mladic is something positive, and that in Srebrenica and many other places there has been no genocide over BiH residents. And yes, that the Croats could have made their own decision in 1995. HV would have won Banja Luka, a large Serb aggressor would have been defeated, and Bosnia today would have been a peaceful and stable country, far more prosperous than it is. But we can primarily thank the United States that banned Banja Luka from winning and said they would bomb Croatia if we did. Also, the hypocritical policies of Great Britain and France, but unfortunately part of the HDZ policy that negotiated with Slobodan Milosevic, created Herceg Bosnia, and today in a coalition with the great Serb Miroslav Dodik. And the question is, what do we get with this coalition? What's the point of this policy? Is it only that Greater Serbia should be 90km away from Zagreb? Thank you very much. I'll continue in the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121802	Thank you very much, sir. You have one replica, Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I agree with most of your debate, especially about Ante Starčević. What I regret is that in some way you underestimated the role of the Catholic Church for the Croats in BiH and did not mention Fr. Didak Bundic who threw himself at work which should at least be declared a living wall, and all of us, of course, often talk about hungry children, he saved 17,000 children from Herzegovina and did not look at religion, nation and sent them to Slavonia, so that the role of the Catholic Church, especially in the Franciscans in BiH, is immeasurable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121804	Answer freely, Mr. Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121805	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sladolev, I agree that the role of Franciscans is immeasurable and also Franciscans are actually much longer in Bosnia, practically since the beginning of the Ottoman conquest, present in the BiH and have played a very important role. This clerical one, let's say the rhetoric I spoke of, unfortunately, was created only in late '19. St. and early '20s. St. and unfortunately it was created in Bosnia which was a protectorate, and we see that today, is the same condition, so the BIH was a protectorate and remained a protectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121806	Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121807	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the State Secretary, the Secretary of State with an associate. For 9 hours, how long has the debate on the declaration of the position of the Croatian people in the BIH from what we can read during this debate, that it is on the side of the opposition and... first of all, the question whether and why the Croatian Parliament is delivering a special declaration showing the situation of the political situation in the neighbouring country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can be a legitimate question and it is legitimate, n on the other hand when we read the very declaration, then we will see that in the preamble of this declaration, it binds itself to 4 strategic documents, and above all to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which primarily the Assembly requires that obligation of permanent care and protection of our countrymen in the world, and especially in the BIH. And that is defined by the Constitution itself. Ten. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, defined by the strategy in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the law on relations with Croats outside Croatia and the National Security Strategy. In preparation for this debate, I read the photographs, the adoption of these 3 last documents except the Constitution, and in all these discussions that the MPs at the time presented, during the adoption of these documents, almost entirely coincided with our debate today. So, even before, during the debate on these documents, votes were heard on the one hand about the harmfulness that can, by bringing these documents, cause our countrymen, to some extent justifiably, to worry about the situation of Croats in the BIH. I believe that this strategy is necessary and right now, this declaration that the Croatian Parliament is manifesting itself about it. It is intended for what he said this morning, on behalf of the promoter, counterpart Ljubic, above all for our countrymen in the BIH, is primarily intended for Croatian politics, those factors in Croatian politics that conduct Croatian foreign policy. It is intended for all others, two other peoples of Bosniaks and Serbs, in which we clearly want to show Croatia's position when it comes to the position of Croats in the BiH, but it is also a kind of indicator of the Croatian state's consciousness and of the situation of Croats in the BiH and international politicians, who at EU level, determine, decide, participate in solving problems in the BIH. It is therefore perfectly legitimate for the Croatian Parliament to produce one of these declarations, which will declare the position of Croats. And what this declaration wants, it's looking for, it's on the trail of documents that are on the basis of which it was created by a bih, with two entities. This declaration is primarily wanted and requested by the Croatian people in the BIH to be a political people, this means that primarily in all bodies to be owned by counties or cantons through entities, to the parliamentary assembly of the BIH and the presidency of the BIH, legitimate representatives of the Croatian people will be the ones who will elect the Croatian people in the BIH. And that's something we hold to the beginning of any debate on the equality and consistency of Croats in the BIH. I have already quoted in the BIH, on behalf of the HDZ Club, not particularly before the general elections. who was talking about the election in BIH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, here, for this individual debate of mine, let me read 3 by myself, very important quotes and thoughts that some politicians and dignitaries in the BIH are coming and also members of the Bosniak people have said about the need for what we here in the Croatian Parliament, and I believe the very large majority of the Croatian people advocate and this is this electoral equality and legitimacy in representing the Croatian people in the BIH. In 2006, when Zeljko Komsic was first elected in an unspecial debate in the election game, he... Then he said the following, that Komsic's choice by Bosniaks is the main reason for Croatians' dissatisfaction with the BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He made it very clear that the BIH is not based on civic but ethical representation. If Bosniaks choose Bosniak representatives, Serbian, then I think it is not fair for the Croats to have someone choose their representative for them, I think it would be dangerous for BiH and that it will pollute BiH for the Croats, so these are the words of Haris Silajdzic in 2006. Reis-ulema Hussein Kavazovic, the great Mufti of the Islamic Community in BiH... The October 7th general elections in BiH on the issue of the Vecernje List of Fears of Croats since more Bosniaks will be elected by representatives in the Kavazovic government, he replied that the constitution must be respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where representatives are scheduled to choose to protect collective interests, we do, but it cannot be at the expense of the equality of the people and of all citizens on every inch of BiH. I do not consider it good, Hussein Kavazovic says that members of one nation choose representatives from another people wherever equality is in the representation of the people in the institutions of power, the constitution is set and guaranteed. And in the end, I will read the third quote of Dean of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Sarajevo... who said it is uncultural and unfair for Bosniaks to impose Croatia's Zeljko Komsic on the BiH presidency by assessing that the dissatisfaction of Croats with this political move is fully justified, so the media in BiH is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He continues to speak, Bosniaks know and need to know that it is not fair for those Croats to be elected by a member of the presidency i.e. their representative. It says that move is pointless and I'd say uncultured. He said that the protests and dissatisfaction of Croats are justified against the imposition of the prodigal politician of Croatian roots, Zeljko Komsic, as a member of the state summit. Dissatisfaction, he said, was absolutely justified, but the situation could and should have been resolved. Croatians must know that the amendment to the election law will not be the basis for the establishment of a third entity, as the Bosniaks consider it. In his opinion, the Komsic case represents one big political... made by people who were politically illiterate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's perfectly normal for Croats to have a man they think is their representative no matter what the Constitution says. If you have a moral attitude, then let everyone choose their own representative. So these quotes clearly show that in BiH there is a very large part of the Bosniak community the voice of reason which supports what this Croatian Parliament intends to bring with this declaration. Therefore, it is strange to me that some representatives, politicians in Croatia can at all doubt this declaration, it may be partly and modified, perhaps amendments and accepted, but above all show the maturity of this Assembly and this 9th convening Croatian Parliament if we would respect such a declaration by respecting those amendments that are in the spirit of this tradition, to adopt these declarations and thus send the biggest message to our countrymen in BiH that the Croatian State, if you will and its largest representative body, has a clear view of protection and of the fast and position of our countrymen in the Republic of Croatia. It is strange for me when some of our colleagues here in the Assembly point out three top BiH commissioners who, in their own letter, have in a certain way resented the Croatian Parliament for mixing internal political opportunities and things in BiH with this declaration. But I would also mention then Miroslav Lajcak, who was also one of the Commissioners who shares a different opinion and tells the Croats that it is necessary to ensure legitimacy for them to choose their own representative and, ultimately, Federica Mogherini said it is necessary and expects an amendment to electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121808	Thank you. Thank you very much. There's no replica. Let's move on. Mr. Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121809	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of State, the State Secretary with an associate, a colleague of my colleagues. In front of us today is a document I sincerely hope will receive broad support from all of us MPs and send a very clear message of demand and meeting our constitutional and international obligations towards BiH, respectively, towards the Croats in BiH. We have heard already today a long list of resolutions, international contracts and our national acts that oblige us to take special care for our people in BiH and I would like to list some of them and this is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Washington and Dayton Agreements, the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Strategy on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and many others. The relationship towards the Croats in BiH has definitely changed for 2 years, and this is evident from numerous visits to the highest state summit of the neighbouring country until a joint session of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH when a European Partnership Treaty is signed as a support on the European path of BiH, and here until today we have a declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. It is our duty for all of us to improve the position of Croats in BiH and to improve the lives of our people through both financial assistance and through scholarships to students who have been here today with us with funds for concrete projects that benefit the Croats in BiH as well as ultimately all those other peoples who live there. It is also a good way to open consulates in Knights and Livn, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Mostar and Sarajevo, the office of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in BiH. What is important to emphasise is that through all the above mentioned Republics, it does not endanger other peoples in BiH but rather seeks to mitigate and help endanger the Croatian people and therefore helps and supports the interest of our people and thus safeguards our national identity. It is important that we are unique in our position, to continue to help the Croatian people in BiH through insisting on the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, which highlights the highest respect for the equality of all three constituent peoples. At no point in history, the Croatian people denied the rights of other peoples, precisely because of the stability and improvement of the BIH. Also at no time did the Croats in BIH, not... I'd be like my country, the country they want to live with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it wasn't for all this fighting to exercise its rights. And we must not give up on the position of our people in the BIH, we must not give up on seeking a solution, we must not give up on the required respect of the Constitutional Court, on the issue of electoral law, until we create assumptions that the Croatian people should be equal with the Bosniak and Serbian people. It is important to stress today that this is not an ageing issue, that we do not interfere in the internal form of the BIH, not to highlight the labels on this declaration, but that all together as a Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, through a single system, we offer a strong message to the Croats in the BIH, that we are with them and that we do not give up. That we all send a message to international communities together, that we currently have an unequal relationship between the peoples in the BIH, because this is ultimately our very important external political priority. Preserve the constitutional position, preservation, peace and stability of the Croatian people in the BIH and all with the aim of repairing the violated constitutional position, preservation, peace and stability in the neighbouring BIH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121810	Thank you, too. Mr. Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121811	Dear fellow... You mentioned the Dayton Agreement mentioning the consistency of those three peoples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the time of Austro-Hungarian times, there have been three constituent nations, Serbs, Croats, Muslims, during Yugoslavia, Serbs, Croats, Muslims. The Dayton Agreement, too. And this declaration and this debate in Parliament is good because it's being talked about and it's finally going to be public. And all the moves the government made over the past two years should have been done long ago. And our final goal is precisely this path towards the EU whose biggest advocates are in the BiH, the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121812	Mr. Mikulić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121813	I thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, so it is very important to talk about the whole problem, it is very important that we speak right here in the Parliament, on behalf of all those who have been here for many years cannot fight for their rights in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121814	Thank you, too. It's Mr. Klisovic's turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I have already listed three key points of our position in the intervention on behalf of the SDP Club. And I must repeat once again that in the SDP and I personally are not satisfied with the position of the Croatian people in the BIH. We think he's unsustainable and that this condition needs to be changed. The equality declared by the Constitution of the BiH was not experienced in the real life of Croats. And there Croatia must be activated through bilateral relations with the BIH, either through intensive consultations and diplomatic action with members of the international community, which are able to create a constructive, political atmosphere for changes in this situation. But we also did not clearly define, which are indicators of all the Croatians' inequalities in the BIH. Very often today in the discussion here, the BiH presidency was mentioned, it is the crown proof that Croats are not equal. Once we get into the whole story of how the election of members of the presidency is agreed, then we realize it's in the Dayton Treaty, Annex 4 which is the Constitution of the BiH. It also says that the Croat, Serb and Bosniak are members of the presidency, but are elected in Republika Srpska, a Serb by all citizens of the entity and Bosniak and Croat are in the Federation by all citizens of the Federation. And what did we get here? We have actually received one compromise that legislation, which would then give legitimacy, each nation chooses its representative and citizen. All citizens of the Federation, all citizens of Republika Srpska, choose Croat or Bosniak on the one hand, or Serb on the other. So two concepts have gone through, and we've got one solution like this that many are not satisfied with. But we must consider that we, the Republic of Croatia, and also the Croats in the BIH, have agreed to this solution in Dayton. And it was perpetuated by President Tudjman's signature on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. It is not satisfactory, it should be changed well, it is one indicator that is mentioned, but I do not think it is most important, especially if it is taken into account the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of... which does not go towards strengthening electoral legitimacy in the presidency of 3 peoples, i.e. their representatives, but is going to introduce the whole story, so that other minorities, other peoples living in the BiH, as well, have to have the right to point out their people's candidacy, not only to be closed to Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks, but to be able to run Jews, Roma or any other BiH residents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's going in the exact opposite direction of what we'd like. Another important indicator of equality that I think may be important even though it is not the only one and I think we need to concentrate here is the issue of home to the people. Ways to elect representatives to the home of the people, roles and powers of the home of the people, including the right to veto if the vital and national interest of any people and Croats is at risk. No one is allowed to choose Croatian representatives here. And that's not just me, or the SDP, that's what the Constitutional Court of BiH says. Today I read on BiH portals that the BiH presidency met, that they said they wanted to join the EU. They are committed to meeting all the conditions for joining the EU, wonderfully, we all support them, but one of the basic principles on which the EU is founded is the rule of law. Well, gentlemen, dear, that's enough of your phrases, too, if you want to join the EU, respect the rule of law. The first way you'll prove it is to implement the ruling of your own Constitutional Court on how to elect MPs in the House of Peoples. So, subject Ljubic. Insist the verdict of your own Constitutional Court in Mostar, then you will convince me and trust most of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but also beyond this country of Croatia that you are really serious about wanting a legal state in your own country. So what seems to me is that we ourselves need to set priorities and see, if we want to help the Croats in BiH improve their position, which is number one, which is number two, which we don't need to lose too much energy, because we won't succeed. It seems to me that the House of Peoples is crucial, but it's not the only one. I stress, it seems to me that the battle for the BiH presidency is in advance, the difficult word is lost, but because of the European Court of Justice's ruling, it is very complex that you will get that Croats only choose Croats. Because that's why you deny the possibilities of other nations who are not three constitutive to have their own representative or to vote for him. That's one thing. The second thing is, how do we get to what we want, so first we have to figure out what we want, and then how do we get to it. Obviously we cannot, neither can the Croats themselves in BiH, nor will the increased engagement of Croatia break things, because if that were the case, it would have been the last 25 years. So, something in our approach and way so far has not been good enough to lead to the desired effect. And here I call on you to come up with a common understanding of how to get the ones we need, which are Bosniaks in BiH for a constructive conversation to change things because we cannot, alone, establish the trust that is clearly missing between Croats, Bosniaks and Serbs, each has some fears that block him from believing the other. Bosniaks fear they will not be torn apart by BiH, as Dodik announces every little referendum or the secession of Republika Srpska from BiH. Serbs fear that someone will tear apart the Republic of Serbia, the property of Dayton or wartime, let's be honest. And Croats are afraid if this status quo continues this state that we have, that will soon disappear, or will no longer be a nation big and strong enough to be respected as a political people in BiH. So there are too many mistrusts and fears that block constructive talks and reforms that would allow Croats equality. If we can't go alone, we'll go get help outside. And there is the role of the Republic of Croatia that with powerful allies who have an interest in this region, such as the United States, such as Germany, such as France or in general the EU, we try to place our arguments, convince them and create an atmosphere with them that will lead to change. Is that Dayton 2? I don't know, maybe, if not otherwise, maybe so. Is it through BiH institutions? Even better, if three peoples can connect enough, a common vision of the future of the state to establish trust in that level of rise that will allow such a sequence of events in BiH. But if he's not going, we're going to an international conference. Let's make a deal that might be the way to Dayton 2. A few more words, since my time is running out about the effect of this declaration today. I said on behalf of the SDP Club the only effect is if we consensually adopt it and send a message to the world, to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state that we have a unique position on these issues. But the debate has shown that this is not the case, and various amendments have been submitted, and we will see how the matter ends in the end, whether the amendments that have been submitted will be accepted. But the worst part of what we can send from this session today is that we have different views on the matter. We can have different views on the instruments and way of implementing the policy we want and achieving our goals, but we should not have different views on the goals themselves. Therefore, the declaration should be directed towards the objectives, and a serious debate should be opened, especially between the co-creators of foreign policy in the Republic of Croatia on how to implement these objectives. Because no Croatian government, whatever it tried and tried, still failed to achieve it. So I'm not criticizing either A, B, or C government, I'm just saying obviously we need to sit together and arrange a modus operanda to realize what we all want together, we're talking about. So that these bile discussions will no longer be necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121816	Thank you very much, Mr. Klaric's replica. We only have one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121817	A colleague with a large part of your debate can agree and is it not the strongest message from today's meeting and this topic exactly what you have mentioned, that finally this Croatian Parliament is sending a clear message, that we are not irrelevant, that we are interested, that we want to, we want to give a strong message and support to our people in the Republic and that that is why we need a consensus and that we cannot argue in a way that someone tells us not to interfere with another country, because it is not just another country, in that other country lives both our people and it is our duty and our duty to take care of it and be unique in it. And that is the goal and that is the strongest message of this debate today that should come out of it. Everything else is floscule and political bickering, because it's very important for those people who live there and are our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121818	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121819	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, it is an important message and I think that message has been sent to the Croats in BIH, but not only to them, we must formulate that message in such a way that those who are key to changing that status and the position of unsatisfactory Croats in the BIH are also satisfied with it, that is, ready to change. So to formulate change in a way that also Bosniaks in the BIH sense our well-meaning rather than our involvement in their affairs. To formulate a message that both Europe and our NATO allies also accept our message as a message of good faith, as concerns for the whole of the BIH, and not only for the Croats, and of course Croatia will care primarily for the Croats, but for all of them. Because without their additional political engagements, we will not be able to change the situation in the BIH, i.e. the position of the Croatian people in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121820	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Vlaho Orepic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mr. Millian Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121821	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, State Secretary and Honored Assistant Minister. Today, listening to these discussions on the declaration, on the status and position of Croats in BIH, I had the impression sometimes, as if I were in the home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly, because some of our colleagues and colleagues obviously speak the language as some who speak in the BIH, instead of representing the interests of the Croatian people, instead of being unique on this subject, on which we should at least politicise, in which we should at least learn, unfortunately, some today's assembly have been used for various politics and for various messages that are not suitable if we want to teach our people well in BIH. Our people in BIH are looking at Croatia, looking at us, looking at the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and simply wanting the hand of security and support and support, that they are safe in the BIH, that they will survive, remain and that we will fight for their status, for their equality and for their consistency in the BIH. I also welcome, I do not know if there are students from the University of Mostar and political representatives of the Croatian people from the BIH, from the CNS, therefore, not from the Croatian People's Party, Mr Curaj, but from the Croatian National Assembly. The Croatian National Assembly, for those who do not know, are members of the 13 political parties of the Croatian sign, so 13 political parties. So we're not talking about HDZ... Only, HDZ BIH is the biggest party, but 13 political parties are together in the Croatian People's Assembly and are fighting for the political interests of Croats in the BIH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So some colleagues in the Croatian Parliament must know that the political interests of Croats in the BIH are not only implemented through the policies of HDZ BIH but primarily through policies, attitudes and certain projects, certain HNS programmes in the BIH. This declaration is not a declaration by the Croatian HDZ, this is a declaration by the Croatian Parliament. We started talking about this declaration somewhere, and we didn't get to talk about it in May or June of this Mr. So, in time, could we talk about it before we should have talked about it much earlier? Of course we are. Why are we talking today? Why we'll talk tomorrow, we can ask ourselves and all of us and our predecessors. But if we're going back in time, it certainly won't change the position of our people in the BiH. Surely we will not improve their status and their position and I think it will only lead us to further divisions. As I recall, Mr. Ljubic can correct me on the Committee on the Croatians, which is the promoter of this declaration, we unanimously supported that first version of the declaration. So, I don't know where we're from now on, thinking about the declaration. In the contents of the declaration, each of us certainly has some suggestions, some of our own thinking, I personally said, on the last Committee on Croatians, seeing that the declaration was rejected, that the declaration, without passion, without emotion, without color, taste and smell, thinking primarily of those who are the most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state and the most responsible for the creation, i.e., the unique and defence-free BIH, which are members of the Croatian people, i.e. the Croatian Council of Defence, Mr. Bulj knows very well, and all of us. If we want to go back a little bit, that Croatia is not only defended in Croatia, that Croatia has defended itself in the area of BIH. But also, whoever is honest, who is honest, who wants good for the Croatian people, must admit that the Croatian forces in BIH entered the area of BIH on the basis of the agreement and the basis of the Split Izetbegović-Tuđman agreement. So, he was not defending himself at Kliss, he was not defending himself up in Kamenski, he was defending himself at Kupres, he was defending himself in Livno, Dubrovnik was not just defending himself on Srdje, etc., etc. If we are to forget these things, if we are not going to articulate these things, and if we do not have that attitude, I am firm and determined and do not forget the historical facts, the historical truth, I do not know how we can expect from some other political factors, both in BiH and in the EU, that they represent the interests of the Croatian people, if we ourselves are ashamed of our history, our past, our facts, in the end, my speakers have said, it seems to me that my colleague Sokol has talked about it, is not here now, what everything the Republic has done in the aggression of the great Serb and Chetnic Army and the forces of BiH as regards the care and care of the BiH border, refugees. primarily Bosniaks, not to mention arming the BiH Army component through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So that's what many forget, but in order to not forget it, we have to stress it over and over and over again. In order to understand the situation of the Croats in BiH, we must live with that people, I may be privileged in that part because I was born in BiH, so I may know a little more about this subject, but those who are not born in BiH, those who have an emotion towards the Croatian people, and we are an indivisible people living in two countries, should, if nothing, listen to that people, go to BiH, ask them how they are, and not that some people are out of humiliation at all, not that in some former governments, in foreign affairs, there are those who say that the place in BiH is not classy enough for them to go down to work in BiH and represent the interests of the Croatian people. So, we're not excavators here, we're chosen by the people, we're chosen to listen to that people and help them in the part where we can help them. If the situation with the Croatian people in BiH had not been so alarming, surely the Committee, on the initiative of Mr Ljubic and Mr Raguž, would not have gone with this proposal to adopt the Declaration. I'm saying again, maybe we should have done it a long time ago, but better late than never. I sincerely hope that when we bring it in or when we vote it, that we will bring it with the highest degree, or with the greatest level of agreement in the HS, to be a strong message politically, both to our people in BiH and to political factors in BiH, and also to political factors in the EU, and to our partners, thinking of the great force of the United States. The intention of this Declaration is to clearly define the current political moment in which our people are in BiH and to consider all possibilities and ways to help our people in BiH. I personally don't get excited that we will, and I think you agree that with this Declaration we will solve all the problems in BiH of our people, no one has solved them all so far, but that doesn't mean we're going to complain about that fact, but we're going to fight, we're not going to give up on it. We have no right to give up the fight for the survival of the Croatian people in BiH. I've already been told many times by my eloquents that we have a constitutional obligation, Art. 10., some say that I interfere with BiH's internal affairs, I have not yet seen the initiative on their part that they have submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution that we are eradicating this article, so if there is no such article, then we will interfere with the Constitution, and since we have a constitutional obligation, since we are also co-signors of both the Washington and Dayton Agreement where we have committed ourselves to some things, and the Dayton Agreement has foreseen BiH as a principle of 1.2.3, that Mr Klisovic knows better than I do, and he has given me little optimism and hope with this debate that we will still achieve some agreement in HS, that there are still some things that we will not deal with and petty. So one state, two entities and three peoples Thank you very much. [[Time, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121822	But you have three replicas, so you'll be able to connect everything. Mr. Bunjac, Mr. Bunjac's first replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121823	Thank you very much. Mr. Brkic, on the one hand, you are calling here for the greatest consensus and consensus, not just you, but your colleagues from HDZ, but as far as we can see, you just can't agree on what it is about BiH. So, if I understand correctly, you have the opposite opinion of Ms. Buric, or Mr. Plenkovic, and it is clear that some solutions here have been imposed on you, just as you have been imposed on the Istanbul Convention against which you and 14 MPs voted, and I think it would be better if this debate did not even come in this form on the agenda because it turns out to me as another waste of time, not to say fiasco, because you are trying to convince us of the correctness of something that you do not agree with yourself. So, let's agree on at least you in one party, which should be the BiH Declaration, and then say that we try to accept it with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121824	Mr. Brkic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121825	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, thank you for your replica, but you obviously don't listen to what I'm saying or you don't get what I'm saying. So, I said that each of us certainly has its own opinion, its views, which some things should be inserted into this Declaration, but that the Declaration and the adoption of this Declaration is a strong political message to our people in BiH, and this kind of debate of yours and similar colleagues working on the division of our people in constant disputes and attempts to argue, I don't think it will contribute to anything good to the Croatian people, as well as to the Croatian people, and in BiH, a lot more fighting, a lot more division, a lot of empty words, a lot of waste of time. We have been chosen here to do concrete and useful things for the Croatian people, and I hope that we will really do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121826	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121827	Thank you very much. You have highlighted well, at this important political moment for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no more called-up institution than the Croatian Parliament, which would at the moment talk about the problems of Croats as a constituent people in BiH. That is why I believe that all those who today say that this Declaration is an attempt to interfere with other countries' problems, in fact to run away from responsibility, because we are one people, it is our duty to take care of the Croatian people in BiH, not only to expect from us a haven and a safe port, and to be there to help them, but also to send it to everyone in the international community that we are the ones who will always take care of the Croatian people, especially when it comes to the constituent people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121828	Thank you very much. Mr. Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jelkovac. I think it's a wish for all of us to finally become a functioning state, and I think that all of us, everyone at our level and everyone on our jobs that he's been doing, we have to work on that issue. What is the fact that Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence, in the 1990s, never wanted and Croats always sincerely advocated a single Bosnia and Herzegovina. And they never wanted any idea of separatism, which came from some other peoples, and also the idea of unitaryism of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's a fact. And the Croats, in my opinion, were the only guarantee and a guarantee of the survival of Bosnia and Herzegovina throughout this history of turbulence over the past 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121830	Thank you, too. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Brkic, today's debate in the parliament has shown that both the Committee and the Government's decision to go with this Declaration is quite correct, as many colleagues still use the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina to deal with HDZ. These are the people who never set foot in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who did not see what happened to the Croats in the Republika Srpska area, that practically with the establishment of Republika Srpska's legal ethnic cleansing, they do not know the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is good to say that my colleague Ljubic and Raguž sensed that this topic must come to a debate in the Assembly, simply that Croats in Croatia, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, see what anyone really thinks, and not what they declare, because some colleagues on the other hand sent a clear message to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina today as they think of them, and also this side has sent their message in their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121832	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Brkic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Shucker. Unfortunately, you are right about some colleagues, but regardless of them, God gives them health, we must work on unity and community at least on these strategic and crucial topics, when it comes to the survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the time of arrival, and there are four candles on that advent wedding, saying that each of them symbolizes peace, one symbolises love, one symbolises faith and one symbolizes hope, I hope that today we from the Assembly will send our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina a message, that our people in our words will recognize the emotion of love for them, that we have not forgotten them. I hope that we will give them peace in their hearts, hope that with our actions and our words, we will give them hope again, and that they will continue to believe that they are not alone and that they have the support of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121834	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate, Mr. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121835	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Now, I need to say a few words about the Declaration that we're discussing today. Before I do that, I would just like to conclude, however, that some colleagues in their discussions have mentioned how the opposition, I use the word, the summary directory of the opposition, has certain views against this Declaration, I have to correct it, it's not like that. It's not like that. Some colleagues from the opposition, it's not true that the entire opposition, I think it's a slip. So, to remember those words, a little joke, we don't have to stick to the law as a drunk float, but the Constitution has to stick to it. The constitution must hold fast, it binds us, we as representatives, everything we are after all and everything we have sworn here in the Croatian Parliament. And here the Constitution is clear, we must take care of the members of our people outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, but what we need to remember is that we do not cross those borders, and I do not mean the physical boundaries, but the border where that assistance will become an opportunity. And that's why I also told the Committee, I insisted that the government actually arrived, the government's contribution to this Declaration, and that's good, I'll come back to that later. But now just let me say a few more personal things like this. Today, a colleague of Hasanbegovic, when speaking on behalf of the Club, said the following in this House on the fingers of one hand, we can count the representatives who are competent to talk about this topic>, I was a little, as my colleague Orepic said, at one point upset, even a little bit offended, but when I think about it, you see I'm a member of the Committee on Croats outside the country, of course motivation when I entered this Committee was that from my, there from Slavonia, from the part I live, most people went there, in the 1970s, in the '60s, in the '70s, and even from my family, to Germany the most, one part went to Australia, America, so, some in Switzerland, went to France even, to parts of the world. And I am an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia who knows about the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina on average, a little more than an average citizen, because of course why I am a representative of something and I must admit that I have learned from some colleagues and colleagues more than that in this debate today. and that is why I believe that this debate is good to take place in the Croatian Parliament, the truth goes on for a long time, I hope that ours and Croats in BiH, not only the Croats and the citizens of BiH, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia listen to this debate, that they will gain better insight into all the problems that concern Croats and other peoples in BiH. Now we return to ourselves, on the very declaration of my colleague Josko Klisovic, I must commend his debate, later my colleague, Miljan Brkic, and I see that there is actually a good basis here for bringing this declaration and for it to be of use in the end to meet its purpose. But if I didn't, I'd go back to the Constitution, what I'm interested in here is the representatives of the government, and there's a colleague Ljubic, according to what counterpart Klisovic has asked as a question, and we're going back to diplomacy, which this declaration, which will really help, not only this government, but every future government and president of the Republic of Croatia in this case, tomorrow may be president or president, to really do everything because under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 94, 99 and 110, the government and the president of the country co-creators of foreign policy. Will it really help us to fight and that this declaration is the basis for those in diplomatic performances to fight as someone said to our friends in the world that these things are being implemented and that indeed the situation of Croats in BiH cannot be, is no longer discriminatory. Because everything and if it weren't for the Croats, if it were another people, I would always be in that position no one should be deprived of their rights. It happens to us often, here I believe that you have experienced it, and when you watch a sports game and you always root for the one who loses, so in human nature, it's that we fight for those who are in a harder position, and when it comes to the Croatian people that the Constitution binds us to, then we don't really have an excuse, and as someone said long ago I don't know who said, if we didn't plant the tree 20, 25 years ago, the best time to plant it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121836	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, it is a long day and a debate on a very important topic, and I don't think anyone in the assembly has mentioned it today, and otherwise doesn't think that Croatian representatives and the Croatian state should help and help people, our people who don't live in Croatia and do it, all governments do it, and this government, we heard today and concrete data. But this isn't about that, this is about a situation that hasn't happened since yesterday and this is about when a little bit of me would have said it interested or started a debate about it. And the fact is that we can't escape that HDZ did it the moment the candidate who was a member of their party failed, because four years ago, four years ago, when he passed that debate, we didn't have it, and the same situation was potential for it to happen four years ago in the BiH elections. We also heard here a minister who did not say she had raised those issues before the BiH elections, but cited two meetings that happened afterwards. And then the question arises, whether what we should take advantage of and the impact and position of Croatia as EU member states and whether we will help BiH find its European path, because I think it is a key question of what the EU wants with BiH and how to allow that country to find its European path and that people live normally, to be arranged as a country, means that people can live there, that they do not move out, because I haven't heard too much here debate or from colleagues who come from there, so it's not only because they can't choose their own member of the presidency, or they can't, but I can't choose it in a way that they might think they should choose, but people move out because of what BiH is unfortunately, at this point, which doesn't offer an excessive perspective for all their citizens. The economy is not good, we have seen what the situation is, for example, now and as far as air pollution is concerned in Sarajevo, so these things are the ones that Croatia should use influence and enable, allowing BiH to find its European path because it is most in the interest if you want to use Croatians in BiH. And what I also do not appreciate is being heard here in debates and especially from colleagues who are also initiators of this declaration, today Mr Ljubic said on behalf of the board that one situation does not suit them, but when in Croatia we have an apparent betrayal of voters, because those elected in the parliamentary elections in Croatia to vote against HDZ are now raising two hands for HDZ, which is OK. They don't see anything disputed here. That's great, because it's HDZ. And that's the problem that bothers me, that everything is looked at from the focus of whether it fits HDZ or doesn't match HDZ. And that's why I said in the morning that Andrej Plenkovic's legitimacy was identical to that of Željko Komsic. So, if you are complaining that the Croats did not choose the president or member of the presidency there, so neither are these MPs who were able to vote for Andrej Plenkovic here on behalf of the voter, it doesn't bother you, it's OK. What Mr. Curaj who entered the SDP and HNS lists now votes for Plenkovic not to count now how many MPs there can be already on two hands, perhaps even missing when you have two hands and over, over 10 who vote for the government of Andrija Plenkovica it is quite okay for HDZ and there is absolutely no problem there, as much as they want to be more. So perhaps Mr. Curaj and this society wouldn't have imagined that they were too important, so this textbook law doesn't pass if they could have a majority without them. So it's colleagues and colleagues, here a big problem of what we're discussing from completely wrong motives because these reasons that we've been talking about here haven't been since yesterday, not since yesterday, these reasons have been for decades and I say, four years ago there was no problem when Mr. Covic was elected, then we haven't had a declaration, we haven't had such serious conversations, and the topics we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, although I honestly find it a little odd that Željko Komsic is the only Croat in BiH that I can choose from the Bosniaks. How come they didn't find anyone four years ago? It's really weird, I guess he's the only one who can get the support of the Bosniak body in that way because if this were true that Bosniaks can automatically choose a member of the presidency, then not even 4 years ago would have been elected either Covic, they would have found someone else. So Komsic couldn't run, they'd say we'll take Milijan Brkic and we'll run him and he'll become a member of the presidency. So it's not just as simple and simplified as we want to be introduced here, obviously one part of the people are not satisfied with the HDZ policy that's being conducted in BiH, something is going on, we talked to a colleague of Ljubic who's been constant and he and Mr. Covic have been since '95. at the top of the HDZ, they fought a little bit, they calmed down a bit, but it can't be of interest to the citizens of BiH, the interest of the HDZ. So the interest should be that we all agree here, that our people down there can live qualityly, to be a constituent people, to be more and not to be less, to be allowed through state, as far as we can, but not to be primarily focused on what people are saying, primarily people are percepting it now to HDZ doesn't fit, so let's just power up because Covic isn't elected. That's not what's good. I'd love to talk about what's been missed in the last 20 and a few years because many talk about the spirit of Dayton but the spirit is one thing, paper is another. Maybe you shouldn't have signed those things in the beginning that are now controversial, that can't be cleared up. So on this side, my message to everyone is that for personal reasons it is necessary to clean party pushing one topic into the light of day only at the moment when a party responds to a problem rather than to be dealt with systematically, constantly we have a certain influence, we should not interfere in other countries, meaning there are ways in which our people can be helped, Croats who are a constituent people in BiH so that here I would beg my colleagues from HDZ, I would ask the Minister to answer me what I asked in the morning, which are exactly what the meetings were, where she warned at the Councils of Ministers or whether it might be Prime Minister Plenkovic, I will ask him when the report on the Presidents' meetings means the European Council here, to tell me exactly what the meetings they were, certainly raised at any meeting before they were or elections in BiH, and it is likely that Croatian citizens do not know it because the Prime Minister Plenkovic is sure that he raised his hand against the Croatians, and the Croatians once again. So I would ask you to stay away from the party's discourse, to watch what is in the interest of people, to see what is in BiH's interest as a country, because there are Croats living in BiH, to make sure that the EU offers a European path to BiH so that it will be a better quality country and that the countries prosper so that the sooner the more expensive it will be because it will only ensure the quality of life for our people there and young people who have been here from college and those who work and those who unfortunately do not now because they have no business or move from BiH to work elsewhere. That is what I think we should discuss and how Croatia should be asked about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121838	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative of Curray. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121839	Thank you, Vice President. The Rules of Procedure in Article 232 on the subject of the debate, paragraph 238(1), paragraph 6. Namely, fellow Maras, probably wanting to be more theatrical in his presentation, unfairly not at all connects me personally with this topic. The voters of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County certainly did not vote and we received two candidates, more than all of the SDP candidates on the list to listen to you or do not give God to a colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121840	Thank you very much. I estimate there's no injured Rules of Procedure after all. We have replicas. Tell your colleague Maras, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121841	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, article 33 was injured in the lead, you should have done it as soon as you saw this coming down on your colleague Curray's replica, because there's no courage, a man raised a yellow plate, so he's using a breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it for me. So you should've taken away his word right away so he wouldn't replicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121842	Comrade Maras, I take away that moment's word from you because you did not look at it and, as usual, you always say what you want and not at all about things because your colleague Curaj has raised a replica... Yeah, well, he can now, right? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you so much for helping me run the session. Thank you so much, otherwise I wouldn't know. The first replica will be the respected representative and vice president of this House of Commons, Mr. Millian Brkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121843	I would like to thank my colleague, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, with one part of your presentation, I have even agreed and felt in your words, in your statement that you are concerned about the status of the Croatian people in BiH and I am pleased. As for running this whole Declaration story, you weren't there, I'm sorry. That's what we were already talking about, so it was initiated somewhere in May or June this year, so long before the October 7th general elections in BiH. As for a concrete candidate from the ranks of the Croatian people who was a candidate for the presidency, he is not a HDZ candidate, he is a candidate for the Croatian National Assembly. The Croatian National Assembly gathers 13 political parties from the Croatian sign. So, I'm asking you to keep that in mind and that when you say that in the future you know that fact. As far as Mr. Komsic is concerned, he was not elected for the third time, he could not have been because he was so legally elected. procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If he could have been, he would have been chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121844	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121845	Thank you very much. I'll do what I want to say again, Vice President. So, as far as the neighbour is concerned, I said he is not the only Croat that the Bosniaks can choose. So, the fact is he couldn't run three times, and in that interregnem they could choose, I don't know, Mr. Shuker. So there's a possibility that someone else was running to be chosen by the Bosniaks. So, it's not a black and white world, with the automation of Bosniaks I can choose a Croat as a member of the presidency because otherwise Mr. Covic would not have been chosen. Otherwise, he's a member of the HDZ. It was my observation, despite being run by 12 other major parties from BiH, but here he is only a member of HDZ and then the biggest noise was raised, it's not just my impression, it's the impression of a large majority of the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121846	Thank you. The following replicas, the esteemed MPs Vranesh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121847	Thank you. Comrade Maras, it's great that everything you've stated that we should do, as the Parliament is in this Declaration. So, almost everything. It has 6 pages without explanation, we had all the time read, which you mentioned environmental protection in the 2nd century, economic issues are the same there, if you find it difficult to read 6 pages, we have a 4th and 5th page that also repeats everything you said. But it's not clear to me that you were at the debate this morning, that you weren't there today, maybe you were following, and by what you said, you didn't see that you were following the debate, that you were bringing this issue down to politics, to the HDZ representative, to any election. So six apartments, no explanation, you have a further explanation, I guess you'll read it by Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121848	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121849	Thank you very much, I've read it and we've given the amendments. So, what... How much? Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: Please, not from the bench.]] We'd have to be a little bit more energetic, but this isn't bad either. So... Time, please, yes. [[Intruder: When I'm too energetic, you resent me again.]] Thank you very much. So, as far as this is concerned, I've read, we've given amendments and we're taking part in the debate, what's important to us is that this problem is systematically solved, that Croatia doesn't interfere with the internal affairs of another country and that it's not seen, it's personal to me, that it's not seen from the perspective of the party, as I say again, it's not my opinion, it's what people see. And that's how people react. This kind of noise would never be lifted if it weren't for a HDZ member. Never. Here, if Mr. Ljubic had not been chosen, it would probably have been a lot less noise. Has Ljubic returned to HDZ? I don't know, if he came back, then there'd be just as much noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121850	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121851	Thank you. My colleague Maras, in fact, I had one way in front of the club discussion, just a little bit of a mustache. So, Mr. Komsic is legally elected, but has no legitimacy. So that's two basic differences when you wanted to show this in person and use me, so be it, I don't think it's an honor, but we can't always expect it to be. So that's what I pointed out. And I can agree. Well, that's not the only and biggest problem for Croats in BiH. It's a cause now, but we're going to do something with this on one symbolic level, but if not all those actors that I said don't sit down, all those who took part in the Washington and Dayton Agreement, now at this quiet time, when the war is put aside, there's no progress anywhere. So, the elected member of the presidency has been legally elected, under the laws that have been elected so far, but he has no legitimacy of that constituent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121852	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121853	Thank you very much. Same thing about you, Mr. Chury. And your colleagues from the HNS. And some other MPs in HS who, frankly, sometimes, I feel sorry for when they find themselves in such a situation, but they chose that fate themselves. So they were elected legally, but they have no legitimacy to raise hands for Andrej Plenkovic. It's very simple. Because if you, Mr. Curaj, had run over Osijek-Baranja County and said, "Hey, vote for me, but in two years I will raise my hand for Andrej Plenkovic, don't say anything," no one would vote for you. They wouldn't get two votes. Or do you think we could get more votes? Maybe we could get more votes. Maybe we changed in the SDP, we used the wrong tactics. Maybe we should talk, we should vote for Plenkovic, then maybe we should take all the votes to HDZ. So you have no legitimacy, that's what this is about. In the election, you said no to Andrej Plenkovic, now you're voting for him. Not in the election, you spoke one day before you changed your mind. Your party president has entered anals Croatian policies as the most unworthy politician [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] which exists in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121854	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121855	Thank you, Vice President. So, again, I mean, you should have warned your colleague, so, absolutely 232, and 238, he's not talking about the topic of discussion, of benefit and deviation from the behavior of the rules, he's using himself again. If you're so worried about the results, you have Sunday's results, the HNS, the minority alone 17% in Osijek, SDP, GLAS, HSS, I don't know who everything is, 7%. Here's your legitimacy, that's what the voters wanted, and we, the two HNS candidates got more votes than the entire SDP there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121856	Thank you. I judge that no injured Rules of Procedure and please, all together, nicely, ask you to stick to the subject, to talk about the Declaration, not to use the story of the Declaration which is very important for the Croatian people in BiH, and then to the Republic of Croatia, for any party and similar, I would say, debates that we can always use on some other occasions. This is something that I think we should be pretty unique about, and it seems to me that we actually are, just let's not get away from the subject too much. You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure. All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121857	Let me give you a little commendation. So, you spoke nicely, but he was injured. 33. You should have taken that moment away from Mr. Curai immediately because he doesn't understand that this is about legitimacy. We've been talking about legitimacy all day. He doesn't have any legitimacy. Ivan Vrdoljak has no legitimacy to vote for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic very simple. [[Okay, don't do it again.]] So that's it. That's clear, these great results he's achieved at 7% turnout are really relevant. [[Don't do it again, don't do it again.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: I'll use your good advice then, so don't you go any further, please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121858	I find that, of course, the Rules of Procedure has not been injured and we stick to, please, all the topics together. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It used to be the criticism and the self-critics, let's go to the self-critics first, let's say a little bit about us, about HS. Three highlights from this Declaration that I have managed to draw are the following, implementing the Constitutional Court's verdict, amending the electoral law and legal representation. If applied to the Republic of Croatia, we would say this, the Constitutional Court's ruling on the abortion law will not be implemented within the time of our Constitutional Court. We will not change the electoral law, we have not yet counted the signatures for a referendum that came from the people. As for legitimate representation, that's what Mr. Maras has now elaborated, so there's no need to say it further. That's what you could say from our perspective, and now we're going to BiH's perspective. First, there are several myths. One is who we said, we won't agree to anything less, we agreed to 95th in Dayton, the Republic of Croatia has agreed because three constituent nations, two entities. The circumstances for which it happened were then historic and when someone did not resent it then because they were happy, because we were happy that the war ended, which created the preconditions for the integration of the Podunov and finally, as Mr Ljubic said, the sooner the change by the High Representative worked, the more we ended the topic. So we agreed, but now we don't have to agree to less than what we agreed to then, it could be an exact formulation. Second, the letter and the spirit, therefore, who is authorized to interpret the letter and who is the spirit. The letter is authorized to interpret, who, the Constitutional Court of BiH, and the spirit, are empowered to interpret those who signed it and we can only ask whether the law by which members of the BiH presidency are elected is in accordance with what was agreed in Dayton and if not, then we must establish it, dear gentlemen, you have deceived us, the point and ask that this fraud be corrected. Third question, meddling in the domestic affairs of another country. To be very direct, we are not discussing the Labour Act in BiH, we are not discussing the competition, we are discussing something that stems from the International Treaty signed by the Republic of Croatia. There are two principles, they have Latin names, but I'll say in Croatian, so you don't make some lapus because Latin doesn't exactly speak. So one thing is, contracts must be respected, the pact of sun servanda, and the other is, the Kingdom of the Kingdom does not prescribe laws, regnus regno non-broken legions. In those two, between these two principles lies this debate of ours. So, what is signed in the peace agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia, obliges the Republic of Croatia and obliges all parties that have signed and if we consider that it is in breach, it is our task to react to this and we can do so by establishing that the existing electoral law in BiH does not guarantee legitimate representation of the constituent people in the presidency, which is contrary to the spirit of the Dayton Agreement, as Mr Miroslav Lajcak, the fourth commissioner, and then it should not be a problem to say to any representative in the HS and second, that the existing Law in BiH as regards the election of members of the Presidency does not guarantee all citizens, BiH citizens, the right to run, which is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe, which the European Court in Strasbourg argues. And as we have the right to react to human rights violations in any part of the world and to give a statement, we have the right to do so for BiH, point. Therefore, I have no dilemma that we can discuss this and that we can take a stand on this. About the content of the point of view, about timing, about tactics, let the government say its own thing, but if we have the right to do so and we have no problem formulating it, I don't see any problem with doing it. Third, one of the fundamental values of social democracy, solidarity among other things and solidarity with the weak. Of the constituent peoples in BiH and of the larger peoples in the Federation who are weaker, Croats say the figures by number. If it's possible to revote them, it's possible, in law, it's a mathematically undeniable fact, whether by changing the number of MPs in the federal home of the people the high representative made it easier to vote, yes, because it's not the same thing when you choose 5 out of 17 and 5 out of 30, it's a little complicated I explained, so I won't, I won't go into it. Thus, the Social Democrats' task is to look after those who are weaker, not only the Social Democrats in Croatia, but also the Social Democrats in BiH and Social Democrats in Europe. And we've completely reversed the story, maybe you can see who's weaker in some kind of general, world, politics, etc., but that's it. So, what you need to say is still to be said. Željko Komsic is legally and in his view legitimately elected member of the presidency, first he does not say that he is a legitimate representative of the Croatian people, second he thinks he should not be, he clearly said. He's a legitimate representative of those citizens who voted for him, is that the spirit of the Dayton Agreement, we claim not to. Point. Therefore, if someone is running in their country, goes to the polls, gets the largest number of votes from all candidates in the election unit, then it is not right for him to say that he is not legitimately elected because he has received more votes from the Bosniak people, however, he is a legitimate representative of the Bosniak people if we are going to push him to the finish, not Mr. Zaferovic. And in this sense, it is very careful to talk about the situation in BiH, I have two minutes left and I haven't mentioned this other entity at all. The behaviour of their legitimate representatives who question the purpose of the BiH state, which refers to the symbols of the BiH state in the least said inappropriate manner, which deny genocide in Srebrenica, is what you know that I have not yet been able to get to it and, at the end of the debate, so I wanted to talk a little longer. After all, questions about civil or ethnic principles are raised. In the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives, the BiH parliament, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is a civil principle entirely. In the House of Peoples, there should be an ethnic principle and it is done. And now the question of the presidency is, here we have a combination of the civil-ethnic principle where the Bosniaks and Serbs are applied ethnically, and for the Croats it is not fair. The solution is in full civil principle and what needs to be defined is how to set up election units to elect representatives of citizens in which anyone will be able to run, choose anyone. In theory, none of the Croats may be in the presidency after such changes, and it may occur that they are all three and vice versa, but by agreeing the borders of the electoral units, it can be defined to the greatest extent that whoever is elected from part of the territory, that he may be considered a legitimate representative of one of the constituent people, and in order to avoid the delusions of the third entity and of any other such electoral units may have some kind of crossover to be so mathematically expressed, and then all of them would probably be equally dissatisfied but there would be no one who is completely dissatisfied and those who are fully satisfied because, in that sense, the balance that should exist and the equality of constituent peoples is violated and we believe that Croatia can make a statement about it, if it is prepared to argue well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121860	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121861	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here's what to say after the 10th hour, and perhaps even now for longer debates and it's never been heard here in this assembly before, but here's what I'm going to try to say through the replicas. Of course, our national issue is the issue of the situation of Croats in BiH, the Dayton Agreement has resulted in peace being established, but unfortunately it has not resulted in a functional state structure in BiH, and of course I will not agree that this interference is in BiH's internal affairs, but it is precisely in accordance with the Dayton Agreement that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to promote the implementation of the BiH Constitution. The Republic of Croatia advocates the principles of rule of law, but thus the equality of Croats compared to two other constituent nations. Stable BiH is of course of interest to the Republic of Croatia for the reason that 553,000 Croats live there on the last list, but also for 1,000 and more kilometres of borders that we have with BiH. We are aware that we must make no false move, not one wrong word to harm our Croats in BiH, and that is why I think that this document that we have today has been written carefully to support our people in BiH. When it comes to aid for infrastructure health, science, education and cultural projects here, I must commend this government that has really put forth its best efforts and increased financially by around 17.5% in the budget. Of course, for the survival and better position of Croats it is very important and important, Croatians have the right to education and their public media in Croatian, the right to freedom of choice in political life, the promotion of mutual co-existence, inter-religious dialogue and cultural diversity. In my replicas, I tried to say that I only talk positively about Croats if they produce good results in sports, cultural, educational and entertainment content, but here I must repeat that we were all happy when our team returned from Russia and we had almost half the representatives who came from BiH in that team. I would like to point out once again that the Croats are asking for nothing more than what belongs to them under the Constitution because they too are equal with the other two peoples in BiH. Of course, the European road, the historic road, the historic opportunity for BiH, is sure that we will all help on this path to BiH, to get in here as soon as possible but we have heard here today through a debate from individual colleagues that the biggest interest of the Croatian people is to join the EU, that that part of the Serbian people sees it in Russia, Bosniak sees it in Turkey but here, I am sure that we will vote with one great consensus on this document because it would really mean a lot to the Croats in BiH and hopefully here, the debate on how it ends, that it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121862	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, one of the esteemed representatives of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121863	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maksimchuk, you have more focused your debate on the co-operation and assistance of the Croatians in BiH. You have stated that just as the Republic of Croatia is helping BiH most on the European path, that during the war, the largest aid has also come from the Republic of Croatia and the military and aid in the care of refugees, the treatment of all the necessary and the wounded, and the whole debate has taken place on the subject of co-operation. You also stressed that today, the Republic of Croatia is helping BiH build scientific, educational, infrastructure and all other projects. That is the key, so these medical institutions are not only used by Croats but also by other peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121864	Thank you very much. Dear representative Maximchuk. .
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121865	Thank you, Vice President. So that fellow Strick, it is our duty to help the Croats in BiH, I also stressed and commended the government of the Republic of Croatia who really invests much in the infrastructure of health, science, education and other institutions in BiH because of the fact that we, of course, are the ones who have to help that people, have helped in those times of war but have not received and helped only the Croats in BiH, we have also helped the Bosniaks, so I believe that this is our obligation and that we will continue on that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121866	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121867	Dear fellow Members, I even think that mixing the internal affairs of another country is not something that is desirable but this is about me two principles, the first is respect for international contracts and the second is respect for the rule of law. It couldn't exactly be called mixing the domestic affairs of another country. In addition, today the BiH Presidency has expressed doubts about the constitutionality of a law of the Republic of Croatia and is looking for a way to challenge the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court will probably make some kind of decision on what it will be, that is, if we decide that we have to change something, we will implement it. So that's one thing. Another thing, as regards pride, not only for members of the Croatian people from BiH who play for the Croatian national team, I am proud of the members of the Croatian people when they lead the BiH national team and when they achieve success and I am sorry if sometimes the state symbol or anthem of BiH is facing humiliation in areas we like to call the majority Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121868	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121869	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, I never said that we should interfere or interfere, but that means we respect the decisions of the legitimately elected representatives of the Croatian people in BiH, and as far as these features are concerned, I would not talk about it, I was talking about the successes of the Croatian team, they will remain recorded in all the next and younger generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121870	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Dragica Vranjes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121871	When the Dayton Agreement was signed, no one thought that there would be a revote of the fewest people and that we would come into this situation so that this spirit of Dayton would be violated. We probably can't even imagine today what the future holds in BiH's premises. Is it possible that we are discussing the protection of Croats in BiH without protecting Croats in Croatia? It really isn't, because we here in all these activities not only have an obligation but we really protect ourselves and our rights. Is it possible to have a safe state, we saw it in the '90s, if it mastered war, if it was insecurity, we saw where we defended our interests and where we kept our safety. And today, even though the debate started a little bit like that because I think too much light was given to those MPs in the minority as Mrs. A girl I don't want to give time to in this debate anymore because I think a small number of people can identify with her, and everyone has a right to their own opinion. I think it is clear to all of us that our Constitution, that the Dayton Agreement, and especially the Washington Agreement, gives us an obligation and that any implementation of our documents of national, economic, security development, especially the strategy on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Law on relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the National Security Strategy clearly points to what we do. There's a lot that's been said today, this document without reason, I mean, it's got six pages and it's really summed up, it's got a synthesis of everything that's really important. He also initially mentions what we keep mentioning is that we confirm BiH's sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. Although such topics have been lost from focus today, in the good part he speaks of many other things than just violating the electoral process, or the spirit of the Dayton Agreement and the legitimacy of the elections themselves. He also talks about the protection of the environment and the cooperation of cross-border and agricultural economies, I think, we must remind that the net export of Croatia to BiH is about 3 billion kuna and that all other areas of development of the Republic of Croatia depend on it. We are obliged to care as a member of the EU and NATO for regional security and it would certainly be ridiculous to further argue that any representative or candidate in the elections of the Croatian people who has over 80 votes of the Croatian people should not be a representative of the Croatian people. That's why I invite all citizens to read the last six six, seven hints that require the authorities of the Republic of Croatia to do what they do. They have much broader problems, and of course now the strongest one related to the electoral process. I call on all of us here to work together with BiH through the institutions that we represent, through associations that we represent because it is really not possible to develop, in that, it is not possible, some of the chapters in the Republic of Croatia cannot be solved at all if they exist in BiH, and development may not be possible to the extent that we have a bad situation in BiH, as our neighbouring country, with which we have the longest limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121872	Thank you very much, we have one replica, the respected representative of Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121873	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Vranjš, I will replicate you in that part of cross-border cooperation and touch you probably in the debate of something that has not been touched so far. We know that there are Interregs, cross-border cooperation programmes and we know that there are, say, cross-border cooperation between Italy and Croatia, envelope 236 million euros. And right now, Interreg is in effect between Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, where we choose partners. In particular, here is the town of Vrgorac has chosen the city of Livno as a partner. Where we have an envelope secured only by 67 million euros. And we do not use this as Croatia, as a member of the EU, to make this envelope four times bigger. And to help the Croats in BiH, first of all, with money from this Interreg envelope, as far as cross-border cooperation is concerned. So, I really think we need to benefit more from EU membership And it's not just a question here, the Foreign Ministry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] rather than the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121874	The answer of the esteemed representative Vranjš.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121875	Comrade Pranic, I think you missed the key here. So it is crucial that we should support BiH on the road to the EU, it is crucial, and then it will really be possible that the funds for co-operation with BiH will be significantly greater. And that's what's real. And everything else is compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121876	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121877	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here comes the long-awaited Declaration on the status of the Croatian people in BiH. So we have one document on only six sides, here's a nice fellow Roscic pointed out. A nice document, and really, here's what I agree with everything that says here. I really don't have a grudge and I wouldn't throw anything out. But you'd throw in a 20-page page that's not listed because here we have, here, for those who look at us over little screens, or they'll look at it, or maybe they'll pass on, here says, here's what we're saying, what we really want. That Croatia will advocate and support that Croatia wants BiH to be in the EU, support education institutions, support for small entrepreneurship, projects, investment in development etc., etc. But we don't have any concrete solution to what we're discussing here. And that's the extermination of the Croatian people in BiH. So, the Croats will soon be in BiH. The Croats were in 1991, for those who did not know there were 800 thousand, so in 2000, then, mostly today, they are somewhere, to cut to perhaps 400 thousand Croats in BiH. That's, like, twice as much. And the number's shrinking. And in fact, what was the trigger, what was the trigger for this Declaration at all, that is, this debate? Here are the colleagues, many pointed out, the problem is that the Croatian representative who was nominated in front of HDZ and 12 other smaller parties, failed, was not the only Croatian candidate, to be clear, there were several others, who also failed, so to come, to join the presidency. And now it's mentioned, Mr. Covic is mentioned, and nobody mentions Mrs. Zelenika and someone else, for example. Now, if which, by chance, really Mr. Covic was elected, would you tell me about it today, I don't know, but I'll say this. This case has already happened twice to the Croatian people. Twice! In a perfidious, insidious way, Bosniak Muslims voted the Croats. Twice. So we kept quiet. Now all of a sudden we're talking. Did we wake up at last now? We didn't wake up! If we'd woken up, we wouldn't have made such a declaration, which is great, but there's no solution in it. We support, we advocate, we try, we particate, we participate, but what? Well, Croatia, my people, here's a lot of lawyers, is a signer of the Dayton Agreement. Croatia is not much of an observer, it is a signator of the Dayton Agreement. So he has the right to also influence the change of that agreement. Well, it's not the Holy Scriptures, but it's one agreement that can be changed, of course, if someone signed it, it's a request, because something's wrong with it. I'm going back to that core I pointed out this morning, here it is, and I'm going to point it out again. So, what is the solution for the Croatian people? We've been discussing, how many hours, it's hard to calculate, 10 hours, 12 hours we've been discussing, and no one's offered or dared to say it, and here I'm going to say it the third time today, and that's exactly the third entity. So why is it here to say? Why, here in HS we are afraid to tell the Croatian people in BiH that the only chance to survive is the third entity, so someone will say, no, it can't be, then we have a great Serbia 100 km from Zagreb. Well, my people, so Serbs already have their own entity and they'll have it after this Declaration, they had it before this Declaration and they'll have it. The Croats, unfortunately, don't, and they won't even have it after this Declaration. Their status will be that the smaller in the Federation of BiH, or that they will continue to be revoted or that they will still be unable to decide anything. And now, I wonder why no one says it or what the arguments are against. Now let's try to see it a little bit like this. Come on, well, who's in the interest of the Federation at all? The Federation is in the interest of, above all, to the International Community, the Croats there are sacrificed not to create one exclusively Muslim state in Europe, especially in today's time, here we have today in Strasbourg of one, watch out, a born Muslim in France, we had, here, killed three people, and hurt who knows how much and now that's the problem. So the international community doesn't want that to happen and that's the problem, okay. How are they gonna make that happen? So we'll sacrifice the Croatian people, he'll be there, let's say, some kind of correction that will affect that Federation not being ethnically homogeneous. So how long? So as long as the Croats have, it will go, when they are gone, there will be no correction, but who cares, the international community doesn't care, and obviously it doesn't care, because we don't care, except for the empathy we've expressed here, here's what I've been listening to my colleague Brkic and you've really been saying it nicely, you're feeling it, but you haven't offered a solution, unfortunately, and the solution is this is what I'm talking about. So, now, who else is afraid of the third entity? He says we'll do it, for example. There he is, the Plowers are very afraid and I understand them. Posavina, unfortunately, is not even part of the Federation of BiH. But what's the difference? Why don't we do that part, and we can also make enclaves or exclaves, whatever you say, Republic of Croatia and make one Croatian entity that won't be territorially connected. Well, my people, every nation defends itself by territory, a people who have no territory, especially in a turbulent space such as BiH, unfortunately, is losing a free battle. And we need to be aware of that. Only when we know. when the Croats in BiH, of course we Croats in the Republic of Croatia, know what is ours, which is from the Croats in BiH, then we will be able to count on their survival. Until that moment, I think there is no help for the Croats. And here we are, shyly saying, come on, come on, please Bosniaks, Muslims, please have mercy, so don't do it again, so don't re-vote our representatives next time, not to, but to, there are more. Well, they'll do the same thing next time, so I'd make fun of the Croats and their politics. But this actually sounds nice, this is all that Andrea Plenkovic needs today, that they have the Declaration, that formally satisfied the Croats in BiH, and after this, you all know, there's nothing, nothing's going to change. I expect from the president of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, here tomorrow, when they have a National Security Council, a joint statement, we want to change the Dayton Agreement and come up with a concrete proposal, why not? Is that some kind of Bible? Well, it's an agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia, full of, especially, HDZ's, Franjo Tudjman's mouth, so that's what Franjo Tudjman signed, and if he knew this was the situation, I'm sure as a sovereign he'd come for this pay phone and say, well, this is no good, let's change it. And we bring the Declarations, we advocate, we think, we think, we encourage, but this is not a solution for the Croatian people, it's not bad, it's great, it's all beautiful, it's beautiful, but there's no solution. However, to conclude this whole story, that the relationship of the majority Bosniak Muslim people in BiH to the Croats is not like this, we would not be discussing today, but in politics and in the world as imperfect, unfortunately the people have to take care of themselves, I cannot expect that because someone else has empathy towards the Croatian people, they will take care of their rights, but will take advantage of the opportunities provided by the agreements to impose or to prosper. Here, so much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121878	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121879	My colleague, first of all, I hope that you will support this Declaration and it is very nice what you say, but you're not offering a solution, either, because you're not talking about the third entity, but you're like the person who comes, I don't know, women at home, kids are hungry, dying of bread, saying what kind of bread, give them a cake, that's exactly how you discuss it, and that's why you don't contribute to anything, and even with those suggestions, if they were feasible, the question is whether everything would be settled. We are also clearly here in this Declaration talking about many other difficult topics such as unsolved cases of the murder of Croats in BiH from returnees to top debtors, unequal treatment, and you yourself last week or two weeks ago, as I recall, spoke precisely in the consequence that is due to the unequal treatment of members of all peoples for the processing of war crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121880	The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121881	Dear colleague Vranjš. So, I've made it clear here what I think is the only, the only chance that you can get rid of, you've said it for the first time, but still so shyly in the way that it's actually expected. But I'm going to say one thing here that I missed in the debate, and maybe I shouldn't have, but now I'm going to say it anyway, to whom does this situation suit? Unfortunately, the HDZ is responding to Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the time when Croatian people would have their own entity, then only pluralism in Bosnia and Herzegovina within the Croatian people could wave, like this, when there is always a potential danger of revoted Bosniaks on the one hand, then Croats gather around the biggest party. And it's simple and logical, and that's it. Every time there's some turbulence people go together, they're nationally connected, so maybe we're not looking for or you're not looking for a third entity, and I'm looking for him, maybe he's lying here, in what I just said, and I hope not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121882	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121883	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I think we are at the end of this debate and thank God a large number of MPs came forward and we saw a lot of MPs pulling their roots, and some were born in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. I'll take a little for the right, for the last year, two days and in cooperation with and certain associations, and youth down in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we've been really and indirectly, and I've talked to many colleagues, and for this debate I've taken advantage of the opportunity exactly to have them send me one, one memo, so I'm going to use that whole to read it, to use it in such a way in my debate. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, today's appearance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the constitutional and legal terms of the word, is the result of the peace efforts achieved in Washington and Dayton by a peace agreement. All significant constitutional and legal experts, political analysts and other interested public are complex in one thing. As the peace processes mentioned above had their most significant value in stopping the bloody war in BiH, the unfinished and unfair peace since the Dayton Agreement was reached today in a permanent trial for almost 25 years. This imperfection was contributed by subsequent, violent, selective, biased interventions in the Constitution, election legislation by representatives of the international community, and most often to the harm of the most few Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the original documents from Dayton and Washington, the Croatian people are indigenous, the oldest people in BiH, the constituent, the forming people of BiH, and this constitutionality has been maintained by the Croats to the day, but unfortunately only paper and declaration. The numerous violations of the Constitution, the interventions of the High Representative, further reduced the rights of the Croatian people, which they had according to the original documents. For more than 20 years, Croats in BiH have described their constitutional and legal position as the dungeon of the Croatian people. Recently, we also had the opportunity to hear from the high representative of BiH that we should first create a catalogue of the positions in which the Croats are located in BiH, and then discuss Croatians' inequality. We are also witnessing that individual media in BiH representatives of the so-called civil policy options have climbed to their backs, accusing us of interfering with BiH's internal affairs, and that we have many bilaterally open issues between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we need to deal with this first. Since we know that we are being listened to and watched here throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that they are very interested in this topic, we need to say, that this declaration, which is in front of us, in front of you, in which you are taxed on the neural points that affect the Croatian people in BiH, actually makes a catalogue of the rights of Croats in BiH, which the High Representative does not want to read or contribute to their achievement. In a conversation with colleagues, acquaintances and friends throughout BiH about this Declaration, many have said that this document is actually a little light, a ray of hope, a lit candle in BiH, a dungeon of Croatian people in quotes, as they call it. In this regard, we welcome the adoption of this proposal of the Declaration before us and the official policies... The Croatian people in BiH, we would like to say that we may have open issues between the two states that we will settle for mutual satisfaction and with full respect, but the Republic of Croatia has no open issues with the Croats in BiH who want to speak on their behalf and who express the satisfaction that this document has been put before us today, when they do not already have a chance in BiH in their own media darkness and in their own media, and talk about it themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They therefore welcome the statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia a few days ago that of these issues of interest to the Croatian people in BiH, regardless of all the pressures that are coming, will not give up. This is not a interference in the internal affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is an act of the most direct active policy of the Republic of Croatia in its most important foreign political priority, which is to preserve the consistency and equality of the Croatian people in BiH, repairing the violated constitutional position and preserving peace and stability in its neighbourhood. The Croats in BiH are threatened with assimilation, majorisation, and the loss of political and national subjectivity, so an unequal position is a mild term in view of the processes that have been carried out, which are on stage and for which there is a legitimate threat. The current political position of Croats is between Serbian separatistism and Bosniak unitarism, a fundamental difference in the position of constituent peoples and the arrangement of BiH does not exist between parties based in Banja Luka, nor with parties based in Sarajevo. At BiH level, the absolutely unfavourable position of Croats regarding the election of BiH presidency members can be elected, not to be voted by a minority of Croats, but to have no single Croatian vote. He literally doesn't even vote for himself. Except for the BiH presidency, the position of Croats is uneven and in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, namely on the scene entity vote, that means that any decision would have passed must be the appropriate number of MPs from both entities. Since Croats are minorities in both entities, this means that any decision in the House of Representatives needs the consent of Bosniaks and Serbs, but not Croats, without Croats can. At the entity level, the Federation of BiH government makes up 8 Bosnian ministers, 5 Croats, 3 Serbians and the president of the government that has always been Bosniak. Decisions are made by a relative majority, and that is why it is possible to make any decision in the government without a single Croatian minister voting for it. In the government's House of Representatives, decisions are made by the same majority, so it is possible that any decision in the House of Representatives passed by without voting for it by any Croatian representative regardless of party, regional or any other member. This is how laws and other acts can be passed that are not in the interest of Croats but work. They are directly against the very interests of the Croats. It is therefore important to implement the BiH Constitutional Court's decision in the Ljubic case that points to the above issues, but also to the nationalist policies of the majority people who do not even want to hear the Constitutional Court's decision to be implemented, rather than just comment. So, in addition to changing a series of other laws, the fundamental assumption of improving the position of the Croatian people is the change of the electoral system, according to the Ljubic ruling, and the actual fundamental changes in the preservation of the constitutional position of the Croatian people should take place with constitutional changes in BiH, which is required to be made in the EU association process, whose candidate is precisely the biggest support and concrete assistance there is in the official policy of Zagreb, which really promotes the real friend and sincere neighbour of BiH. Deeply convinced of the change in the political constitution in part of Bosniak politics, we believe that this will be the most correct approach to resolving the problem in BiH as well as the open Croatian issue. It is a prerequisite for the equality of all constituent peoples in BiH as well as for the balance between civil and national as the only possible correct solution in BiH. We believe this declaration will be a support for this effort and a step in the expected direction of BiH. This way I must thank my colleagues from the youth of BiH, let them hold on, we are always here to keep them safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121884	Thank you very much, we will now move to the closing words on behalf of the Club of Representatives and will first speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the finally respected representative of Željko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121885	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, here after a full-day debate on the declaration, I believe that we can be satisfied with all those spoken today in the Croatian Parliament for the reason that I am independent of the assessment that it is only a declaration, that it is limited by its scope and influence, that this is one shift in terms of understanding of the opportunities in BiH at least when it comes to the Croatian Parliament, which will be the instrument of course in the real frameworks and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the dimension of promoting discussions from the Croatian Parliament and the conclusions of Friday's declaration in the Croatian Parliament on politics towards BiH and looking for partners in the EU to change the position of the Croatian people in BiH. To ensure legitimate representation and to approach in a more realistic way all the delusions created in political life not only in BiH, the Republic of Croatia and the European political public when it comes to the debate on the balance between national and civil life, when it comes to BiH's political life. In discussions, political debates at European forums are understood as it has been for many years, such as the transition from Dayton to the European phase of BiH. But what is forgotten in these discussions, and what is particularly important is the fact that unlike a number of European countries in BiH, there is no Bosnian-Herzegovina nation, especially there is no Bosnian nation, even Bosniaks who have been advocates and these types of manipulation gave up on such a project. The fact that there is no Bosnian-Herzegovina nation in BiH or the fact that there are three nations in BiH, three political entities, Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats, says too much is being risked when it comes to peace, stability and development of BiH, when everything in good work has been balanced in the Dayton solutions for BiH, because of the influence of lobbying and different interests is being realised through the principle of one man, one vote, the principle of liberal democracy that can be practiced in countries where there are built nations, in Germany, Italy, a number of other countries. What can be a role model for European diplomacy, European forums, advocating the Republic of Croatia to help Croats in BiH is precisely undermining these concepts, the importance of these concepts, the real impact of these concepts in BiH's political life, and it will always be so that those most in a multinational country fall into temptation, hence the ambition of domination over others, and the domination in multinational countries has always been the source of conflict and collapse of such countries. However, the temptation and ambition of domination is what has been checked in the history of multinational countries something that those who are more often give up, regardless of the fact that they are aware at the end of the road to work against themselves. That's how it happens in BiH, unfortunately. But regardless of all this, I appreciate that the need for dialogue among the peoples of BiH will overcome all the ambitions of dominating one another, the assistance of the Republic of Croatia in this direction is important, lobbying European institutions also appreciate that the HDZ Club will try to reach common positions during tomorrow. about the amendments proposed by other clubs and voted on Friday's Declaration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121886	Thank you very much. Next club for the Living Wall and the Power Force. The esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121887	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. So, I've been listening very carefully to the debate all day, here with you. I must say, in 1992, I started volunteering in the line of the HOS. I have never been a member of the HSP nor will I be, but there was one thing that was very good for me in that unit, and that was that the Croats and Bosniaks were allies, friends and brothers who together defended the Republic of Croatia long before the war in BiH began. As much memory serves me, I think that at least 30% of the Hoss were from Bosnia, Bosniaks, Muslim religions, and all of them, therefore, the great heart, were very bravely defending our country along with us. This same mood, belief can testify today, so I simply believe that Bosniaks do not represent the enemies of the Croats, and I think it would be necessary to agree with the Bosniaks at the very least, if we cannot unite with them. This policy, which goes towards co-ordinating with Milorad Dodik, means with the holder of a large-scale Serbian policy with Republika Srpska, is extremely unacceptable to me and I simply find that for the interests of the Croatian people in BiH it is extremely harmful, and by the way, I would like to point out once again, that the war between Bosniaks and Croats is the greatest foreign political defeat of modern Croatia. Listening to this discussion of yours, I couldn't figure it out in the end, what did the writer mean? Is this a declaration of the position of Croats in BiH, is this a declaration of HDZ position in BiH, is this a declaration of electoral law or is this a declaration of Mr Dragan Covic? If this is a declaration from Mr. Covic, and I've gotten the impression that this is the main reason why this debate took place, then I have to say that this man is a living wall in no way able to support it, not only because he is working with Milorad Dodik, most closely, means a man who thinks Ratko Mladic is a great hero, and who therefore believes that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, but a man who is known as ( 04:10) a driver of a deep state, is extremely harmful to all possible interests of the Croatian people in BiH. If you ask me if I would like Mr. Covic to be in the BiH presidency, I will tell you that, not only would I like to, but I would like all three representatives to be HDZ. Of course, it is theoretically not possible, but I would love it, but then it would finally turn on the masks and then finally see that the HDZ policy in Bosnia leads to results that represent therefore, increasing corruption, emigration, poverty and ultimately the disappearance of Croats in BiH. You did not convince us that this declaration has any positive effect for the Croats in BiH because among other things, there is serious doubt among the ranks that it is only a party interest to manipulate the votes of Croats in BiH and to receive electoral support, primarily in Croatia itself, both at national and local level. For this reason, the Living Wall will not support the text of the BiH declaration, and we also call on, although we know it will be very difficult, but we call on the Croats in BiH to give their votes to the Living Wall, if they really want prosperity, a better future and a higher standard, an unburdened future of the past and all the evil things that came from nationalist and religious exclusive policies in the early 1990s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121888	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, Prime Minister Marija Pejcinovic will speak. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I have to interrupt, I didn't see, I just got a final call from the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121889	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate lasted over 10 hours, and there was not even a single break during the debate. She was one, coerced. What must be the main message of this declaration? One is respect for international contracts, the other is respect for the rule of law. This is what no one can object to us to step out of something that is a diplomatic practice and is a good practice of relations between states. So we know very well where the boundaries are, where we show the documents even though some people think we don't. And we also think we know what is allowed and what is not allowed in the relations of the two sovereign states. Therefore, the expectation of respect for international agreements and governments, which includes the judgments of international courts and domestic courts, is something that we can warn about. There are some things we can find out, not just in our neighbouring countries, we can figure out anywhere in the world, and that shouldn't be a problem. The way we do this must not go beyond the usual diplomatic practices, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and therefore the Vice-President and Foreign Minister here must worry about it. Also, I think that we must place emphasis in the declaration on the obligations of the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia and in one part mentions local self-government in order to improve the position of Croats in BiH, that we must clearly and condemn certain phenomena in the declaration that it would not be, to express in a dictionary which is unblemished, so it is no problem to express the position in which something is condemned and also to speak in our discussions with very careful words in a way that will not hurt anyone, which we will clearly express our position. I hope that in the decision-making process on the proposed amendments of clubs that have proposed that we achieve a sufficient level of agreement that the declaration can be made with a decent number of votes, if this does not happen, the SDP Club will, in its efforts, advocate the preservation of BiH's territorial integrity, preserve the equality of the constituent peoples of BiH where it is preserved, and reach where it is not reached. To improve the status of the Croatian people in BiH and wherever he lives, which is our constitutional task, to preserve the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the international community that Croatian citizens would not suffer the consequences of the bad decisions of Croatian political elites, as they say. And finally to achieve European standards in our neighbourhood that these countries will join the EU as soon as possible. There is no doubt that the amendment to the electoral law in BiH, that it will undoubtedly be one of the conditions for the country's entry into the EU, is primarily because, in their legislation, it is contrary to the European Convention on European Rights and in the same way that some standards have been asked of Croatia, so we as an EU member in the process of negotiations will ask other countries to meet certain standards. It would have been better if it had happened a long time ago. We also do not need to be defensive about the international community because for the good part of the thing that happened there they bear responsibility. Therefore, in order to contribute to the objectives of, the noble objectives that this declaration should have, we remain at our disposal for further discussions on this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121890	Thank you very much. The Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Mrs Marija Pejcinovic, will now speak on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121891	... I would first of all like to thank Mr Ljubic and Mr Raguž, our representatives on the initiative to adopt this declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, but also on the parent board, the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We think that today's debate has shown how important it was to discuss this, we don't have to agree with everything we've heard, we don't have to, maybe it wasn't all about the subject we talked about, but I think the length of the debate and the number of those who took the word showed that it was really the right time and that it was good that we did it. We hope that the amendments that have been submitted will be constructive and that the declaration will be able to be adopted with as broad a consensus as possible, because this is nevertheless a declaration of the Croatian Parliament and it would be very good to show as much unity as possible about what we think and what we want for the Croatian people in BiH. It is an extremely important document, the position of Croats as one of the three constituent peoples in BiH, and as such is supported by the Croatian government. The value of this declaration is in a clear and unequivocal message, supporting the Croatian people in BiH, as well as the message of friendship to BiH itself, the country of three constituent and equal peoples. I hope that this declaration of the position of the Croatian people in BiH will be a demonstration of support for all of us independently of our political and any other belonging. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121892	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Bozo Ljubic will speak for himself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121893	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President HS, thank all the colleagues and colleagues who have discussed today, especially those who have had the energy and patience to stay until these hours, thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Ms. Marija Burić Pejcinović and her associates and co-workers and state secretary, Mrs. Busic, State Secretary Mr. Milos, Assistant Minister Grigic, State Secretary Zgombić Metelko, and may say at the end of this debate that I, as the motionor or person speaking on behalf of the Committee... The Republic of Croatia is pleased with the tone of this debate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, different views were heard, with some of them agreed, I did not agree with some, but the most important thing and gain is, therefore, this debate that we put this important topic of strategic state and national interest for the Republic of Croatia into the focus of the Croatian political all-public. I think we also sent word to the Croats in BiH that the Republic of Croatia is with them. On the other hand, I think that we have shed light on the importance of BiH and the decisions made in BiH, including those that make them and here, today HINA reports tonight, the first decision by the BiH presidency is that the presidency unanimously decided to send a note to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the depositary of the former state's conflict agreement on the implementation of the Croatian Law on the availability of state property that according to the presidency's decision, it violates the Agreement on Succession. Therefore, these two countries are actually directed towards each other and, as counterpart Tudjman said in his debate, even if there were no Croats in BiH, the Republic of Croatia is therefore engaged in BiH. On the other hand, unfortunately, because of the still unfinished state, I will say it on my behalf, BiH is still, therefore, and a certain cause of concern, especially for its neighbours. I will, here, quote or paraphrase better, couple to say the views of independents, so even non-political people at this point. So, Bogic Bogicevic, a member of the presidency of the former state, we all know that this is the person who prevented the JNA from hitting the presidency, says, 3.5 this year, this country has not even seen, sowing calls for a new war, BiH has failed and still opened a project of world forces. Wesley Clark, a former NATO commander under whose command peace was established in the Balkans for Washington Post in April 2018, says the Balkans will explode, the EU and the United States must react immediately. And while the United States and Europe are asleep, other forces are taking over the domination, and then Nautica is referred to there, and the Kremlin, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, etc. Jonathan Ileviki, former adviser to Richard Holbrooke, the creator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, warns, there is a tendency to say, quote, creating stability status when it comes to BiH, the situation in BiH is static. The fact that the situation is static, all these years doesn't mean that it's a stable situation, in reality it becomes in one hand, less stable. So these are the grades of people who actually because of the foundation of the position, so in the former administration of world forces, the International Organisations, talk about where they used to be participated. I'm going to be a little personal here now, so maybe even abuse my position to speak on behalf of the promoter. I was therefore the first minister in the Government of the Republic and the Federation of BiH after Washington, before Dayton. And of course, as Minister of Health, I took care of everything that was going on in BiH, especially the death of BiH citizens of all the peoples and all the armies, if you will. And I was happy when that Dayton Agreement was signed because I knew every day of the war, every new day of the war, meant dozens of new deaths and injuries. However, as Sarajevo was still at war then, the only place in the city where there was occasional electricity and water, where there could be relatively safe residence in one wing of the Holiday Inn, all of us Croatian ministers delegated by the HDZ of BiH from Mostar, we lived in the Holiday Inn, and for three years we hung out as in the monastery practically. And the Croatian negotiator on behalf of the Croats from BiH Krešimir Zubac comes from Dayton and to us, therefore, one evening in the Dayton basement, so Holiday Inn says what kind of agreement has been reached. I tell him like this, Cresso, if such a state ever works, I'll burn all my diplomas, from primary school to doctorate science because it would mean that in life I didn't learn anything. All my diplomas are still, unfortunately, complete. Therefore, it is the problem of BiH and it is the problem of all its peoples and all its citizens. And as a friend of BiH, the Republic of BiH, which supports BiH's Euro Integrations, NATO integrations, I think it also needs to point to some of the things that the country should do, therefore, more usable, as it should be made more acceptable for all its peoples, because it will then be more stable. Today there have been a lot of talk about it and I think we absolutely rejected all the Stigms and all the insinuations about the alleged interference of the Republic of Croatia on the internal bih issue. And I don't think there's any need to talk about it right now. What we all need to know here and here I agree, with some colleagues and some amendments that propose to valorise the role of Croats, in fact, to establish Croats from the BiH and establish the Republic of Croatia and its defence, especially the Croatian force of HVO. That the Croats had not intervened, therefore, when Croatia was attacked in '91. Sir, perhaps today wouldn't be Croatia. My colleague Škorić said it nicely, it seems to me that he was quoting Mayor Oparu, when he spoke where the interests of Split were, that they were in depth, background, all the way to Kupres. So, when two Corpses, tanking, tank brigades, headed towards Kupres, did not go through Kupres, they headed towards Trilj to cross Croatia at some next stage, not to Zadar, but to Split. So then, the Broad-Brands, my parents were on their way to the border of the Broad-Brands and the Mostars and they stopped that column and they said we're not going to Trill, we're going to Kupres, etc. Not to mention, the role of Croats in defense, etc. On the other hand, if Croatia had not intervened when the Croats were attacked in BIH and when BIH were attacked in various ways, by supplying weapons, by reporting refugees from the BiH, by all nations and by the largest number of Bosniaks from the BIH, that Croatia was not based on interstate agreements signed by Mr. Tudjman and Mr. Izetbegovic, involved in free operations, I fear that, at the very least, in the Bihaća region, Genocide, would have happened multiple times as Srebrenica. Therefore, these things should actually be recognized and valorized in the right way. The Croats in the BIH, and therefore, have defined their strategy and no one has the right to say any more, you don't know what you want, we would help you but you don't know what you want. The captures of the BIH have joined the association of the Croatian National Assembly of the BIH, which numbers 13 parties, here I am still president of the g. The councils of this association and we have six declarations so far adopted, since the first declaration from Novi Travnik, so, the HNS established, when we met, met with the first signs of deconstitulation in 2001, following the imposed rules of the then OSCE representatives Beri and the amendment of Mr Petric, and then the following to the declaration that was brought four years ago and these declarations we define exactly what state we stand for, and even its constitutional structure. It is therefore not appropriate, therefore, that I speak from this position, the MPs in this House, or that the Government or the Parliament prescribes a solution. However, what Croatia can and should do, which is to support solutions that will be based on Dayton principles, and the Dayton principles are correct because they define BIH primarily, State 3 equal constituent peoples. Unfortunately, the Croats in the BIH, and that was the talk, and that's what my colleague Raguž was talking about, so at this point we got one situation, we can't choose legitimate representatives, the Bureau of the BIH, trying to eliminate us from the Federation government. On the Council of Ministers, this will not be possible because there is still a match in three, but we who do not have the media, to say the possibilities, to communicate either with each other, so the Croats from Neum and the Croatians from Orsaj are not able to meet themselves until the end, and in particular to get to know Croatians wider, here and the European public in their position, Croatia is needed here. So we are not able to stand up to this narrative, whether separatist or unitarian but that is why Croatia can do it and Croatia does it of course. So, to conclude, Croatia does not need to interfere or interfere with the internal issues of the BIH, but, of course, Croatia should interfere with its obligations if, according to the Croats, the kind of agreements Croatia has signed. What I can say now in conclusion, before then, tomorrow and before Friday, when I expect this declaration to be voted, I have received amendments, I have not had the opportunity, I have tried to follow this debate quickly to read, however, I believe that with good will, therefore, with the approach we have witnessed here today, on all sides of the assembly, we can come to a solution that will be acceptable to a broad consensus on this declaration. I would like to appeal in this way, to all those who will participate in this tomorrow, to approach it in good faith, constructively, and then on Friday to declare this declaration with the largest majority possible in this House, because it will be a message to all those who do so, to use that phrase. And in my opening statement, I made it clear who that concerns. I thank you all and I wish you the rest of the evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121894	We have a replica of Ivan Shuker's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121895	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Ljubic, at the end of today's debate, may have spoken to many colleagues today, and it would have been a little ugly to read the Declaration of Homeland War, which was adopted in this high school, I think in October or November 2000 with practically... Then they'd see how much they don't know their own history, and I can't talk about someone else's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will only read to you, quote one part of this declaration, my colleague Bušić and I were only then in the Croatian Parliament and the reason for its adoption, says, to stop the radical politicisation of the Homeland War and the worrying polarisation of Croatian society, which can have far-reaching consequences of the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives, the Croatian National Assembly brings the Declaration of Homeland War. And then he continues to talk about the unity of the country's evicted Croatia, the unity of all Croats. And maybe a lot of people today needed that Declaration to remember and not speak, no... This question the way you've... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121896	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues will now move to a statement on the amendments to the latest proposal, therefore, on the proposal for an HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. We have, if you're accidentally interested in what we're doing here, then we have 21 amendments to that proposal. Once we've done these amendments, after that, if any club wants to be able to take the club's positions, and then we'll approach the vote, I predict it'll be somewhere in two hours. Here, so we can kind of know how to schedule your time. As I said, therefore, we will now move to a statement on the amendments to the proposal of the HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. The bearer is the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ representative club, the MOST representative club and the SDP representative club. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the The Rules of Procedure, the amendments shall be declared by the Proposer, and by the Government if he is not the Proposer. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, which is the Honored Chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, colleague Bozo Ljubic, and we will begin with the first Amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121898	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State, Amendment 1 of the HDZ Club, the amendment is partly accepted, and it is changed and said: Respecting the role and importance of the HVO in BiH's defence, we welcome the resolution of the status existential issues of the defence population, the disabled and the victims of the Homeland War. A brief explanation, it is an important element showing the unity of Croats in the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121899	I would like to ask the Government's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Zdravko Busic, to... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121900	The government agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121901	The 2nd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm asking the club to...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121902	The HDZ Club accepts the amendment in changed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121903	Thank you very much. I now ask that the motionary declare himself on the second Amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121904	The second amendment shall be accepted in full.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121905	The Government's representative is a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121906	The government also agrees with the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121907	A representative of the club, a respected representative of Raguž, becomes an integral part of the Law. Let's go to the proposal of the club representative of the Independent Lists, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121908	The amendment is not accepted first. The reasons for the proposed activities are covered by the existing text, but not one, and are partly contrary to the rules of diplomatic conduct. In the current text of the Declaration, the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are called on to report first row the signatories and guarantees of the Washington-Declan Peace Agreement, which are members of the Council for... BiH, and the UN Security Council whose mandate is the Office of the High Representative of BiH. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, of course, involves the reporting of other international institutions, such as the Council of Europe, the USS and other institutions proposed by the Amendment. Furthermore, in Amendment 2 of the HDZ Representatives Club, which is fully accepted, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report to the HS once a year on the implementation of this Declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121909	Please show the government's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121910	The government agrees with the stand of resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121911	I'd like a representative of the club, the esteemed representative of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121912	You do not want to accept that the Republic of Croatia is making every effort to fulfil constitutional duties, that the Republic of Croatia, in addition to reporting to the members of the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, reports and asks for reactions from not only that council but also other not less important international institutions, which we have listed to you, from the Human Rights Council of the United Nations, from the Council of the EU, from the European Council, from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and from the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. You could've done all that. You refused all that. In addition, we asked precisely this amendment to be clearly specified, to get inside how many times a year it will be necessary to report these institutions so as not to transfer the responsibility of these competent authorities, that it is also given to the Croatian body by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and these international institutions. You said no. What you have done, you have said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will report to the Croatian Parliament, and to remind you that you have changed the Rules of Procedure with this ruling majority, and these reports, which will be sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will be read on parliamentary committees, not here. MPs as well as the public won't know what's going on with the Croats in BiH. I will tell you that you have hypocritically again offered a false hand of peace and helped the Croats in BiH. You left them again in the wind, to the mercy and mercy of others. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121913	Thank you. Amendment No. 2 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121914	Amendment number two is not accepted. The proposed amendment does not comply with the subject-matter and objectives of the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121915	A representative of the government, a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121916	The government also agrees with the board's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121917	In the name of the club, respected representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121918	Mr Ljubic, as representatives of the Croats from BiH, you hereby refuse that these Croats, as well as Croatian citizens, have the right to a fair vote. You refuse to do so, I will remind the parliamentary representatives that I will also remind the Croatian public who is watching at the moment. It was you from the HDZ Club with the SDP assistance in 2010 that abolished the right vote for those Croats in BiH, that abolished the correspondence vote that we have now given you the opportunity to return it. You've abolished it, you reject it now. As for the electronic vote that you also refused by this amendment and the electronic vote requested by the European Parliament, he sent the letter to both the Croatian Parliament and the Government. I will remind you once again, on page 60 of your party's pre-election programme, in 2016 that you will introduce an electronic vote, where the problem is, so is it not democratic gain and other countries such as Finland, Norway, a letter vote, so if other countries can vote electronically so why not allow both Croatian citizens and Croats in BiH to have a fair ability to vote, so to be chosen and to choose a fundamental human right. You remove him, Mr. Ljubic, and defend the government's position, I ask you to think about it one more time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121919	Amendment number 3. The bridge of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121920	Amendment 3 is not accepted. The reasons for these proposals are contained in the current text of the declaration, namely the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, which particularly highlights the role and importance of the HVO in the defence of BiH and advocates a solution to the status and existential issues of the defence population, persons with disabilities and victims of the Homeland War. Furthermore, this is already reflected in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. In addition to point 5 of the declaration, I quote: "The Croatian Parliament expects the lighting of all unsolved cases of Croatian murders in BiH from returnees to top officials and the effective processing of war crimes with the exact same treatment of members of all peoples and the removal of any political connotations from such cases, including the treatment of all war operations with full respect for interstate agreements on which they were legally founded and encourages the strengthening of the cooperation of the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia and BiH. "In fact, all of what you have asked for it is.../incomprehensible/... sublimed in this declaration and the amendment of the HDZ that has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121921	In the name of the Government, a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121922	And in this case, the government is quite in agreement with the board's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121923	On behalf of the club.../Intruder Bozo Petrov: Dear Chairman, I must make an observation before you let me go I would ask you to freeze the current countdown of time, which is what it is. As I understand it, dear colleague Ljubic said he accepts our amendment, saying that our amendment has already been incorporated into the declaration, and I will remind Mr Ljubic/... do not wait Like this, good. [[Intruder Bozo Petrov: If this didn't stand, so I don't know if he accepted whether our amendment is exactly like this, is there a word of legal aid before I start to explain the amendment]] Please tell if you accept or do not accept a colleague, Ljubic. [[Intruder Bozo Petrov: I would like an explanation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121924	The amendment is not accepted, but in an explanation is stated in fact that what is requested in the amendment has been sublimed. [[Okay, you've explained everything else.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121925	Honorable representative Petrov on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121926	Then he would be, I apologize, then he was a lapus linguae Mr Ljubic, a respected representative of Ljubic I will say that you, as representatives of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, refuse to give legal assistance to the defenders of the Croatian Council of Defence that you know are systematically discriminated against by the laws, before the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that they are generally tried under a different and stricter law. You refuse to give them legal aid with this. Don't try to get away with it. Never try to defend yourself with your party's position. You're free people. You choose the party you will be in and when you choose the party then choose its positions. The HDZ position as I understand it and your position is personally not to give legal assistance to the defenders of the Croatian Defence Council. I remind you of the esteemed fellow MPs, the face has no price and the people remember, especially those who come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will see when it is voted in a few hours on these amendments whether the parliamentary representatives of the other like now Mr Ljubic will also let down the defenders of the Croatian Defence Council, both Croatian students and Croatian people. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121927	The fourth amendment is also a Club of Representatives of the Most – Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121928	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation. The proposed amendment is not in line with the subject and objectives of the Declaration and discriminatory for part of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition, it is important to stress that this issue is being successfully realised in the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, whose reports have been regularly accepted in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121929	In the name of the Government, a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121930	I fully agree with the Committee's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121931	On behalf of the Club, a respected representative of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121932	Representative Ljubic, I will explain to the Croatian public. You refuse. So it's clear what you're refusing to do. You refuse to be fair to all Croats regardless of where they come from and whether they live in the Republic of Croatia or are Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they can rightly ask whose views and who you defend. I will also say that my colleague Bauk has confirmed to me that the SDPs will not vote for your Declaration, and that means that you've been messing around so much, so much trade, you've tried so hard to get everyone to like it that you've diluted the already existing Declaration with the SDP amendments, and they won't support them. You've been fooled. You've been transported by the thirsty across the water. You understand what they did to you? They made fun of you, you don't see it. Poor people. The poor people you defend like this, Mr. Ljubic. You had a chance. You made your first proposal, and that's what I'm going to tell you for the end. The first proposal for the Declaration was concrete gentlemen of the representatives and dear Croatian public, it was concrete. All these amendments were standing we offered in the first draft. Everything changed in ten days. And I'll ask you a question, Mr. Ljubic. Who, when he forced you to trample your word and your views to forget the Croats and the Croatian people who are here to defend you from divulging the additional Declaration, to adopt additional SDP amendments and they cheat you at the end of the scam? And will you, as in 2010, give the Croats even less rights? That's when they lost the letter vote. Is he going to lose everything now? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121933	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to the amendments to the SDP Representatives Club. Please be advised of the 1st amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121934	Amendment 1 is not accepted. Explanation. The current title and content of the proposal for a declaration fully reflect the objectives which the Declaration seeks to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121935	Government position, please, Your Honor, Secretary of State. On behalf of the Club, respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121936	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have proposed this amendment precisely to better reflect the meaning and purpose for which it is brought. So it is not the purpose and purpose of just pointing to the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know that here, and the Croats themselves in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The point of this Declaration is to see what Croatia can do to improve their status in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because if that doesn't make sense, then she really doesn't make sense. That is why we have therefore proposed a change in the name of the Declaration, that it is a declaration of activities needed by the Republic of Croatia to improve the status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not the Parliament's task to discuss the Constitution, election laws or the internal political situation in the neighbouring country. That's what we do for our country. But the Council's task is under the Constitution, so we have a Committee on Croatians outside Croatia to discuss Croats living outside our country, including those in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why we suggested. Foreign policy under the Constitution defines the President of the State and Government. There is therefore no involvement of the Parliament in this, but of course he has the right to say what he thinks about the status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in what way and what the country's state authorities should do to improve it. And as for the position of the SDP, I would ask Mr. Petrov to leave Mr. Bauk to tell Mr. Bauk what the SDP Club will do because the SDPs don't need a stickler in the way of the Bridge. What Most thought, he showed in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121937	Are you asking for a vote or what? Yeah. [[Intruder Klisović: Yes.]] 2nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121938	Amendment number 2 of the SDP is not accepted. Explanation. The amendment does not correct the expression while a key message of agreement is lost at the same time as the only way to make progress, strengthen trust in federal multinational communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121939	The government's position. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121940	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121941	In the name of the club will the obviously respected representative of the Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121942	Thank you. If our amendment to the 6th Preamble was accepted, it would read: "Indicating that the three constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are Bosniaks, and Croats and Serbs are a constitutional category and that in the federal multinational community what Bosnia and Herzegovina is unequivocal is, stability and progress can be achieved by agreeing and using mechanisms that strengthen mutual trust in strict respect of the constitutional order." Nothing of the importance of the message would be lost, except that the absence of the word "only" would have taken us off from ourselves that we think we are authorized to interpret how things should be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina alone and in no way different way. And because of that, because of the correctness towards the neighbouring internationally recognised and sovereign state that we are not being tutorial and that we are telling them that it can only be otherwise, I am asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121943	Thank you. 3rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121944	Amendment 3 is partially accepted and I would ask that we listen carefully to the explanation. Since the SDP amendment is explained, I quote: "We consider the 2013 party leader agreement not to be a place in the Croatian Parliament Declaration to be important if it is accompanied by the relevant statements by the European Union body." In view of the fact that the contents and messages of paragraph 7. The declarations are set out in the European Parliament Resolution of 6 February 2014 on a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress. Namely in point 2. The resolution reads as follows: "It welcomes the 6 points of the agreement reached in Brussels on 1 October 2013, but regrets that the centralist forces are obstructing its implementation. It stresses that it is important to follow the principles of federalism and legitimate representation in order to ensure BiH's path to the EU." Following this explanation of the SDP on the Committee, he agreed to remain the existing text of the Declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121945	We agree with the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121946	First the government. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121947	The government is in agreement with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121948	Dear Representative Bauk on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121949	We agree with the explanation and we withdraw the amendment. Thank you. So we agree with Mr Ljubic's explanation and accept what he said and do not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121950	About that, but that explanation becomes an integral part of the amendment, this Declaration. Excuse me. It becomes an integral part of the Declaration. Okay. Amendment number 4 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121951	Amendment number four is accepted. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121952	It becomes an integral part of the Declaration. Amendment number 5. Excuse me. Government opinion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121953	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121954	Okay. Amendment number 5 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121955	The amendment shall be accepted in part and amended in a way that the first word referred to in paragraph 11 is changed and reads as follows: 'Remembrance'. Explanation. The rest of the amendment is not in line with the objective of the Declaration, which is related to the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121956	Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121957	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121958	Just a little buddy Bauk. The Government's representative is a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121959	The government is in agreement with the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121960	On behalf of the Club, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121961	Can the secretary of state say that the government is in agreement with all the views of the Committee, so that, when it is. Right? So, as far as formality is concerned. Although this is not the intensity of our amendment, this partial acceptance, in our view, corrects the text of the Declaration, so we agree with partial vision, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will ask for a vote on the remainder of our amendment. Right? Okay. Therefore, our amendment reads: "Noting that the current electoral law does not guarantee the legitimate representation of representatives of the constituent peoples in the BiH presidency, which is not in line with the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement, although it does not question the legality of the election of elected officials so far. And two. It does not allow all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to run as opposed to the European Convention on Human Rights." This first part was said by Mr Miroslav Lajcak that he was not in the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement. We believe that it is useful for the purpose of the Declaration and obviously we do not have the same view of the objective of the Declaration, that, in the text of the Declaration, given the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister, the legality of the election of elected officials is not disputed. That's what the vice president said. And secondly, to include in this part Seidic – the European Court of Human Rights. Namely, the intensity of this Declaration is that in one way or another we demand a change of the Constitution and the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we are not doing this because we want to because we have no right to do so, but because this is what the European Court of Human Rights and its constitutional judgments obliges the neighbouring state. And it should be a message not because we want it, because I think we should not ask for it, but because it is required by the rule of law and international contracts. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121962	So, if I can well interpret you, you agree with the first part that becomes an integral part of the Declaration, and in the second part you are asking for a vote. Right? Okay. Thank you. 6th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121963	Amendment 6 is not accepted. Explanation. The amendment proposes nothing new than the current text.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121964	In the name of the Government, a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121965	... Consent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121966	On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121967	As I explained in the previous explanation of the amendment, therefore, this valid text says, noting the key importance of amending BiH's electoral law, so perhaps the importance of amending BiH's electoral law is crucial, but it is crucial for BiH. For HS, international agreements and rule of law are relevant, and would therefore reform it in a way that highlights the importance of implementing the BiH Constitutional Court decision, the case in Ljubic and Mostar cases, in order to remove the possibility of electing Croatian officials without Croatian electoral legitimacy in the House of Peoples of the Federation, especially the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So the important message is, we're not looking for our message, that you change your laws because you're a sovereign state, and the kingdom of the kingdom doesn't prescribe the laws was said in HS or in Pojun in 1790. But we have the right to demand respect for international contracts and respect for the rule of law. It is also as a country that has aspirations to join the EU out of duty as a member of the EU. And that would be, that would dull all the blades that go to the Republic of Croatia to interfere with the internal affairs of another country and that's why we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121968	Now we're going to the 7th Amendment Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121969	The amendment has been withdrawn as long as I have the records here. So, if I may Since it was said in the explanation that the term we asked for was deleted in the same way as mentioned in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, we accepted the explanation and we withdraw the Amendment. [[Intruder: Of course]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121970	So, the amendment was withdrawn, okay. Amendment number 8 of the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121971	Amendment No. 8 is partly accepted, and the text in chapter 16 behind the words, the year, changes and reads, which also gives the political and technical assistance of the Republic of Croatia a significant contribution, an explanation, is important in the Declaration, the important contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the European path of BiH, therefore, is an emphasis on this and, which means that not only the Republic has contributed, but the Republic of Croatia has also made a contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121972	Government's position, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121973	Yes, the government is consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121974	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121975	Since it is an express matter that does not change the essence of the Declaration, we accept this explanation for Amendment 8 and Amendment 9, as it was said yesterday on the Committee if Mr Ljubic read so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121976	So, he's retired, you're withdrawing the amendment. You accept in the modified form, therefore, the text, that and becomes an integral part of the Declaration. Thank you. I must also say Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121977	Amendment 9 is accepted in part, and in the text in section 17, after the words of the year, it is changed and said, I quote, in which the political and technical assistance of the Republic of Croatia was of great importance. The explanation, therefore, is important in the Declaration to highlight the importance of the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the Euro-Atlantic aspirations of BiH, of course, this also implies that the Republic of Croatia has contributed to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121978	In the name of the government respected State Secretary, you've already accepted this, if I've got my colleague Bauk well understood and become an integral part of the Declaration, so. Now we're going to the amendment of the 10 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121979	Amendment 10 is partly accepted so that in the 20th Preamble of the text is changed and said, stressing the importance of bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, the HS welcomes the commitment of all the current Governments of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen relations with BiH, especially the joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers, so the continuation of this text is as it was in the original text of the Declaration. So, the emphasis is that it has changed instead of the government of the Republic of Croatia, all of the governments so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121980	Government position, please, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121981	The government agrees with this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121982	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121983	Thank you. We also agree in part with the proposal's explanation, so we accept this first part, and we are asking for a vote on the rest of our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121984	Okay, so this first part becomes Okay. [[/Bauquet: What Mr Ljubic reads becomes an integral part of the proposal. We're looking for an entire amendment to vote, what's not accepted.]] Amendment No. 11th Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121985	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121986	Amendment No. Twelve club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121987	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation, the amendment is not in line with the goal of the Declaration concerning the position of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121988	The government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121989	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121990	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121991	The amendment is complete and free of any remainder in accordance with the purpose of the Declaration as we see it, and I will read the amendment one more time. The HS condemns all procedures and policies that it had or aimed at disintegration of BiH, its division, the threat of territorial integrity, and the violation of constituent peoples and citizens, which is not in line with the objectives. There will be no violation of the equality of the constituent peoples and citizens. The threat of territorial integrity won't happen. The division of BiH will not be. Disintegration of BiH, that's not it. So what's wrong with it? I hope it's not some of this contrary to the cause of the Declaration. That's why we can't accept the Declaration either, because of this amendment. So, we can't, we don't want to carry the burden of HDZ's 90s policy towards BiH, so get rid of that burden and then ask us to share. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121992	Amendment number 13 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121993	The amendment is fully accepted, only the word ‘case’ is changed to the word ‘item’ with which the applicant agreed on the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121994	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121995	Thank you very much. So it's accepted. Amendment number 14 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121996	The amendment shall be partially accepted and the word ‘necessary’ shall be deleted in the text of point 4. Explanation. The proposed text is essentially no different from the existing text. It agrees that the accepted amendment improves the expression of this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121997	The government's position is a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121998	The government's position is consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u121999	On behalf of the Club, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122000	Vice-President, since although the formal proposal has used our amendment to correct its text, since this correction corrects the text, we agree that what Mr Ljubic reads becomes an integral part of the Declaration. And because we believe that our emphasis as the friendly neighbouring countries of another sovereign state must be on respecting international obligations and respecting the rule of law rather than on the expressions that imply interference in their internal political relations and we ask that it amend the law because we think it is necessary, that this statement that puts emphasis on the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than the European Court of Human Rights, is better than that we say that the process of amending electoral legislation that will ensure that, etc. That's why we're asking for a vote on the resignation of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122001	So you're asking for a vote on amendments? Yeah. And finally Article 15. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122002	Amendment 15 is not accepted. Explanation. The text of this amendment implies that Croatia has interfered or intends to interfere with the internal issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not true and I hope that even a colleague of the SDP with their amendment did not want to conclude this because, in this very point of the preamble of this Declaration, it is said that the Croatian Parliament strongly supports the integrity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that through all the points of the Declaration this additional... In this way, everything falls off so as to say the Stigme or insinuation that this Declaration in any way would want what is here and this amendment with which he had previously not been satisfied with his colleague Bauk to deny it. [[You don't understand.]] So I absolutely reject any stigma that Croatia intends to interfere with the internal issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122003	The government's position, respecting Secretary of State Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122004	The government absolutely agrees with the views of this Committee and the chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122005	On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122006	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Ljubic, honourable government representatives. This amendment does not insinuate anything. This amendment shows a clear view of the Republic of Croatia which, I will read to you, the Croatian Parliament is asking all state authorities to respect the principle of non-interference in the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the implementation of this Declaration. Well, look. If you want to have any relations, especially good neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, you must respect this principle. The principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries is our obligation under the Charter of the United Nations. And above all, this principle is a principle which obviously, if you refuse to refuse this amendment, differs between SDP and HDZ policy. We'll never be part of a policy that advocates meddling in neighbouring country's internal affairs. That's why we don't see what's controversial about this amendment. This is the political stance of the Croatian Parliament asking all state authorities to respect the literal principle of non-interference in the domestic affairs of the neighbouring country in implementing measures towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the matter with that? Nothing for us. For those who have a opposite, different political stance, and exactly the opposite political stance has led to many of the problems that Croats today have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the treatment of Croats by their partners in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122007	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. Okay. That's what we're done with this point and as we announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122008	We are now going to the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH, the applicant is the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, the SDP Representatives' Club. We have held a statement on the amendments at the beginning of today's session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant and the Government do not accept. So let's go in order, is the first amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to be accepted in a changed form, as such becomes an integral part of the law. The amendment of two of the same club representatives was accepted. Then we're going to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government and the Proposer does not accept, please let us vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the second amendment of the same club of representatives, the promoter and the government do not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives is not accepted by either the motionor or the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4 of the same club of representatives shall not be accepted by either the applicant or the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're now going to the SDP Representatives' Club Amendments. The first amendment does not accept the applicant, nor does the Government, but we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 2, the Government and the Proposer don't accept it either, so I'm asking you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 3 was adopted in an amended form as accepted by the applicant of the amendment and became an integral part of the Law. Amendment, here's a colleague of the Grmo, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122009	Your Honor. So there was one here, I'd say a case we haven't been able to see yet in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, in accepting the amendment, it is said that only part of the amendment is accepted or only one word is accepted, that is the amendment after is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122010	No, that's not the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122011	All right, after that, we'll hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122012	Now, what, then, shall I give you a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122013	Give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122014	So, you weren't following,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122015	I have sinned. Give me warning. Give me warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122016	I won't give you a warning, because you admit you've made a mistake, but follow, please,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122017	Yeah, I know you guys enjoy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122018	Yeah, I really enjoy that. I'm a famous sadist. The 4th Amendment has been accepted. Let's go to Amendment 5, he's been accepted in an amended form, which the applicant of the amendment has accepted, but he's asking for a vote on the second part of the amendment, and we're not going to accept it, but we're going to vote on the whole amendment because we can't accept... Please don't get in my way, so it's not possible to vote on half the amendment, so we vote on the whole amendment,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, and you can't hear them.]] Are you listening to what I'm saying? [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So we can't vote on half the amendments, we're voting on the amendment as a whole, and we've decided on the Committee that no more statements are made, but we're going to vote. Here you go, comrade Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122019	Your Honor. Therefore, Articles 201 and 202 were injured. Rules of Procedure. Namely, the representative of the HDZ Club, or the representative of the government, said he accepted one word, means that it becomes an integral part of this Declaration, and after that, colleagues from the SDP asked for a vote, meaning the rest of their amendment. So we don't know now no matter what you're saying right now, that we're going to vote on the entire SDP amendment, we don't know what the government representative has accepted and what the text of the Declaration looks like now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122020	Time's up. Comrade Grmoy, the Parliament is autonomous and we don't care what the government said here, we'll decide, the MPs will decide. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122021	Mr. President. I'm not sure I got you all right, but you're gonna explain it to me like I didn't. The practice so far has been that if the proposer accepts the amendment in part, and the one who submitted the amendment disagrees entirely with that, that you agree that the amendment, that the partially accepted amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal and vote on the remainder. If that is not the case, if that is not the case, then we accept the proposal's explanation and do not ask for a vote on the remainder of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122022	Then the amendment in the amended form is an integral part of the Declaration. We're going to the Sixth Amendment, he's not accepting either the motionor or the Government, so we have to vote. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number seven is withdrawn, so we won't even vote. Amendment No 8, which was accepted in the amended form, with which the applicant agreed, it shall become an integral part in the amended form. The 9th Amendment was adopted in the amended form by which the applicant agreed, becoming an integral part of the Law or Declaration. Amendment number 10, accepted in amended form by the applicant, but requesting a vote in the second part of the amendment, so please, what is the position now? One sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122023	We're asking to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122024	Then let's vote on the amendment, because that's what the applicant is asking for. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to amendment number 11, he's been withdrawn. Amendment number 12, neither the motionor nor the Government accepts, so let's vote on it. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 13, was accepted in the amended form, with which the applicant agreed. Amendment No 14, was adopted in the amended form, which was agreed by the applicant for the amendment, but requested a vote on the remainder of the amendment. What's that attitude?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122025	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122026	Then let's vote on this amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the 15th, last amendment, which does not accept either the motionor or the government. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. It's not a replica, I guess. It's something else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122027	The Honorable Chairman. I'm looking for a break for the club's voting consultations, and I must point out that today you turned down absolutely all of the MOST amendments, and not for the reasons that they were unconstructive, they were extremely constructive, but you refused them because we're part of the opposition, you dare even say, you rejected them because you don't care about people. You have rejected amendments relating to assisted areas, mountain-mounted areas, you have refused amendments to criminal law, you have refused amendments to the Croatian Declaration of Position, you have refused to protect people, teachers and teachers from violence in schools, you have refused to help the most underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, where mass people move, you have destroyed their hope, and Christmas. To the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina you have slammed the door in front of your nose, you have left them again as you have left them for the last 25 years, and I will remind you only one thing, by adopting the 5th SDB amendment, you testify to Ljubic v Ljubic and cancel the Constitutional Court Decision, Mr Ljubic. And what I'm going to tell you for the end, I'm going to ask you a question about what you didn't do, where is the law you announced this year? Did you know that by this year, up to today, there have been new 8 million items to be completed? What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122028	Is there another break club on the way? If not, we'll continue at 2:30. SESSION Interrupted at 14.21 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats to proceed with the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] I am voting on the proposal of the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 81 ZA, 4 COUNTRY and 11 votes against, have been passed the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122030	I would now suggest that we unite the following 2 points, so the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Employment Encouragement Act and the Final Proposal of the Labour Market Act. Do you agree to unite them? Here, no one's against it, thank you very much. Then we'll do these two laws by emergency procedure first and second reading. It is the laws: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Employment Encouragement Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 546; - Proposal for a Labour Market Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 545; The Proposer is both Governments of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted the proposal by the Proposer on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda for these legislative proposals to be discussed under an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Pensions and Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric. Here's to both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122031	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, good evening, all of you, respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the Proposal for a Labour Market Act as well as the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Employment Encouragement Act. Well, first of all, I also have to say a few indicative, general data related to the Croatian labour market. So we have a record low unemployment rate since the '90s and RS isolation. Today, the number of unemployed is 147 thousand and 316 people. The unemployment rate is 7.7%, last year was 11.1%). We also have the third highest employment growth rate in the EU of 3.8%, the employment rate has increased to 61.1% compared to last year's 50.2%. We also have 71 thousand more employees compared to the same time last year as 50 thousand involved in active employment policy measures annually. So these are general data that should be highlighted and these are the results of the ministry's work and in general the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Only for employment in the last 2 years has we provided 4.5 billion kuna, which is never again in Croatian history. For this year, these are 2.5 billion kunas, of which 900 million kuna is precisely from the DSF or the European Social Fund. As regards the Labour Market Act, it should be said that it will enable the single organisation of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia and that it will systematically regulate the activities of the Croatian Employment Service, which will contribute to greater employability and strengthen positive labour market developments. It is therefore a matter of harmonising with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions which will enter into force on 1 January of the following year, in the section relating to the abolition of the employment contribution of 1.7% and in the section relating to the mandatory insurance of the seasonal worker in agriculture. The current Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during unemployment provides for a source of funds to finance employment activities, and therefore it is necessary to change the way these activities are financed. The aim of the law itself, as I have already said, is in a unique way to regulate the area of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia and by taking over the content of the applicable Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment and part of the content of the Employment Encouragement Act that will be put out of force. It is important to note here that the abolition of employment contributions will in no way affect the level and scope of rights during unemployment. Therefore, it is guaranteed to retain existing rights during unemployment regardless of the abolition of employment contributions and the funds will be secured in the state budget. It is also guaranteed to retain the right to financial assistance within the same range and height and constant season and person on professional employment for work without establishing a working relationship. Since a contribution to employment is abolished in an appropriate manner, this law will lay down the conditions for the exercise of rights during the period of unemployment for those who have ceased to carry out their own activity. It is also noted that it is related to the rights of seamen in international navigation that there is no change. We also ensured that the education referred to by the unemployed person is in line with the current and envisaged labour market needs, the estimated competences of persons and professional conditions and, in this respect, the obligation to evaluate educational programmes by the Croatian Employment Institute and to improve them. In addition, this law also allows for the work of the season itself outside the season during the extended retirement period for the purpose of engagement at special events. And in that case, the constant season will be suspended from payment of financial assistance and will continue after the end of this possible engagement. As regards the second law, regarding the Employment Encouragement Act, I have already said myself that its content is fully taken over by this first law, the Labour Market Act, and it is therefore proposed to put the Employment Encouragement Act out of effect, given that the Labour Market Act will be united and in a unique way only the labour market will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122032	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122033	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates. Here is just about these two points of termination of the law and the adoption of the labour market law proposal, a little modestly noted, and would you like to repeat once again how much has been spent on employment incentives in these 4.5 billion kunas in the last 2 years of the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic and I am interested in the concrete results of the younger population group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122034	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122035	Can I give you my first word? Here will be answered by the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric, please. [[Intruder Buric: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122036	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and my apologies. Dear Mr. Bačić, that's right, 4.5 billion kuna in the 2 years of the Government of A. Plenkovic to encourage employment, only in this year 2.5 billion kuna, of which 900 million are secured from the European Social Fund. And you mentioned young people, what should be mentioned is that the number of young people who make contracts for a certain period of time who go indefinitely, that the number of such contracts is very fast, year by year and first 4 months. This year, young people who extended contracts to indefinitely 41,641 young people in the Republic of Croatia, fell from 50% in 2013 to 21% in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122037	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122038	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we really have an opportunity in this House to discuss the main law in the first or second reading, very little law we get by emergency procedure, slightly higher percentage of such laws now that we are bound by the abolition of agencies, with the establishment of inspectorates, you have decided to go through this law by emergency procedure, does not mean that I think it's worse but I'm interested in all the reasons for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122039	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122040	Thank you, ma'am. Mrak-Taritash, so I believe that you have read all the materials because I know that you are a very precise representative so I suppose you have also read that this is about harmonising with the Law on Contributions which is part of the tax reform and which takes effect from 1.1.2019 and which will charge all of us citizens and entrepreneurs for an additional 6 billion in 400 million kuna. Since this is the case, horizontal harmonisation should also take place with regard to this Labour Market Act, and that is precisely why the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law should be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122041	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then we go to the debate, the first clubs of MPs and the first Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122042	... The Parliament, respected secretary of state with co-workers, given that the conditions are again related to this law, in fact a very large number of data has been presented, I will not repeat myself, I will try not to repeat certain things that you have presented in your presentation, so I will only say a few things about this united debate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So the labour market is certainly one area where the best way to assess the state of the national economy can be assessed and the goal of each government and the economy of a single country is the well-being of its citizens, i.e. as high standard as possible. When we talk about the characteristics of the labour market, compatibility with the education system or incompatibility can be well seen, the education system should be an instrument for improving the overall national economy. The current labour market in the Republic of Croatia reveals a rather unfavourable structure and a difficult dynamic of change, particularly with other EU members. Since we had a whole set of, one set of tax laws, amendments and additions to tax laws these past month, after which we had amendments and amendments to 6 pension laws, so in the case of pension funds of the very law relating to pension insurance and insurance companies, I will say only briefly, and Minister Maric, when he talked about these tax laws, then he actually said that he needed to find a niche where the employer or the labour price would actually be relieved, and then he found that part of the contribution, or the abolition of the contribution from these 1.7%, as the state secretary said, but also the injuries at work. In fact, this result of one fiscal effect was about 900 million kuna more for employers in terms of cost reductions and labour prices. Of course, this savings should be reflected in increased employment as well as by the employer's salary increase. This second law is in fact a harmonisation of the law on amendments to the Law on Contributions to the Law on Contributions which will take effect from 1.1.2019 and the provisions of the Employment Encouragement Act relating to compulsory insurance for seasonal workers in agriculture, as you said. However, it should be pointed out once again because we have had certain questions today that the Labour Market Act will actually take over the content of the Employment Encouraging Act, it should be said that the abolition of employment contributions will not affect the level and scope of rights during unemployment. All rights and rights remain, the unemployment insurance institute remains and continues but will be provided from the state budget. Maybe something else before the end of it now. Maybe one piece of information that maybe the secretary of state didn't tell you. So maybe one piece of information that maybe the secretary of state didn't tell you. Therefore, it may be very important to point out that employment and employment contracts during 2018 employed a total of 152,848 persons, of which 91,7% were employed on the basis of a working relationship, while 8.3% were employed on the basis of other business activities, which is related to vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, or in the registration of companies or crafts, work on a work contract. Because it is often the subject of debate in this Croatian Assembly, so it is, so I especially wanted to present this information without saying about the things you actually said. This law goes into emergency procedure for justified reasons, because of the tax reform itself, as I said, which aims at tax discharge of employers, as well as one horizontal harmonisation of regulations with the tax regulations that we are, which was a common case in the Croatian Parliament. And the HDZ Club will support both of these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122043	Thank you very much, especially for economics over time because we have five more laws to pass. The next club of MPs will be that of GLAS and HSU, in the name of which will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122044	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, the distinguished secretary of state with your associates, it's so someone gets a hearing at a good time, and someone gets a debate in a little less good time and I agree here we've started here for almost 9 hours, just before 9, we have a lot of laws, which doesn't mean we don't have to discuss some things and we don't need to say anything. I kind of always feel a little uncomfortable, you have some things, you get some laws, you get some arguments when no matter what you sit with the part where the opposition, I don't have any problem even commending some of the suggestions that we get. We don't get it, we have to say the proposals that are even, they're different, this is one proposal that should be commended to you for the simple reason, I purposely wanted you to point out that the reason for the urgency, that January 1st, when you have to apply some other things as well. It's equally clear that what you're saying at the outset is that this is a law that unites other things, but in this law there's a lot of good-looking data. Yes, you received, took the data that was in the first 10 months of 2018, so you compared 2017, 2018 the labour market is one topic which in Croatia, I agree that it is not equally important and that some other topics are thus more intriguing and the council gets more debates in this assembly, but this is an extremely important topic, because through this data opens up a series of problems that need to be discussed. I must say that we at the GLASs Club and HSU will support this law, so we have no problem when it's a good thing to say it's good, when something isn't the same as saying it is. For the simple reason, so the data here that is intriguing is, when you see that in the first 10 months of 2018 compared to 2017, it was approximately, when you compare this whole 2017 and 2018, you see that the same number of these coupons or working days for seasonal growth in agriculture, and she, I don't understand anything, well, well. So when you see, it's about the same number and that this, ah something else, you see that it's the same number and when you see the untapped percent it's the same thing somewhere. So 1.36, 1.26. This means that we have no movement here, that means that the same is approximately the same as the number of days given both in 2017 and 2018. Now the question is whether we don't have a shift because we don't need more, or we don't have a move because no matter how much you give, they won't have anyone to work with. So, here in relation to the labour market and what we want to do is make one great data, which is actually to be considered, I'm just now just a digression, when I'm talking about all the laws, the laws don't need to be watched now is someone passed the law, we have the law, we put it there, by his work, especially the law. This law you have to follow at the level, its implementation at the level I would say every three months, to see what's good, to see what's not good and what, possibly, some other laws need to be changed to make it right. That's the kind of law, that's the law that lives, the law where there's no problem at all for you to come in six months and say it shouldn't be a problem, the provision that we've laid down in this law isn't good, we want it to change because we want to improve. So I was looking at 2, 3 things that I was interested in because that's the thing that Croatia needs to make a move and something that we need to change. So this is one thing, if we have about the amount of coupons or working days related to agriculture and about the same percentage of those that are unused, that means the key question is whether we're done or not, if we're not done with what we do to be? If it's not enough because there's no one to work, then it's a problem that you can't solve by law, but something else needs to be solved. I always tell examples that are from real life, one two years ago I was in one part of the city of Zagreb where people deal with agriculture and I met really young, young people, young boys who stayed on their OPGs and I ask them how it goes, so do you have enough and says it goes well and now there was a season, so there was a time of the bone, saving everything that it takes for the winter period and I say if you have someone to work with, they say no. We offer 500 kuna a day, we have no one to work for and buy machines to replace people. So that's one method to do it, so that's something that's important. It's important, among other things, when you look at who's unemployed and now I always have some information that says that at an older age, or a more decent age to say that men are more unemployed than women, but here you can see that it's not like that and you see something that we repeat all the time. And that is, long-term unemployment is related to lower education and higher lifespan. Here's the information that approximately 59-year-olds are almost unable to get a job. And now it's just that the topic is whether we're mature enough, as a society, as a state to see what kind of jobs are those where people who are lower education and higher age would still get a little job. I kind of feel like those examples should always be looked for outside. In doing so, it was really hard to do them sometimes, because we had a tradition that was different, than it was in the country where we like to look, especially the countries of Scandinavia, that is, countries that had long-term capitalism, where it wasn't a problem for someone to work for two hours a day, half the time. So, it's nothing unusual, I was the first time, when I started working, so when I was with my colleagues, I said, I work at one desk six hours a day, and in the second desk, it was inconceivable to me, because it was absolutely, we didn't, we lived differently. What I see is, it's kind of a Dutch or Danish example of people who are older in life, lower in education, doing some jobs that are acceptable to them, for a shorter period of time. It's a very simple job for you. At the store you have older lifetimes or a man or a woman who helps you put things in a bag. We get in our heads, so we have to get some things in our heads to cover it with the law and to make it work. We first have to get in the head, that it's no problem, that you at one time of your life, work at one firm, I don't know, two days a week, at another firm three days a week. Or that you have absolutely some other conditions. So we first have to get to it, because we're all used to it, working hours, working weeks, from mornings, so our moms and dads went from 6 to 2 so they worked on Saturdays. We're not used to it yet. And then the theme is that there really are jobs, that people who are a little larger in life, so, a little more age and lower in life, they can do that. So this is one example, where, say, six hours a week in a supermarket, someone helps, when you buy something, to fold it in your bag, and to get it to your car, you get this fee, and that's how a man feels. I often know from this pay phone to say another thing, and that is, I always look at it and use my own examples and that when it comes to November's work, I've said the same thing. My children, when they got the allowance, were all right, but when they worked and earned for every kuna they knew exactly what I was going to spend it on. So, the man gets better, I'm sure he feels better when he works, than when he doesn't. And there's one more thing, when you look at the structure of the need, from the employment office and says 73.7% of the needs make the required workers for a certain time, and 26.3 indefinitely. That's the one, so it connects with each other. So we often talk about this work at a certain time, and there we need to look at what the context is, which are the jobs that this is the way. And that's always where he thinks, yeah, he takes me for a while, because he doesn't need me or anything else. But the liberalisation of the labour market, the liberalisation of all relationships, will come to the conclusion that someone will be in a situation, I don't want to, I want a two-year contract to see if I'm okay with you. Because when I'm done with you, I'm gonna go somewhere else or I want a deal for a year. Which, in fact, I won't owe any more, what exactly am I saying? This law is one law that you iron things out and you take over something from another law, so it's not revolutionary, and it won't bring any big news, regarding the contributions you've had to bring in an emergency procedure to make it work. But I really have to commend the Ministry, which in its explanation gave us a series of data that we like the parliamentary representatives, which, among other things, develops economy, employment, unemployment, and we have data that we can deal with. And I point to some facts that we all together, primarily you, and we all have to take care of together. With us in Croatia, things will be better when we, ourselves, are willing to think differently, think differently. We need to think about that and the labour market is open, that it's liberal in the sense that I choose where I want to go, that I go to an employer who's going to offer me something more, something better, that's going to give me opportunities, some benefits that I don't have, the problem I have, and that we need to face and try to solve is really people who have lower education and who have more years because they're unemployed and there try to find some other conditions and some other way, because that's something, because what we have right now, and somehow I'm going to end with that thought. On the one hand, we have people who claim to be unemployed and on the Bureau. On the other hand, we have a great need for labour. And that need for labour, not with high or medium education, is also a need for lower education. The second thing, how flexible we are, and we want to change, and the third thing that there really should be some incentives, which will encourage these people, to change, to work, and of course employers to have certain conditions and ways to hire them. I've taken a little more time than my colleague before, but somehow I needed to be on one side, no matter what these late hours, I say, we've got something that's material that can serve us otherwise, that you don't get every time from the opposition to mock you and everything else, but to commend you once and for all. And regardless, let's all start thinking, what to do, change things, because believe in one thing, this appeal, which all the tourists, all the people who deal with tourism, say, we next gentleman won't be able to do, because we won't have anyone to hire, is not in vain, he's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122045	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Curaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122046	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be as short as I can, I think it's already, the core all said, so I'd like to avoid any repetitive needlessly. So, the Labour Market Act with which we, of course, are told for all the reasons that we are told and abolishing the contribution, by unifying the other two laws, put everything under one hat, means when we talk about both fees and what is important and what is extremely well said here to guarantee the retention of the right to cash compensation for the unemployed, so what it does to the public, regardless of which the employers will now have no obligation to pay contributions in the event of unemployment or employment, remains the same as in all rights. What is also important is that the abolition of practically will not mean anything more in the business of the Institute itself, since all the funds will be provided in the state budget, and it is extremely important, and when we have this, and the law because we know that, above all, through the Institute, we have done a great number of measures, encouraging employment and there I think it is the core of this Labour Market Act, because it regulates the rights which are less now known to all, and for pension, and for health or in the case of cancellation, and unemployment benefits, and so on, it certainly regulates and only the state of the labour market as regards the ratio of the number of employees, the ratio of the number of unemployed, their overvaluation, the promotion of entrepreneurs in which we want to go and what is important, here, it is also Mrak-Taritash well said, the data listed, it is very good to me to see that almost 99% of the results of the measures we have been taken from agriculture and the results of the measures that we have been taken. What I do well to see is this data in 2018, which refers to a relative employment range, so very simple as the ratio of employees from the records to the basis of the employment relationship and the average number of unemployed, the retailes have come to a 1:1 ratio, i.e. about 90.6% in 2018, which is certainly one good indicator, given the previous or if I am not mistaken that this is already 10% growth in the last two years, means 60.70% in 2016, and 70% in 2017. What is important is, of course, still there is a measure of establishing a working relationship with regard to vocational training and that it is open to those older than 30, if we are talking about a profession where they did not have measures, but how did the labour market react? Of course, then in some cases more than one year of experience was not required in the profession, but two. It's the market. When we talk about some statesmen, there is, are, it is still respected as a minimum of one year of work experience in the profession, as a basic condition for that first part of employment, but already on the market have started to look differently at these professional trainings, and there is a little bit of it corrected, because again they are still looking for additional true experience, although this measure has gained its effect and surely that young people who have received it have unearthed the door to the labour market and in fact I believe that the whole, this whole law must be and always go hand in hand with the Labour Law, when we also talk about the liberalisation of the labour market, but also when we talk about rights. We here talk and mention the number of contracts being concluded on a certain, undefined basis, why do our mahma privates make contracts on a certain level? Very clearly, this is why I can influence, control, regulate my employees. Not because they don't want to be given, but because they know, if they have to give someone a business, not a business conditioned resignation, but a guilty resignation, that it's very hard to prove, that according to the Labour Act, by the mahogany that goes on always... workers, they're coming back, not to tell the unemployed, because these are things that are really hard to prove. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying that the party doesn't have two medals, but we really have to say here that this institute doesn't exist any more or less, that there's no difference, that we should go through the Labour Act that's not a key topic here right now, but through these incentives on the labour market itself, because I think that's the very part of the Institute, and that's a good thing that's done through everyone, and the Ministry is doing it, and we're using billions of funds, we're just turning our workforce towards where it's most needed, and where there's the most demand. And that is the main objective that must arise from this Law, when it comes to attracting European funds, using European funds, investing, encouraging our employers, but also what is extremely good, opening up our own crafts, own companies, so self-employment, which is certainly still being followed by all the measures we have been, we are practically joining two laws here, bringing something under one roof, but it is extremely important for me to continue to work on promotion and that when we talk about the Employment Service, we are talking about a place where they will receive compensation, rather than a place where they will be requalified, where you will get incentives, where you will be able to start your business or crafts and thus compete with the labour market and earn your wages that you should be worthy of. So of course the HNS Club will support these changes and I think that, here there are also really data that should be said that the average amount of cash compensation during unemployment paid to users was 2150 kuna, I think it's this, very little, of course, as to some possibility of life, but there's no fee to allow you... Life, but to give you that transitional period in search of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we also have a kind of unemployment that is normal everywhere between jobs and that this reduction of unemployment and are always to be welcomed, that record low unemployment, but it's important for us to do what, how to use all these people who may not have that much incentive to look for jobs, or how to make them more interesting, productive or more paid jobs, because then there would be a lot of our problems solved if we actually had to pay more wages for all these jobs, because some people are actually leaving to do something that they wouldn't do just because there's a bigger pay, it has to be a clear sign in which direction we have to go. Once again, the HNS Club supports this Labour Market Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122047	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Independent Representatives' Club, on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122048	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with his associates, it is a late hour, so I will try to be specific. What do we as a club resent this bill? Namely, and what's wrong with it? This legislative proposal regulates the rights of unemployed persons and policies to encourage employment and policies towards the unemployed. We have had tax reform here, and with this tax reform, the employment contribution has been abolished, so that in future unemployment benefits will be financed no more from the funds of the contributions paid by employers but from the state budget. Our current system of rights during unemployment was based on an unemployment risk insurance system, so the insurance worker paid a job contribution, so the worker, based on that unemployment risk insurance system, was eligible for unemployment, including unemployment benefits. Since the amount of the contribution was determined as a percentage of the salary of the workers, it also made sense that the amount of compensation for unemployed persons was determined in relation to the base which depended on the salary of the workers. In addition to the minimum and maximum amount of compensation an unemployed person is entitled to. The new Law on Contributions and the new Labour Market Act removes Croatia from the unemployment risk insurance system because the employer is no longer obliged to pay a contribution to insurance against the risk of unemployment for workers, but will provide compensation for unemployed persons in the state budget. The Government's argument that it only changes the way in which the unemployment benefits are financed and that it does not penetrate the system does not hold water. This law lays the basis for changing the system of determining the amount of unemployment benefits because it is only a matter of time before and on these grounds the Government will change the system to pay everyone the same fees, that they may depend on the property censorship and so on because it is no longer an insurance. The system of benefits for the unemployed should be revised in a way that reassessssssss the conditions for the right to compensation for the unemployed, its duration, the amount and coverage. What else should this law consider? Introduce the obligation to report to the Institute at the time of the termination of the employment contract and not the termination of the working relationship, the introduction of a cash compensation in the event of the contractual termination of the labour contract. Some countries have 50% salary, now they have no right to do so. Ensuring persons on professional training the right to compensation for transport costs and so on. Therefore, this law should focus on ensuring decent social security for citizens and on ensuring conditions for a dynamic labour market policy. Unfortunately, this law didn't ensure that. With that in mind, we've prepared amendments and I'm going to read them for a while. Amendment 1 to Article 13, Article 13, adds a new paragraph 2 which reads as follows: The Institute is obliged to report to the employer for the purpose of obtaining information on the labour market, employment and to assist in finding work and to increase the possibility of hiring the employer whose notice is due after the cancellation of the employment contract for business or personal reasons. Reason: In order to speed up the process of looking for a new job to the worker whose job contract has been cancelled, it is proposed to introduce the employer's obligation to report to the Office for all relevant information on employment opportunities before the working relationship expires. In Article 41, Article 41(1), point (b) of point 3 is added: Cost of transport from place of residence, residence to place of work. There is no need for a particular explanation, therefore the cost of transport is paid to persons on professional employment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This amendment shall allow workers whose employment relationship has ceased on the basis of an employment agreement, the right to cash compensation during the unemployment period established at 50% of the basis. In this case, since the state of unemployment is conditioned by the will of the workers, it is proposed to establish a cash compensation of 50% of the base. In this way, the right to social security is ensured during unemployment for workers whose employment relationship has ceased in this way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following In Article 46(1), the word ‘9’ is replaced by ‘6’. Recital: that provision lays down the conditions for the acquisition of the right to cash compensation. Taking into account the fact that significant changes occur in the world of work in favour of labour flexibility both in terms of modes and in terms of forms of employment and labour flexibility must also reflect the flexibility of the social security system, especially in the case of unemployment. This law does not respect the circumstance that in Croatia there is a widespread phenomenon of flexible forms of employment from time to time, seasonal work, agency work and many who work in flexible conditions due to conditions of 9 months of work within 24 months do not exercise the right to compensation for the unemployed. Due to inflexible criteria for the right to cash compensation, a small coverage of workers who exercise this right and only 17%, among the smallest percentages in the EU. Here were the words when it came to the Law on Seamen and they were covered by the team. Therefore, conditions for the exercise of the right to cash compensation must be more flexible if the coverage of unemployed persons is higher because they are largely harmful to young workers who for the first time enter the labour market and may not be able to meet the required criteria and therefore many countries have special conditions for young workers. In addition, taking into account the fact that it requires 9 months of work to obtain the right to compensation for unemployed many seasonal workers working in the season and not in the category of permanent season do not exercise the right to cash compensation because, for example, they work for only 7 months of the year, which put that category of workers in an extremely unfavourable social situation. Therefore, in order to increase the coverage of cash compensation users during unemployment, it is proposed to reduce the condition of previous work from 9 to 6 months. and Amendment 5 to Article 48. In Article 48(1), point 2 is deleted. Taking into account the interests of both employers and workers in the process of restructuring employers in order to speed up the process of restructuring and protecting the social interests of workers, it is proposed to delete point 2 in order to allow workers whose employment relationship has ceased by written agreement with the employer to obtain the right to cash compensation. It is precisely due to the fact that workers do not have the right to compensation for the unemployed in the event of a contractual termination of the employment relationship that employers must resort to lay down labour contracts in case the worker and corresponds to the termination of the working relationship with an agreement which significantly slows down and collects the restructuring process of employers. I Amendment 6 to Article 52 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 52 st. 1 number 60 is replaced by 70%. This amendment proposes to increase the amount of cash compensation during unemployment to 70% of the basis for the first 90 days of use of cash compensation. In order to increase the amount of unemployment benefits during that period, given that the average fee paid for the unemployed is extremely low, which is now around €2200, according to HZZ data. This would ensure adequate income for unemployed people during the first 90 days of unemployment. I had to read this for the public, of course, you are, the amendments are attached and I ask you to read about them and we will vote on the law accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122049	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from a respected representative, Ivan Lovrinovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Then he answered... What? And my colleague Maras checked out, well, I didn't know. So that would end the debate on this point. I'll lock it up, and we'll vote on both laws when the conditions come to pass. We will now move to a statement on amendments in the final proposal of the Labour Emergency Market Act, 1st and 2nd reading, PZ No. 545, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, Representative Goran Maras and the Independent Representatives' Club. I would like the president of the motion to show himself about the amendments submitted, respecting Secretary of State Majda Buric, please. First, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122051	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122052	Thank you. Becomes an integral part The first amendment becomes an integral part of the law. [[No, it's just...]] Second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122053	The second amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122054	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122055	The third amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122056	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122057	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122058	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122059	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122060	It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122061	The amendment is not accepted. The reason is that the proposed formulation of this provision concerns the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia only after the decision of the Administrative Council of the Office on the adoption of the Statutes. So, the statute has already been passed, but will enter into force after giving consent to the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122062	On behalf of the Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122063	Your Honor, Vice President. With that explanation, we give up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122064	So, Amendment No. Six. Amendment No. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122065	Amendment No. 7 is also not accepted by reason of that provision. 92 century 1 The draft law points to the authority of the bodies which include the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and the Inspectorate of Labour until 01.04 next year, and from 01.04 next year, the State Inspectorate. The proposed amendment would cover only the jurisdiction of the labour inspectorate until 01.04, i.e. until the entry into force of the new State Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122066	On behalf of the Committee, a respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122067	Thank you. With that explanation, we withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122068	The amendment has been withdrawn. The eighth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122069	The eighth amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122070	The ninth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122071	The ninth amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122072	Both the eighth and ninth become an integral part of the law. Now we're going to the amendment of Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122073	The amendment is not accepted as the subject matter of the regulation of this law is defined. 1 A law which clearly states that it regulates the labour market only through certain prescribed activities. In view of this, the common denominator for the prescribed activities is the labour market, and in order to ensure legal certainty and transparency, it is necessary to regulate the labour market in the Republic of Croatia by a single law, in a comparable name, such as this so far, which has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122074	The MP's not here, so we'll vote on the amendment. The next amendment is the club of Independent Representatives. First, Amendment One of that... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122075	Amendment 1 is not accepted. Namely, there is no obstacle for a worker to register with HZZ during the period of notice, in order to use the services of the Institute or to obtain all necessary information related to the possibility of employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122076	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122077	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, there is no obstacle, but we can assume that even all workers do not know their rights exactly, so in that sense it would be better if it were an employer's obligation to report to that worker in order to make it possible to find a job as quickly as possible. So here's just a question of whether all the workers know these rights and whether they can use them and, of course, it would be better if it were the employer who, we assume, with his legal service, with all the more information. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122078	Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122079	Amendment 2 is also not accepted. The conditions and means of use of the means to implement the measures are explicitly prescribed that the cost of transport during professional training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, etc. Sora, employer's obligation. Therefore, in the event that the employer does not take the stated obligation, HZZ will not grant it the application of that measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122080	Dear Representative Sagar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122081	So here's the goal, and I see you're saying that, the goal is to give young people who are trained in training, to provide compensation for road transport insurance, and that's why we put the amendment in place. I'm not sure now, I can't right now, I'm not sure I've realized until the end that you claim that this is possible, so that's why I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122082	Amendment 3 to the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122083	Amendment 3 is not accepted. In the case of insurance, it is necessary to distinguish whether there has been a security case by guilt or by the will of an unemployed person or not. The aim is to provide material legal protection during unemployment to those who could not influence the entry into unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122084	Dear Representative Sagar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122085	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, but it would still be good to leave the possibility that 50% of these fees are also used by those who have come to an agreement to break up a working relationship because I find it hard to believe that someone would come out of the world of work with their own free will without any other job being secured. There are also those border cases where, even if, by some form of blackmail or something else, this situation occurred, this measure would be very good. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122086	Amendment 4 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122087	Amendment 4 is not accepted. The condition of 9 months of work in the last 24 months is the Law prescribed minimum, minimum condition for the exercise of the right to cash compensation during unemployment, and we believe that this is quite acceptable and reasonable for all categories of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122088	Dear Representative Sagar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122089	Dear State Secretarys, therefore, since labour relations are also changing to the Republic of Croatia that there are more and more forms of flexible working relations, both in terms of modes of work and in forms of employment. This flexibility should also be manifested in the flexibility of the social security system, and here we are talking about a case of unemployment. Therefore, the law should respect the circumstances that in the Republic of Croatia there is a widespread phenomenon of flexible forms of employment. Many work in such forms. What the data shows, due to inflexible criteria for the exercise of the right to cash compensation, is a small coverage of workers who exercise that right. And you know how much? Only 17% of them. This is among the smallest percentages in the EU, and the EU also warns that the mechanism is not being implemented in the Republic of Croatia. 9 months is a long period, especially for these forms of work, seasonal work, and therefore we thought that 6 months is still a more appropriate period. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122090	Amendment 5 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122091	Amendment No. 5 is not accepted. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between the insurance policy and whether an insurance case has occurred through guilt or by the will of an unemployed person or not. The aim is to provide material legal protection during unemployment to those who could not influence the entry into unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122092	On behalf of the club, the Honorable Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122093	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, here is a matter of clarity, an employer who comes into difficulty, is not in fact able to agree with workers to cancel the Labour Treaty so that they have their rights, but the fact that workers should be fired. And it's kind of flexible and this legislative proposal, which is why we've proposed this amendment because we have to think about the employer that he's buying it up, this is what's costing him the whole restructuring process, in that sense this amendment is proposed, I'm sorry that you refuse it, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122094	And the amendment to the sixth of that club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122095	Amendment 6 is also not accepted. The proposed increase in the amount of cash compensation is a passive measure, which is certainly not in line with the EU's recommendations, which are aimed at encouraging active measures, not passive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122096	Dear Representative Sagar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122097	Well, the Honorable Secretary of State, everything depends on which side we're looking. The fee is a fee, if we call it a passive measure from the ministry's point of view, but if it increases, it can be an active measure, because with us and an unemployed person to look for a job needs a certain amount of funding. Any increase in unemployment benefits helps a person who is currently unemployed to get a job easier. We also have the issue of the Croatian Employment Institute after the cancellation of the employment contribution, although it exists several times, although you have pointed out that nothing will change that all measures from other elections will continue to be financed. Yet there is still a danger that many unemployed people will not have adequate care. And the biggest, best concern is actually to provide them with greater benefits during unemployment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122098	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122099	Final proposal of the Labour Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 545. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, Representative Gordan Maras and the Independent Representatives' Club. We held a statement on the amendments at the beginning of the morning session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go in turn, first it's the Legislative Committee, adopted 1. 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th not accepted, so it was withdrawn and the 7th was also withdrawn, the 8th was accepted and the 9th was accepted. We're now going to the amendment of Attorney Gordan Maras, he's not accepted, so we're going to vote on him. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the Amendments of the Independent Representatives Club, the first amendment is not accepted, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two, also not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number three, no government support. The club of independent MPs, I said, I'm reading them now, there are six of them. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four of the same club representatives did not receive support from the government. He didn't even get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And amendment number six of the same club is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Labour Market Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 80 votes for, 14 abstentions and 3 votes against the Law on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122121	Now I suggest that I form an art. Let us unite the debate on the following two points, so it is the final proposal to amend the law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the final proposal for laws amending and supplementing the law on the establishment and division of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration. Both emergency procedures, first and second reading, are the laws of the PZ No. 553 and 547. Do you agree to unite them? Yeah, no one's against it. Therefore, we agree. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article. 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the president want to further explain both laws? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all MPs and MPs. So these two draft laws are the result of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement public administration reform and are also based on strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. Before proposing these proposals, an analysis of all legal entities with public authority has been made and it has been established that part of them is overlapping with the part of the central authorities of the state administration and that the tasks currently carried out by those agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with the public authority of the list set out in the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 02 August 2018 may be carried out by the central authorities of the state administration at far less cost, and through the structural units within them. The analysis also showed that the number of legal persons with public authority is too high and therefore, following the analysis carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the 110th session held on 10 August 2018, it adopted a conclusion adopting a proposal to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and others with public powers, which is the first stage of the reform process. Prior to this conclusion, implementation of this reform has been incorporated into the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. The public administration development strategy for 2017-2020 provides for action 13. The regulatory and rationalisation of the legal persons system with the public authority of the agency type and the national reform programme 2018 provides for a measure 133. Rationalisation of the system of legal persons with the public authority of the agency type within which the merger and removal of agencies is envisaged. It also provides for a reform measure 115. Uniting economic inspections. In accordance with the conclusion I have already mentioned, the central authorities of the state administration shall assume, therefore, the tasks and powers of agencies, institutions, funds, foundations and other legal persons with public authority corresponding to their administrative areas. These laws, which are complemented by their work, are complemented in the Ministry of Protection and Rescue, except for the fire department, which has so far been carried out by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, the State Department for Protection and Rescue, but including the inspection of the fire department that remains in the MUP, the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Agency for Spaces Threatened by the Explosive Atmosphere. In the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it is complemented by a part-round work done so far by the Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings and the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development. The Ministry of Agriculture complements the business that has so far been carried out by the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency. In the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, it is complemented by a part-round work done by the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency. In the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime and Infrastructure, the work carried out by the Waterway Agency has been completed in part. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds complements the work that has been carried out by the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia so far. The Ministry of Health, too, is complemented by the work carried out by the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and Social Care so far. In addition, the National Bureau of Measurement is complemented by the part-round work that has been carried out by the Croatian Measurement Institute so far. The Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society shall be completed in part by the conduct of the central register of state property and shall be determined more precisely by the section of all transactions. The Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care shall be complemented by a part-round operation in accordance with specific regulations, which determines housing in assisted areas. Also, in the Ministry of State Property, part-time business is complemented by the new Law on State Property Management, as well as the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the concept of being imprisoned for the purpose of compliance with the new Law on Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families adopted last year is deleted. In accordance with the conclusion, the bill provides for the abolition of two state administrations, namely the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue and the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security, as well as the abolition of two offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office for Mine Action and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Finally, according to the bill, the establishment of the State Inspectorate and the Croatian Fire Department as the Central Authority of the State Administration is envisaged. So, here, I tried briefly to really show all the things that are covered by these laws, and I am at my disposal to answer all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122123	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122124	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is one body that will discuss this tomorrow, and from the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, it is specifically about the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. When the Agency was established it was then established and there was a reason that it was necessary so that it could be contacted in an adequate manner to withdraw certain funds from the EU Funds because it is not possible directly through the Ministry, but rather necessary by the Agency. It's about an agency that's got 100 employees somewhere. On the Legislative Committee the other day, I asked the State Secretary, who was from the Ministry of State or Assistant, I am now not exactly, whether it was obtained, was the State Secretary, whether it was given the opinion that it could continue to function from the European Commission, and at that time there was no such opinion. Is that an opinion in the meantime?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122125	Thank you. A reply to the replica of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, we've contacted the Ministry of Regional Development multiple times, and so, this law that we've actually been uniting, we've got guarantees that everything that's needed to go into the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122127	Next debate of the respected representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122128	Dear Secretary of State, can you explain to me the criteria by which these 54 agencies have been selected and why the Law on agencies with public authority has not been sent to the procedure provided for in the first quarter of 2018, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122129	Answer, Your Honor's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as the Law is concerned, so on the day of 28.4. Last year, and I guess you're talking about the Law, it means that, therefore, the Law was found in such a state that, in fact, it lacked transitional and final provisions and some of the disputed moments that concerned it, so, the very text of the Law. Afterwards, the Government of the Republic of Croatia analysed the Act, and decided, of course, that, on the basis of this, it had actually concluded 2.8 to move on, so after the analysis with this 54, it means, the central authorities of the state administration in merger.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122131	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is much easier to establish agencies, institutions, funds than to abolish them, and I welcome the government's decision to streamline costs. I would like to ask whether you are also considering further suspensions or accessions of these agencies, the Institute and regarding the Law on the Ombudsman. In 2012, it was imagined and discussed that special defenders would belong to the occupier. Is it possible that this direction was being considered, or will it remain in this form for the time being? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122133	Thank you very much. Answer, Your Honor's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122134	Thank you. Of course, I agree with your opinion that it is much harder to work on a reduction in the number of agencies. If you have carefully read this material that you have received on the benches, then you have seen that it is actually the first phase, so it is planned that after the analysis this is the first stage in reducing the number of agencies, institutions, institutes and similar organizations. And as for the attorney general, unfortunately, I can't answer that question right now because I don't know anything about it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122135	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, and the first one on behalf of the Representatives Club will be divided by respected representatives Angelko Strick and Ivan Shuker. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122136	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the draft Act amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That Law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the 27th century, 1st century, it prescribes offices established by the Government to carry out professional activities, including the Office for Mine Action and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Recently, Prime Minister Plenkovic made it clear in the government's work report that its political and economic goals, stability, and a continuation of the initial reforms that are important for our citizens' lives, or to be as high-quality as possible. That is why the government has initiated the adoption or amendment of 266 laws since the start of the mandate. I will visit you to carry out the third tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs in the current government's mandate right now. Since the New Year, VAT rates for fresh meat of fish, eggs, fruit and vegetables will be halved, making it worth 2.7 billion kuna for citizens. Also, the minimum wage increased by 504 kuna and 23.9% respectively, support for the birth of the child increased by 50% and from 2663 kuna to 3991 kuna, respectively. After a full 20 years, personal disability and care allowance were increased by 20%. At the start of the current government's mandate, there were 325 000 citizens in the blockade due to 43 billion kuna, the government's measures reduced the number by 284,000 citizens and the amount of the blockade to less than 19 billion kuna. All of this has just been achieved by the current government's moves. The government is now continuing its reforms and plans to abolish or connect a total of 54 state institutions i.e. agencies, institutions, funds, companies, institutes, foundations and other legal entities with public authority to make public administration more efficient, faster, simpler and more transparent. This will be a continuation of more quality reforms, will lead to the rationalisation of state administrations and bodies with public powers and have certain financial savings. Why is it good that the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse is attached to the Department of Public Health? The Institute of Public Health has already established a network of expert teams that are equipped and educated on this issue but also established cooperation with other institutions such as schools, CZSSs, judiciary, police, probation office, citizens' associations and the hospital system. The most important thing in all is good prevention and education of both students and parents for whom teams of school medicine are in charge. I stress that this network of co-operation at the county level is well-established and well-functioning. When it comes to demining, it is important to highlight the following. According to the data that was in September '95. G. Equipped by HV Chief Staff, around 3 million anti-arming and anti-walking mines were installed in the Republic of Croatia in 1:1 and the territory was polluted with 100 000 unexploded grenades. When we talk about the size of the land of polluted mines and cannon missiles, about 300,000 ha of land and about the removal of unexploded missiles, we need to look at another million ha of land. It's been since '98, though. up to 2017 spent around €5.4 billion of which from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia 3.1 billion, donations and support of the 1.1 billion kuna of which of the World Bank 256 million kuna and 938 million kuna by legal persons, the Republic of Croatia will not be able to achieve its most important objective and this is to end the demining process by 2019. 12. In 2017, around 440 km2 of mine suspected area still needs to be demined in the Republic of Croatia. From this point on, it is clear how important the Demining Office is and why it is attached to the MUP. It is interesting now here in the Croatian Parliament these days to listen to who is against more efficient, faster, simpler and more transparent public administrations, i.e. abolishing. attaching 54 state institutions. It is those who regularly call the government too many employees, too many officials, that the public administration is slow and ineffective and too much burden on the economy and so on. It is interesting that these always appear before the local elections and suggest the abolition of the counties and then run for mayors. They also call for the abolition of cities and municipalities and then run for mayors and mayors. This is not just about populistism and demagogy, but also about hypocrisy because how else do you characterize the candidacy for duty that you think should be abolished? I therefore propose to support these amendments to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia because they lead to a more efficient, faster, simpler and more transparent public administration. The HDZ advocates' club will support the adoption of this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122137	The Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So here in these late hours we're discussing a subject that was very interesting a few months ago when it could have been without a clear and certain calling of certain agencies here to bid that there are too many agencies, that it should shut them down etc., and unfortunately it was a very common story in this assembly, but now that the government has proposed something, now it's going well again. However, what I would like to say on behalf of the HDZ Club and ask the sweating of all of you, if someone or citizens had now asked you a question about what the agency and what it was doing, and if they had told me in this House, if they didn't know that entrepreneurs, and especially the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then it was clear that the agency had not established itself and had not done its job the way it was supposed to do, because at one point when Croatia was in one large phase of the conclusion of the negotiations for EU entry, then it was a matter of setting up those agencies because it was also as a directive from the EU that certain jobs should be protected by citizens and those providing certain services, it would be best done and done through the agencies, however, it is truly true that if we exempt a couple of agencies had not happened. And what is most important to me here, the ministers who have proposed these changes next year will account for how certain jobs are being done in the course of the budget. So they're the ones who are responsible for the job and they're the ones who are proposing change. But I remember a few years ago, because of saving the budget, one agency that was and which I today think is extremely important to be on its own, pushed within the ministry, but most importantly, that agency brought 630 million kn into the budget. And then no one was talking about it, whether that agency was doing well for HERA, or not doing well, but it was far more important than that 630 million kn, to make the picture of the budget better. So, we at the HDZ Club believe that the government has acted on the basis of the August conclusion, in the past few days just had the opportunity to discuss the laws, which regulate these changes and changes, there is no need to repeat some things. I would refer here to 2 for me very important things, which is the Law on the establishment of a state inspectorate for institutions that I think did a great job of doing. However, at some point someone lacked a little importance, a little strength, so he thought if he brought the inspection into his ministry, it would be a bigger face and a better minister and we were a single institution, which had been built unfortunately for years... And that's what's not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm going to say, when I was speaking on behalf of the state inspectorates, if we were to stick to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then today someone might ask a question, because when proposing a law on the inspection going somewhere, someone based on the Fiscal Responsibility Act had to predict the effects of that job, and now they would see whether or not it's okay. Also, one law, one newspaper, but I'd look back on what I'm about to say, but we've been here in this assembly for years, we've been having fire debates. Unfortunately, however, the discussions on fire were always, somehow late, after the season where the fires were, where we watched those terrible scenes, where the firemen, the members of the MUP, the Morh citizens fought against the fiery verse and always talked about fire in one way. I hope that, by establishing a central state body, the Croatian Fire Department and the new Fire Department, finally setting up a story on professional fire and on Voluntary Fire Department, for the simple reason that we have solved the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit, where we have allocated funds to the units of local self-government that are founders of public fire departments, the share of income tax. However, voluntary fire companies remained in a certain way hanging on the coat of arms of the local self-government unit. And what is very important, as we speak here about the central office, in the Croatian Fire Department, I think that the future head man of that body should think about some kind of, central, I won't say dump, the dump is usually used for old means, but some central space, where a certain material good will be stored and moved to where it should be in the summer. Because it's stupid for certain tanks in certain fire departments... They may be 1,000 or 2 km old by 20 and 30 years. They would also say, as far as the fire department is concerned, that the HDZ Club has sent several amendments, which primarily refers to the status of employees now in the fire department, and I think with these 4 proposed amendments we have defined some things that are unclear, actually with 3 amendments, with 4 amendments referring to the state inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, for all the above and for everything we've said in these past days, when we've changed... These laws, to bring these changes into effect, will support the HDZ Club's proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122139	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122140	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Somehow I think that in life you should trust more with your own eyes than in someone's own words, and so on in the case of a united debate on these two laws. With us, it's quite common that what someone does, shows wonderfully, what someone used to do is very bad. And then I always go back to history who did what and how he did it. I must admit that I would personally feel extremely bad if I were to speak or do things differently now than I did before and I would never do it. And from this pay phone, I'm going to make it clear that there really are agencies, there are some things that need to be lifted. But equally, you can't put everything in the same basket. Equally, when the State Inspectorate decided to move the inspections to the Ministry, I had one strong doubt there, and in the debate at the State Inspectorate, I said that the mess should not be solved by disorder. But I also find it irresistible not to say the following, when this government of Prime Minister Plenkovic came, then we had one ministry less than we have now and that's one ministry we put very well on for the simple reason that there is a man who wanted to be a minister, so the last night formed a ministry, about who works and how it works. Likewise, to remind you that Prime Minister Plenkovic said there would be fewer state officials, that there would be fewer, that there would be state secretaries, that there would be no ministerial assistants, but rather as directors, not only there would be fewer, but there would be more. I, as a parliamentary representative, have asked the government twice, how many state secretaries and assistants there are, every time I get such an interesting answer, that at least I say "bright," which is to the Ministry's pages, go and take a look at it. So then I went to some ministry sites, and they were still old government officials, so much for it. If there was a bridge to this assembly and said it wanted to reduce the number of ministries to, say, 14 or 15 to unite them according to certain jobs being done, we'd be the first to raise a hand for it, but trust me, no matter how late hours we are, it won't happen. And so it started with 54 agencies, and we heard yesterday, so I want to say something about agencies, and I'm going to say something about the State Inspectorate, and yesterday we heard there's not going to be 54, but one 44, 45, because some have fought not to be. I really need to remind you and remind us all together when it came from the Croatian Advisory Service it was going to form the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service. We had the law in two debates, in the first debate and the second very actively participated, and I asked why, why, why, why it can't remain the Croatian Advisory Service, why do you do it, why do you even capacitate then everyone died to explain that it must be, that these are the processes. And look wonders, in February, the law that defined that we have Croatia's agricultural advisory service, we come at the end of the year, and we don't need it at all, all those arguments, why we need it, why we need it, if we don't have it, we're going to have maltenes and agriculture and livestock and forestry, it doesn't matter now at all, it's going to end now, it's going to be in the ministry and everything is going to work. What didn't we know a year ago? What we didn't do then, why didn't we say, my people don't need that service, there'll be one service within the ministry, but on August 2nd, the government made a decision and we went without criteria. So, little kids are playing the fictional world and in this fictional, at least at the time I was, they're probably working on these smart phones today, so they're playing fictional games, fictional world, and that's where it works. In the real world, you have a little problem. I have to admit that one problem I have, which my mom always tells me, I told you, and now I'm saying it all over again and I told you. I'm going to tell you here three agencies, so there's been an over-analysis, to determine why something would, why not, have chosen 10, 15, 20 and show that the processes they're doing are working and somewhere else at the GLAS Club and HSU wouldn't have any problem voting for. We have a Croatian Agency for Protection and Environment, which has 95 employees, who are now, who are not civil servants or subsistence, who, after this law and after all, will become civil servants and subsistence employees, so we'll make it all together, which is one problem, on the one hand, is my people's problem doing the jobs that, the agency that does the jobs that can't be done in the ministry. And she'll get her ears and then in six months we'll go back to being old, I can never understand it. If we now know we have some kind of problem, why do we get into it so someone can give us fingers or ears and come back in six months? Likewise, the secretary of state deliberately cited the Agency for Regional Development, because it has 95 employees and it was then founded with arguments that the ministries and central bodies cannot do these jobs and that is why it must be an agency. If the commission says we changed our minds, it turns out that it works differently, all 5. But what happens if he says no? In six months before this same assembly you'll come and say here, we still have to get that agency back, why we have to learn about mistakes every time, why every time we need to get by the fingers, why don't we go in as much as any, so when you do something at home then put together some kind of project and then you go in that project and you know what you can do, which you can't. I won't understand. I'm sorry that this is happening, I'm sorry that we have to discuss it, I'm sorry for the simple reason that on the one hand we treat the people we treat, who work here, we act like we don't care. We very difficult to get a quality fit, regardless of all together if you want, a quality professional frame very difficult to get at all in public administration or in the state administration for the simple reason that things work well, they will stay on the market or will earn more. This is how you'll get the people you've managed to get into those agencies, and you've got other reasons to pay there than you can at the ministry, they'll go. Everyone who can leave will leave. And we'll get back at the ministry of people with whom we won't know what we're going to do or there won't be enough people. Why are you doing this? So just listen, there are people who have experience, so it's not an opposition just to scream to say that you're not doing well, I care as much about this country as you do. I care as much that we don't have, that we don't have to be ashamed, that I care about getting the quality of the cabinet that's going to do quality work, that's how all the agencies who know they're going to come to the ministry for worse pay are going to cry out. So this problem you have all the time that when you get to the Ministry of Quality Trainee, when you train him, when you do well, when you can have him, he doesn't stay, but the market eats him. And then even when you look at the workforce around this office, you see that these are people who are a little over the age of retirement, that they're not, and the point is that someone else is learning. So much for agencies and so much for what's gonna happen. I will refer to the special Ministry of Construction and Spatial Development, that is to say, you will abolish the Croatian bandage for spatial development, nothing dramatic will happen in this country which will not be. But Croatia will be one of the only countries in the 28th and 27 EU member states that will be left without an institution, which will show that the spatial arrangement and spatial development of Croatia are just as overwhelming as it is. In the ministry, the fact that colleagues who are now this think they will be able to do these jobs will not be able to do these jobs because they will be incompatible and simply when there will be some meetings where they are brought I do not know the EU's spatial development policy on directions, where Croatia will be empty. If that's how we want it, fine. This office was a special unit, it could be partially financed and by its activities outside, he can't do it now in the ministry. When the Institute could be financed from outside, therefore some other activities in the ministry are on the state budget. So much for savings. And it's interesting, so there's a law enforcement agency for illegally built buildings. It's the only agency that's been set up and where people have been taking time and it's been on the Legislative Committee, and I'm guessing that this agency is going to come down. The point was also to start an agency, to do a certain job for a certain time and when it was a job to eliminate them and under these conditions people were employed and it was no one's problem except that now that you're looking at what the Ministry is going to do, that the ministry is going to take over part of the legal work that wasn't an idea at all, in other words, some people are going to be hired for some jobs that weren't supposed to be employed at all, and it wasn't an idea at all. But so much for that. That agency when it comes, I will, of course, be in favor of having it abolished it so for a certain time for a particular job. Now at the small door some jobs go to the ministry. It wasn't the idea at all that the Ministry was doing these jobs, but it was some other idea, and that's where we're going to open up some new jobs. All of you together on your souls. I'm coming to the inspectorate. And that, I must admit, when the great inspectorate decided to sort of split up, I had dilemmas there, and I said the dilemmas clearly and I thought it wasn't the smartest thing, that decision was made, and in the debate on the State Inspectorate I said don't mess up with the mess. And I don't mind that part of the job goes to the state inspectorate. What I'm repeating again is not good for the state inspectorate to have a construction inspection. So someone who's going to be in charge, it's like having a pear, pork half of a sweatpants and shoes in one place, it's now the State Inspectorate. Who's gonna deal with it? And maybe let's say I know tractors. So you have different things. Who's gonna handle it? How's that gonna work? I have to do it again, and somehow I feel like I have to do it. If you'd decided that everything about the building, that all the inspections that are related to the construction were really together at the State Inspectorate, I'd say it's not good, I think you've made the wrong decision but it is. But it's not like that. And yet, the example of eclative is, at this point, the most illegal building on the maritime good, not the building, but the pencils, so someone set up the beach for themselves, so someone made that feather, yeah, everything else. For this construction inspection cannot work alone but must first be an inspection from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, which acts on a maritime good. She stays at the Ministry and this one's at the State Inspectorate. Today that coordination was a problem, how to be in the future I don't know. So, in principle, if you had opted for a state inspectorate that would have been about the mark of what was, we'd have told the GLAS and HSU at the club what had been done before wasn't very good, this is, here's covered by ears and let's do more. But the mess you're dealing with is a mess, it's going to take some time to form it, when it's formed there's going to be a lot of problems again. I talk about those unfortunate boards all the time. At this point in this country, it is certainly the most profitable people who are doing the tables because we are changing these tables as we think about people sitting in the same place and doing about the same jobs but we are changing the tables. In other words, in principle, I don't mind, and I think it's a good idea to cut the number and the office and the agencies, and I was deliberately talking about someone. But my people, the minimum needed to get into a problem and they should have listened to either people or people who know and it had to be done so that you couldn't lift everything and not all jobs could go to the ministries because the ministries, however, and as the central authorities of the state, do some different jobs. First of all, the departments can't make any money. Or are you going to change that, too? Well, OK, and shelters, agencies they could work part of, part of their budget gets on the market. So there's already one problem. But to you. Sadly, I will repeat the words that my mother can say to me: “I have told you. ” I'm almost sure that with at least two or three agencies in the next half year you'll come and say we have to let them go, we have to live because we can't function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122141	Thank you very much. And the next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122142	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. As far as the Government Act is concerned, since it is a symbolic change, we will symbolically support it. As far as the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration is concerned, it is a law confirming the parliamentary majority and that we are not part of the parliamentary majority then we will not support it. As far as concrete solutions are concerned, since the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State only sanctions in some way what is specific to the laws is already or will be arranged on all concrete changes, we have already declared ourselves during the debate on these laws, or we will plead when the laws come to the agenda on this matter. So as far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, we have already discussed or not discussed it because we have opposed the unification of 33 laws, I would still like to say a few sentences that we note that we are changing the status of the Croatian Fire Department (HVZ), that this is not yet followed by concrete amendments to the Law on Firefighting and other laws concerning the work of the HVZ, in order to obtain, therefore, another state-run administrative organisation and that we expect that by 1 January 2020, when that provision takes effect to discuss it in detail. And as for election promises or political declarations, I would like to note that amendments to the Law on the State Administration System have increased the number of state officials in the ministries in such a way that ministerial assistants remain state officials, and that each ministry has received a number of state secretaries, which is not in line with the pre-election promises. As for 10:00, I think this time of day is quite enough said, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122143	Thank you very much. And now he will speak on behalf of the club of the representatives of MOST independent lists respected representative Miro Bulj and representative Sonja Cikotic, the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122144	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary. 54 agencies, administrations, everything that is not, is now abolished by this Law, essentially at the same time and has been admitted to the Ministry of Lovre Kuštević 2700 people, which is kind of disproportionate. You are shutting down to pass exclusively lex Mikulić, that is the fact that, to give, you are centralizing power in your hands. I am personally to shut down, however, I have a few questions. From this 54 agency, the institutions, we, the esteemed secretary, have, therefore, also shut down the i.e. sales, more specifically selling certain state-owned companies or state-owned productions, such as HP production, evo-TV, where it says it's sold there. Evo-TV covers 94% with the RS signal, 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, and we all know that it is intended for HT, which is the largest monopoly in the Republic of Croatia, which has the largest profit in the region of Europe in the Republic of Croatia, this great giant. Can you explain to me, dear secretary, why the sale of an e-TV that has 30 employees, which has an annual income of 57 million kuna, means that we get a 20 million win by warning us the European Council that the monopoly is not good at telecommunications, we need to be controlled by the entire Croatian telecommunications system, and now suddenly we are selling e-TV. So, out of 54 of this agency, as you say, there is a sale of evo-TV owned by Croatia's 100% property, and we have a profit. Why do we sell it to a monopolies? That's the key question. So, you say through this we're removing the Agency, and it's known why they're being abolished, they're just being renamed, they're going to be under one path. Which is why we are selling state property to a HT monopolies with the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, 42% of the margin, while in the area of Europe, not the EU, but Europe, the average is 20% of the profits. So half the profit is in the countries where they come from, and here they're comfortable with it, it might have been the influence of the Misetic Dynasty on the government, and I asked the prime minister here, so I didn't get any representation questions, I didn't get an answer. Which is why we're selling through, so through the story we're reducing the Agency, this is where we show up to sell HP production that owns a state that owns 100% of the property. I expect the exact answer from you. For what? Because it's a state interest to have evo-TV, not to add satellite TV to a monopoly, 6% of the market is now acting, so the number of users of evo-TV has increased. And who's got the winnings? And in the 7th month HACOM gave no solution to evo-TV for extension i.e. HP production owned by Croatian mail, and we know that Croatia's mail is owned. Which is why on this list of 54 agencies, as you say, we're abolishing, boasting here, here's fellow Shucker out front boasting. What's the HP production of Evo-TV for? I don't see any reason why they'd give it to me to a monopoly, HT? Why don't you stay in Croatian hands, and have a profit and I don't see any reason why monopoly over it. And another problem, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, we know what it means, you attach it to the MUP. It is our view that since 1.1.2019, it must not be extinguished. It was first and foremost done without any assessment of mine-hazarded areas in the Republic of Croatia, we know what this Centre did in the Republic of Croatia, mainly in the occupied areas, why you attach it to the MUP? When this Center made a lot of people dead, wounded, and to allow us to have clean spaces, where our people are coming back to live, and we don't have an estimate at all, we didn't get an estimate of how many mined areas there are. And I think and I will give the amendment that since 1.1.2019, the Croatian Mine Action Centre must not be shut down primarily because of people who are professional, who are doing this difficult job in the interests of public goods and that we will then be able to do so for at least a year and see from 01.01.2020 and that within the next year we see whether or not to shut down, i.e. To attach it to the MUP, and of course, when we attach it to the MUP, it's literally shut down. The Croatian Mine Action Centre doesn't deserve a ending like this. Once again, answer my question precisely why are we selling Evo TV, who ordered you to sell it, under cover of 54 agencies, or myself, I am absolutely the first to work out a number of arrangements to shut down, I have suggested to shut down former President Stipe Mesic's office, which has passed on at the Assembly, not so easily but it has passed, the office has been shut down. And such countless offices, agencies, however, which is why you shut down, which is why you shut down the Croatian Mine Action Centre, we didn't get any answers. I want you to give me the answer to these two questions. I believe you will give a reasonable answer, as far as Evo TV is concerned, but the Croatian Mine Action Centre, because there is a lot of guessing and advocacy for foreign companies that do not work in the interest of the Croatian economy but in Germany. I care more about the Croatian people than Angela Merkel, Macron, Tusk, Juncker and all those Brussels officials. And I don't care what your party chief will be on the European Parliament list, whether it's a European council or not, I'm interested in why you're selling the national interest, which is in this case Evo TV, which has 6% of the market now and which is on the rise and which has profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122145	Thank you. A respected representative, Sonja Cikotic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122146	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Reform Plan and what came from the European Commission for a period of 4 months. 2017 to 4 months In 2018, he clearly says, "There is no progress in the area of public administration reform." What I mean is, I am extremely sorry that it is in the first quarter of 2018. The government has not met its legislative plan, i.e. there is a lack of regulation, meaning the right area, the person, the relationship of legal persons, agencies with public authority. In fact, you haven't arranged a legal framework, so, a public authority agency, to regulate how people will be employed there, in which way people will be rewarded there, in which way those persons, for example, who do horizontal jobs, or those accounting-technically, in one agency someone who collects wages, will have a higher salary than someone who does the same job at the ministry. It's just, it's all played out, it's not done. You come with the conclusion of August 2018 of the government without a single clear impact. So, if there's going to be less need for space, if there's going to be less equipment, if there's going to be less energy costs, if there's going to be less mass wages. The smaller mass of wages will not be safe because the 2018 budget is foreseen for services, public services 27.9 billion kn, while the same weight is 29.1 billion kuna in 2019. Furthermore, what I'm saying is that reforms often come from this ministry. Reforms are coming, in terms of, there was also a reform related to rewarding and punishing officials. It would be 0.5% of the salary. If a civil servant has a salary of 6 thousand kuna and you punish him by 0.5%, that's 30 kn. If you reward him, it's still £30. What I'm saying is, 54 agencies have been shut down, actually it's not lifted, the citizens need to know clearly. In fact, all employees of these agencies will continue to co-exist in the state service, but not in the agency, but in the ministries. Many of those actually came from these ministries. This is not a reform, this is actually a move of officers from one institution to another, in this case the ministry. Also, yesterday we had opportunities to read in the media how it will actually come to, there will be the dismissal of 500 employees in the state administration. One of my colleagues, I can't quote him now, but I will say, "It's unfortunate in the end, that all public administration reform has fallen on one game stone, scissors, paper because they say that 500 civil servants are now being fired and that they are in minister's scissors." Furthermore, I don't know how to fire 500 employees through severance payments because, in the budget of the Ministry of Administration, that money is not foreseen in 2019. It also clearly states in the same article that all these laws, based on which 500 civil servants are to be sent, will be in force as of 1.1.2020. I would also like to point out that there are no reforms in 2018, so now there will be no reforms in 2019. We have two signed projects, one is the development of a competence framework, and the other is the introduction of a quality system into public administration. Both projects were signed in May 2nd. 2018, they are worth 53 million kuna. So far, according to the official response of Minister Kuščević, the same two projects for a total of 127 thousand kuna have been spent on the reform of public administration, for the project of the competence framework, and for the project of the introduction of a quality system into public administration, 57 thousand kuna has been spent, meaning no more than 200 thousand kuna, from 53 million kuna agreed upon, according to the Secretary-General's reply. I would just like to add that we are certainly in order to reduce the number of agencies, but they should have certain criteria. In fact, we need to know that agencies, the agency type of public persons with certain powers, had certain criteria for setting up. This would certainly mean, more effectively, more rational and quality functioning because public administration should be a service to citizens. The cost ratio and use means what is more favourable for Croatian citizens. What's happening right now is actually a verse. You were scheduled to abolish 20% of the agencies in the 5th month 2018 according to the national reform plan sent by this government to the European Commission. You are forecasting only in the 4th month 2019 to produce a law that will define the activities of agencies with public powers and now abolish them. What key? How many will be abolished? Whether it will be a reform like that reform that has already been announced about rewarding civil servants with 0.5% salary, 0.5% is 30 kuna. That doesn't sound very motivational and it sounds like there's no plan, so it's proposed without a plan, and it doesn't really know what it's really trying to do. We left in the 4th month 2018 of the Agency Act, it should have had several main principles. The first principle was a unique law to establish, he doesn't exist now. The agencies are not for profit, it should be clear to everyone, this law would result in the removal of agencies, meaning the permanent abolition of some agencies, not the care of those employees within the ministry system, the same pay for the same job. The consent of ministers to the regulations on systematisation, consent and in certain ways in which additions and bonuses can be granted. We were also in favour of making programming agreements with the ministries. It means that the agencies have certain objectives each year to achieve, a number of requests that need to be processed or a number of contracts to be processed, depending on what the Agency is established, so they could monitor what we have invested in public money. Public money is collected from tax poverty, and then instead of the €27.9 billion paid in 2018, 29.1 billion was planned for 2019, so much for rationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122147	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the state secretary, the respected Darko Nekic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to try to do from all these discussions is to isolate what I wrote down. But what I think is important at the beginning of the mention, so every ministry means it analyzed agencies from its own circle and based on these analyses means the Ministry of Administration has made a bill. I think it's important to mention because it means because of all these questions that have been raised in these discussions so far. As for one of the questions mentioned here on the way, and it has nothing to do with this law, and this is the matter of assistants and directors, the Ministry of Administration has made and left in the procedure of the Bill on the System of State Administration which will soon come to your benches in this House and which is indeed foreseen to abolish the post of Assistant Minister but then, when it comes to the agenda somewhere after the new year, you will have the opportunity to say a few words about this law. As far as the State Inspectorate is concerned, all the analyses made showed that the inspection system for the ministries was not good and that a mistake was made the moment the State Inspectorate was abolished. That is why this proposal goes on to mean that the State Inspectorate is being re-established and that all these inspections are being carried out within the framework of the State Inspectorate. It's our opinion, and by the way, we've been through this law, and we've predicted it's going to work a lot better than it's ever been before. So as for the questions that you asked me, Mr. Bulj, meaning some of them can and can't answer, but I certainly think that you were wrong when you said that 2,000 700 people were admitted to the Ministry of Lovre Kuštević, I believe that it was some kind of a lapus, so the Department of Administration has about the same number of employees as it did on 28.4.2017, and I'm sure this morning because I saw that data. So, with regard to these statements and related to the reform, including wage reform, the wage reform regulation is only in the draft. And the story of 0.5% rewarding or not rewarding is therefore just one of the variants of that regulation. So this regulation was adopted and could not be passed until the Payments Act was adopted. As far as the signed projects are concerned, the incorrect fact is that only these two projects, which the honourable representative mentioned, have been signed. So today is 12 or 12.12. The Ministry of Administration signed contracts for 6 projects and according to the ZNS means it was withdrawn, i.e. a request to withdraw more than 4 million kuna funds. So it's incorrect that only two projects are agreed. It is interesting that we had at our disposal means the period from 2014 to 2018 and it is even more interesting that no contract was signed in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. So all these six contracts were signed in 2018. So even in the end, as regards the Law on Agencys, which is a respected representative, unfortunately not here, I mentioned, but in my opening statement, I also told her that this law was not made on 28.4. I personally signed the hand-delivery record and then received a table mentioning the Law that had neither transitional nor final provisions, nor that main part of the text of the Law was completed because in almost every article there were several variations to what this Law should look like. Here, I've tried to answer all these questions that you've asked, which of course I could answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122149	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122150	You haven't answered any questions. I'll answer some questions. I told the state administration. Public servants are over 2700. Secondly, 880 million kuna is located, that's right, you're tribaling out of funds, you're pulling only until the second month, so 4 million. You haven't answered one question, but it's a very important question. I would ask you to answer correctly, precisely. Of the 54 agencies, the institutions you shut down, you don't shut down, you transfer, it's sold here-TV, it's sold, it's written. Can you answer me with what analysis was made, who analysed that the company that is in the profit, to sell to a foreign teleoperer who has a monopoly, which is owned by the Croatian Post Office and which is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to ask you a precise answer, which is why we're selling here-TV on the list of these 54, which is where you're talking about the agencies, your reforms?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122151	Next replicas of respected representatives Branka Juričev- Martinchev. I gave my first word to a colleague of Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, the Honorable Secretary of State, as you said, these amendments to the Law will essentially streamline the system. I would supplement what my colleague Cikotic said, namely, she stated that the expenditures of the state budget for employees in the following year are projected at over 29 billion, which is more, almost 3 billion more than that of 2017. However, it should be noted that the expenditure on employees who affect the level of the deficit, the surplus, will be two billion lower, which means that two billion kunas of staff expenditure, will be financed from the European Funds, which means that it is the employment of persons who will exclusively work on these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122153	Thank you very much. There you are, the Honorable Representative Bulj has requested a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122154	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think it's time for a break. We are here talking about reforms, about shutting down, abolishing or joining the Ministry of Certain Agencys and other reductions. However, I ask the government's representatives all the time to give me an answer for selling the e-TV to a foreign teleoperator, which is in profits, which means, annually, there are 57 million kuna incomes, 20 million kunas have profits, I ask him a question, works 30 employees, can't get an answer, which is why on the list of these 54, as you say reform agencies, sells e-TV owned by the state. I'll be on this tree, if there's a tribal, the guards will take me out. The people must be answered for why they favor a foreign teleoperer who has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia at the expense of our citizens. I ask that answer, but seriously answer me, don't, I am a representative of the people at this point, you are a representative of the Government, I ask of you the honourable representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia why it is sold, from the Croatian Post Office i.e. owned by Croatian mail, which is 100% evo-TV, which is why the Republic of Croatia, HACOM did not give them approval in the 7th month that they can have the program, but 6% of the market, the current 99% coverage is the RH signal, we sell to a foreign teleoperator and he is listed, counterpart Bačić saw the same thing yesterday, on the list of 54 of these, as you say, reforming, shutting down reform agencies. He asked you in these 10 minutes to call the government representative in charge of giving me and the public the answer, to me as a representative, and to the public who is much more important, which is why you are doing this against the interest of the Croatian state and in the interest of foreign teleopers. Who's on top of you? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Or is it the Mistetic Dynasty or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122155	Of course I'll give you a break to consult with my colleague Sladolev about it, and then I'll see you at 22:35. I note that we still have four laws to discuss, thank you very much. [[The session was interrupted at 22.27 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.36 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, the break is over, I'm sure the club's consultations have ended, and she's reported earlier, a respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, so she'll speak now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122157	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, if you hadn't had a final presentation, you wouldn't have had a replica, but there it is. In connection with the State Inspectorate, you said the State Inspectorate was involved with the power of the economy. The power of the economy, you're very broadly interpreting it, if it's in the state inspectorate and the building inspection. That part is related to the quality of the product, yes, but it's not. And anyway, you can't explain it because you still have some inspections left in the ministries. That you've decided all inspections in the state inspectorate, so no matter what we think, you have an excuse. But they're still not all inspections in the state's inspectorate. They're tied to the power of the economy and there's been a construction inspection of nothing caused or anyone else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122158	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj has broken his rules of procedure, in which did my colleague Mr. Dark hurt his rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122159	I'd apologize, I picked up before the replica, i.e. Injury of the Rules of Procedure to your digression to us that we have consulted. Not only did we not consult, we didn't have enough time, but we gave time to the secretary, to find out why EVOTV HP productions owned by the Republic of Croatia were sold, we didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122160	.../Intruder Reiner: Why is the Rules of Procedure injured, please?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122161	You've hurt your ankle. 33 where you, as chairman, are obliged to provide at least minimum courtesy, and not that you are speaking to us in this way, we have consulted. We consulted, but we gave. The possibility that the club would give the secretary the opportunity to call the responsible people in the government, give us an answer, which is why the sale of EVO TV was withdrawn. [[So you asked us to give.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122162	.../Intruder Reiner: For this you cannot ask for a break, you have abused the Institute of Rules of Procedure and I am giving you a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122163	... Chairman, through some kind of reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is still selling and gambling as it was at the time of privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122164	You're running out of time. That concludes the debate on these two points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We'd like to start working, and as announced, we're going to start with amendments to the proposals we've discussed these last few days. So we'll start by saying first about the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 547. The motion for the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendment has been submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, Honored Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122166	I thank Mr. Vice-President, the amendment is not accepted, namely the government's conclusion of August 2nd, the proposal for a reduction in the number of agencies has been adopted and the deadlines have been set precisely in this proposal. That conclusion also covers the Office for Mine Action with a fixed time limit for the implementation of the activities on 1 January 2019. Since all the tasks of the office as well as the equipment and the letters and other documentation are taken over by the IAP, the amendment's claim does not stand that the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2019 would in any way undermine the staff depletion system and prevent the completion of EU projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122167	Thank you, here you are, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, dear Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122168	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries center, the Croatian Mine Action Centre plays a major and significant role in demining the Republic of Croatia after the Homeland War. You didn't give us an analysis of how much space is left that's still inexplicable. CROMAC has professional people, trained people, and like I said, they've played a big part. Many were also killed, many were wounded, it is too important to shut down over the knee immediately in 1.1.2019. That's what the CROMAC union told you, you haven't been in touch with them, that a year delay of this law, that this part of the transfer is bridged in this way they stay in the air or on the ground. I would ask you for a very important institution, because it is still an enormous area of the Republic of Croatia, that you do not insult this institution, these people did not deserve it, many of them are Croatian defenders. What you are doing over your knee is a very important institution like CROMAC, and a large part of the surface of the Croatian space where it was occupied by the Serbians is still mined. Postponing this for a year, forming it properly and thus reorganizing it, and do not break over your knees such an important institution as CROMAC. We do not allow the Croatian Government to break these institutions over its knees, which are important for our lives, for Croatia, and especially for that area that was occupied. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122169	Thank you very much, first I ask this during the time while my colleague Bulj spoke a lot of colleagues had spoken, I didn't want to interrupt him for that, but please let's be quiet when someone is saying that you hear what he's saying. We've got 144 amendments, a big job ahead of us, if we're gonna make a noise, it's not gonna be very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122170	CONTINUED AFTER MEETING at 14.06 P.M. Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, please take your seats to begin the vote. We begin with the first point, this is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 547, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and we held a statement on the amendment at the beginning of today's session. We will now vote on an amendment which the motionary does not accept, so I ask you to vote. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We are now going to the vote, stressing that Article 252 is in line. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that with 80 votes for, 11 abstentions and 4 votes against the passed law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122219	We now move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 548. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Consequent to the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article. In 2014, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with the Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Does the Proposer's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Maja Markovčić Kostelac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122220	I would like to thank the chairman, the honourable MPs and the MPs. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters stems from the laws that you previously discussed, but let me first say a few words about the branch of transport, which is the subject of the law, which we propose to amend today. Internal navigation is a transport branch that has a large yet under-exploited potential and precisely in line with EU policies, but also with its own economic policy, this government, through a series of investments in different segments of internal navigation, but also through redefining the institutional architecture that governs this area, seeks to release the very economic potential of this type of traffic. So specifically in the port infrastructure, at this time, in Slavonski Brod, Osijek, Vukovar, projects worth 37.6 million kn are implemented, from the state budget, and 43 million euros, from different types of European funding. When we talk about inland shipping, at this point in the registers of the Republic of Croatia, 285 water facilities, of which 63 are in the process. In order to ensure the modernisation and raising of technical equipment, and thus and security, shipowners, in line with what we are carrying out in the maritime economy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is preparing a fleet renewal programme in accordance with the guidelines on legal assistance, the allowed support for inland navigation that will soon be adopted. When we talk about waterways, their maintenance is a prerequisite, for the competitiveness of ports, namely, without the reliability and availability of waterways, we cannot talk at all about the possibility of traffic development and thus the competitiveness of the port sector. And that is why we want to especially encourage the maintenance and construction of waterways, because with its dynamics, so far we cannot be satisfied. At the same time, and in order to ensure a more efficient way of managing this system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed and is set up for internal navigation within the Ministry of the Sea of Transport and Infrastructure, which has freed the possibility of rationalising, shutting down now, an active Internal Waterway Agency. And just shutting down that agency is the subject of this law. Its functions will be taken over by the competent board for internal navigation, the advantage will be to ensure better planning we will have greater efficiency and reduce costs. So I suggest you pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122221	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? I do not open the debate, the first will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122222	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the motionary from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Madam Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the conclusion of the August Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies and other legal entities with public authority is foreseen to suspend the Agency's work on waterways from 1 January 2019. The objective of this conclusion is to save at the cost of or discharging the state budget. It is precisely the provisions of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters with the Final Proposal of the Law that the existing legislative framework will be brought into line with that conclusion of the Government and will delete the Agency for Waterways, waterways from the Court Register in order to ensure a smooth, continued smooth operation of operations from the Agency of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure will take over all tasks, tasks, rights and obligations, real estate, means of work, equipment, financial resources and the most important employees of the Agency. It is also important to note that savings will not be made by layoffs of workers, but by abolishing leading jobs such as directors, assistant directors, abolishing a variety of salary supplements that do not have other civil servants and subsistences and, of course, no longer need to establish funds for the work of members of the Agency's boards of directors because their mandate ceases with the date of erasure of the agency from the court register. Smart management of taxpayers' money, rationalising costs and curbing the awakening of the state administration is necessary to speed up the growth of our economy, so I believe that this decision will also contribute, as we expect now that more rationality and efficiency in work is in place, namely the work processes and activities needed to carry out all the activities of the agency will be accelerated and simplified, as all will be carried out in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in its internal construction unit, the internal navigation administration. I therefore believe that it is good that this government has returned or established an internal navigation agency as a special construction unit at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, because this construction unit can accept the tasks of the waterway agency, and this excludes RIS operations, a national river information centre which was in the form of an agency as well as 4 port captains on the internal waterways that were within the jurisdiction of this law. The RIS business is being transferred to security of navigation in the same ministry as the 4 port captains on internal waters, which is regulated by the Port Captains Act, which is in the second reading or in the final proposal of the law, would have been at the debate in this House two days ago. These significant amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, which regulates the business of 4 public institutions of the port administration of Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar and Osijek as well as ports in the cities of the same name. I therefore believe that because of these significant changes, this law could soon be in the process of adopting a new and comprehensive law. The Ministry, as the central authority of the state administration, will no longer decide on complaints against the Agency's acts but will only bring them in and thus facilitate and speed up the resolution of requests sent by economic operators, resulting in the raising of quality and efficiency in the field of public services. When we talk about waterways we must support any change that leads to better efficiency of the system, namely river transport in the Republic of Croatia is the weakest developed transport branch with a lot of untapped traffic potential. Croatia is next to the Adriatic and Danube countries through which the 7th Danube corridor connects northwest and southeast Europe with the European waterway network, the development of internal waterway navigation and the ports of internal waters are of economic interest to the Republic of Croatia and the network of internal waterways in the Republic of Croatia, as I said, is integrated into the European waterway network and the Republic has accepted that fact through international contracts. We can say that some 1,000km of classified waterways are about 600km of international waterways, and besides that, the construction of a multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel is also planned for a length of 61km. EU membership has opened new opportunities to improve inland waterway transport, the favourable geographical position of Croatia and the internal waterways in the heart of Europe, as well as the most profitable and secure way of transport compared to other modes of transport are the main advantages of this transport sector. However, there are also many weaknesses and infrastructure constraints in the Republic of Croatia. When I say that there are a lot of weaknesses, I primarily think about the state of the waterway that does not correspond to the prescribed classes of international waterway. In the case of infrastructure restrictions, I must point out the insufficient development of ports, the insufficient construction of operational shores with the necessary equipment such as cranes, warehouses and, of course, to the obsolescence of water units and that the age of our water units is on average more than 40 years. As regards European objectives such as reducing road traffic of goods in terms of rerouting to 30% of freight in rail or water transport in the period until 2030 or more than 50% to 2050, Croatia's internal navigation with regard to the spatial schedule of waterways can mainly help to expand, mainly within wider European projects. As far as internal navigation is concerned, navigation oriented exclusively can be said for sailing between Slavonski Brod and Sisak where oil is transported, crude oil for the Sisak refinery and all others are oriented to international traffic. In view of the better integration of Adriatic ports with Europe, it is also important to build a multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel. The example is that when a cargo is carried from the port of Ploče to the railways, which is loaded in Slavonski Brod on board the ship, the construction of this Danube-Sava channel would shorten that road to the west, and I am sure that this time would be much more interesting for the transport of goods from Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other parts of world destinations. So, by building this multi-purpose channel, Croatia's internal hunting routes would connect, so Sava with Drava and the Danube, the internal waterways also with Europe, and the road to Western Europe would be reduced to 400 kilometers, then this navigation would really increase, and the benefits of building this channel are multiple. The canal would be multi-purpose and, as such, would serve as a farm for irrigation and disposal, and on the other hand, to reduce the risk of floods because, as a rule, high water supply, i.e. the peak of the Sava River and Danube water wave, weather discrepancies. We can conclude from foreign experiences that different countries, have different organisational forms that include waterway topics and in most European countries, management is, and technical maintenance of waterways on internal waters, organised as a separate service regardless of the problems of maritime waterways other than the Netherlands and Germany, which have the Agency responsible for the sea and inland waterways, and because of their specificity, or their large rivers connected to the sea and ports on them, there are many mixed navigations, meaning large overseas ships sail to these large ports. In many countries technical maintenance is closely linked to the water-economic problem, and even takes place through water-economic services, and that is understandable because maintenance... waterways on the natural rivers primarily category of river regulation for small water, i.e. for sailing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is up to us to find a model that is best suited to us and, in this sense, contribute to the economy and safety of navigation, in addition to saving, of course, we also need efficient management of inland waterways and significant investments in waterways. Europe points to the development of this kind of traffic, the projects are spoken about and the secretary of state and I hope that by realising them, their realisation will contribute to the growth of the economy, which is the basis of this legislative decision. It would also point out that more than 80% of river waterways are located in Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, and the realization of this project is certainly important for the implementation of the overall project Slavonia. Due to the discharge of the state budget, and we hope to increase the efficiency of the management and development of waterways, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122223	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this bill, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122224	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland water navigation and ports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 548, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that most of the votes, 94 for, 3 abstentions, are passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122225	Let's go to the next Act, this is the Final Proposal for the Health Protection Quality Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ number 549, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122226	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Therefore, the draft Law on the Quality of Health Protection with the Final Proposal for the Law sets out the principles and systems of measures to achieve and improve the comprehensive quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia. The accreditation process of health institutions, companies carrying out health activities and private healthcare professionals as well as the assessment of health technologies is also prescribed, all for the purpose of ensuring and reducing risks to the lives and health of patients. The above-mentioned legislative proposal deletes the provisions of the Health Safety and Social Care Act relating to ensuring and improving the quality of services in social care. The Quality of Health and Social Care Act was established by the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and Social Care, and in part the tasks of the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency since 01 January 2019, is transferred to the Ministry of Health. The activities of which the Ministry of Health will take over are: implements the accreditation process of healthcare operators, conducts the quality standard verification procedure, conducts the health technology assessment process, manages the database of evaluated health technologies, establishes a system for assessing new or already existing health technologies, cooperates with legal and physical persons in the field of evaluation of health technologies, achieves international cooperation in the field of assessment of health technologies, manages the register of given accreditation of healthcare professionals, and provides a database related to accreditation, improvement of quality of health care, education and evaluation of medical technologies, organises education in the field of ensuring improvement and promotion of quality of healthcare, and estimates of health technologies. It then monitors the standard of non-health insurance, performs other tasks in the field of insurance, promotion, promotion and quality monitoring of healthcare. The adoption of a legislative proposal will avoid the occurrence of legal gaps, all in order to ensure the continuation of the activities and continuity of the operations so far carried out by the Agency in the field of health care quality system. In this way, implementation of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies, the Institute, the Foundation and other legal persons with public authority, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 2 August 2018, will be ensured. The papers introduced by this legislative proposal also concern the addition of provisions concerning patient safety principles, which are implemented by implementing measures to raise awareness of patient safety, the development and improvement of the system, monitoring and measurement of patient safety, as well as reporting in this area, the reduction of risk of adverse events and the development of research in the area of patient safety. Health care providers, in order to ensure and improve the quality of healthcare, may also, in accordance with the requirements of internationally recognised standards, acquire international accreditation. The criteria for the recognition of international accreditation are prescribed by the minister. In order to ensure effective, effective and equally high-quality and equally accessible healthcare in all health activities at all levels of healthcare and throughout the region of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister responsible for Health shall adopt a plan and programme for measures to ensure, improve and promote and monitor the quality of health care. The plan and programme of measures sets out priorities for improving the quality of health care and measures to introduce a single system of health care quality standards, clinical quality indicators and patient safety indicators. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Croatian health care quality standards and patient safety assessments. The Ministry of Health shall carry out mandatory monitoring of the quality of healthcare indicators identified by the plan and the programme of measures in the Republic of Croatia. The health care institutions shall establish a quality commission for the health institution. The accreditation procedure is voluntary, it shall be carried out at the request of the health care provider and in accordance with accreditation standards. The accreditation by means of a solution gives or withholds the ministry responsible for health care. Here would be so much in my promotion, I would just say that we have received several amendments to Article 2, Articles 11 and 12, as well as to Article 22. All amendments are practically related to nomotechnical supplements and changes, so we accepted them all. Thank you very much. These are the amendments that the Committee on Parliament's legislation gave us, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122227	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the first person to speak will be Honored Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we are today in several laws referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of a reduction in the number of different institutions. The Health and Social Care Act, given that there was a common Ministry of Health and Social Care at the time, was also established by the Agency for the Quality and Accreditation of Health and Social Care. Looking at all the parameters in the past seven years, we can freely say that this agency has failed to meet its expectations and somehow gained the impression today as if it were now arbitrary overnight conclusion by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Three state health institutions that joined, one part of the HZZZ, one of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the Agency for Quality and Accreditation of Health and Social Care were, in fact, agencies and institutions who, after a detailed analysis of the Ministry of Health, submitted a proposal and then, on the basis of this proposal, a conclusion was reached by the Government. When we talk about this law, it is important to distinguish certain concepts. Namely, every person has the right to health care and to be able to achieve the highest possible level of health and the aim of each health system is to improve and improve the quality of health care. The quality of healthcare implies a set of measures taken during a medical procedure resulting in a favourable outcome of treatment. This prevents unwanted events that may cause a negative outcome of treatment. A very important concept regarding this law is accreditation which recognises the quality and security of health care but also the most effective method of external labour evaluation. It is also very important here to mention the assessment of health technologies which represents a multidisciplinary, professional, impartial, objective, based on the principles of medicine based on evidence and a transparent process of assessment of clinical efficiency and safety with an economic analysis of new or already existing health technologies and this assessment of health technology may refer to the assessment of one technology for one indication compared with the best existing technology and for the assessment of more technology for one indication or one more indication than the best existing technology. End the product of assessment of health technologies is a written document to contain certain domains. The main users of assessment of health technologies in the world are health ministries whether it is about making decisions on capital investment in health care, on new health programmes such as national programmes to combat various types of cancer. Users are also holders of state and private health insurance, hospital administrations, therefore all for the purpose of further making a final objective decision in health policy. In order to avoid certain legal gaps, as stated by the State Secretary, since the Agency's work has been transferred to the Ministry of Health since 1 January 2019, it is therefore necessary to adopt the Final Proposal for the Health Protection Quality Act and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122229	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122230	Final proposal of the Health Protection Quality Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 549, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the applicant during the debate and became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Health Protection Quality Act. I find that most votes, 96 for and 3 abstentions have been passed the Health Security Quality Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122231	Now we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Court Taxes, second reading, P.Z. No. 441 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Juro Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122232	... Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Honorable MPs and MPs. Therefore, the Law on Court Taxes provides for a way to charge court fees for actions taken by the court at the request of the party in court proceedings. Therefore, payment of the fee must be so balanced that it does not prevent people from addressing the courts, so that the right to access the court must not be impaired, but it must also not be so low as to contribute to the litigious litigation of the parties. The creation of a new Law on Court Fees was firstly joined in order to introduce or further encourage electronic communication with courts and to comply with other applicable rules which came into force after the last amendments and additions of the Law on Court Taxes, and in particular taking into account the fact that after adoption, therefore, it was '95. This law has been passed six times in a year, the current text of the law has been amended six times. As regards the promotion of electronic communication by courts with the parties, this final proposal for a law is proposed to reduce court fees for submissions submitted by electronic means of 50% of the prescribed fee. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Encouraging electronic communication will result in administrative discharging of courts, which will result in speeding up court proceedings and ensuring better charges for court fees. The component of the applicable law is the tariff of court fees which determines the amount of the duty, so that in order to enable the flexibility of the amendments and the addition of the court fees to this final proposal, the tariff is to be laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to that final draft law, the text of the applicable law has been explicitly and normably amended. During the preparation of this law, therefore, we also took care of the social component, so that in a consistent way we allow all those who are socially endangered or those who are legally required to refrain from being freed from court fees in court, with the provision of direct release for some categories of our citizens, such as military invalids and a number of other categories of citizens. Here, that would be an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122233	Thank you very much, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, so here you mentioned that this law freed some category of citizens from paying court fees. And that's great, that's good, that'll help our citizens. However, there are no persons with disabilities among those who are exempt from payment of court fees. My opinion is that people with disabilities belong, most of them, to the poorest group of citizens, so here I am going to submit an amendment, so I ask you to consider getting rid of court fees from persons with disabilities. So, those persons who can prove their status by valid correction of the Institute of Art and... / Intruder: Thank you./... professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122235	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122236	.../incomprehensible/... so we will consider this proposal with due care. We think at this point I don't see any important reasons not to respect it, so we could expect this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122237	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122238	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State Martinović, the respected assistant minister of Simundja Nikolic, before us the proposal for a Law on Court Taxes, second reading, as the State Secretary met us at the very beginning, this law prescribes a way to charge a court fee for the actions taken by the court at the request of the parties in the proceedings themselves. We welcome normally this through the adoption of a new bill because the fact itself has since '95. changed six times, but here is the introduction of electronic communication by the courts itself, this is an important change regarding the court's own fees. The main objective is also to encourage electronic communication, the participants themselves in court proceedings so that this proposal and proposes a reduction of court fees for submissions submitted by electronic means of 50% of the prescribed fee and the submissions submitted by the party by electronic means of payment of the fee at the very moment of submission of the submission. While, for submissions received by the court by electronic means, the right to a reduction of 50% of the amount of the court fee shall be granted only if the fee is paid within 3 days of receipt of the application. In this way, we believe that simple procedures for the necessary amendments and additions in the future will be ensured by the granting of tariffs of court fees under this law and the regulation of the rules on the tariff of court fees brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the payments themselves and the costs of advances of art, the evidence should be submitted automatically to the file by the court, which is more up-to-date in writing, because sometimes only the hearing is held and unnecessarily if the file of proof of payment has not arrived. We also know that in some courts and we have discussed this in the first reading of this law, no confirmation of the payment of the fee should be delivered because only the accounting of courts automatically puts a mark on it, while in some other courts it is not the way and it is not the practice of how it is done and everything must be sent by mail. As for the subject matter itself, which is interesting and what we also warned in the first reading of the Ministry of Justice, then we realized that there were no misdemeanor and administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Court of Justice doesn't even have an ad board, where automation can take all judgments down, but everything is sent by mail, which is definitely neither effective nor economical, and we believe that soon it will change. The differences between the two readings are linked during the entry into force of the Law to comply with the National Reform Programme, here, as the Secretary of State has told us, all about persons who are also exempt from payment of court fees and these opportunities, which we believe will be adopted by our colleague Lukačić's amendment regarding persons with disabilities, so that all in all with these small changes and this Amendment, future and electronic communication of courts, we believe that we have a quality proposal in front of us and the HDZ and its club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122239	Thank you. The next club representative of that HNS in the name of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122240	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It's very short, given that I've discussed this in my first reading, now that I'm not repeating myself, this time, all of what was said then, and what we've heard now, that we think that at the HNS Club we welcome these changes, and above all, this digitisation that has been proposed in this way with financial effects, so, with 50% reduction in tariff payments if it's spoken of by electronic means and which have also been received by the deadline of 3 days, I think it will absolutely contribute to the discharging of courts in that administrative sense, not in the very... The court itself is most often burdened by it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is good, too, and we also like to say that in this way we do not end anything, as it has been so far, so there are still deposits in notes up to 100,00 kn and in accounting these methods of payment are worth even now, only by doing this in one proper way to stimulate e-business or digitalisation itself, if you want the courts themselves. I'd also like to mention an article. 26. which speaks of a change in the rate of duty on obligations in case the court determines a new value, therefore, where this is introduced when the fee is paid according to the new value of the case of the dispute, from the date of the decision being taken, so, let's say that it is fairer and corresponds to the real part and the part that I see as being stated in the observations that the applicant did not accept. But now I don't remember the text from the first reading, when we talk about liberation, I think it's art. 10th, about the release of the fee. In my first reading, I pointed out that the procedure for the release was, therefore, out of the law, if I am not mistaken, in 2003 it would have been quite simple, where only the IRS was to come forward, and the statement was to be given to the court, now a separate administrative procedure that made it difficult, extends and those who may not have been legal professions, certainly makes it difficult for them to access the court itself. It is stated here that this will be settled under the Specific Regulations, and so it is said in the very explanation, so I would take advantage of this opportunity that, since this is about the Law on Free Legal Assistance, to really consider simplifying if we talk about some lex specialism in relation to this Tax Act, at least part of it that in that, some further amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, try to facilitate it, liberalise and enable those who really have a weaker property status in view of the number of members of the household and all that those fees which are not sometimes even cheap if we talk about some ordinary 500,00 kn for a submission, someone who has a family member of perhaps 1,000,00 kn, it means a lot to them, so that, on these sides, the guidance of their rights, usually means administrative procedure, new notes, new documents, etc. And then maybe that's what's distracting them from the court itself, and that's why he'd just take the opportunity to consider it because I think he's here in art. 10. Well placed to be edited according to the Special Regulations, so that this door is exposed, that it can be arranged, not only by this Law. So, in conclusion, the HNS club also remains that, I believe that the granting of a tariff on court fees to be resolved by a Regulation adopted by the Government will certainly allow flexibility both faster and more spotless solution if it is seen that some disproportionate or any necessary corrections occur. Finally, the HNS Club accepts this in this proposal as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122241	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Orsat Milenic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122242	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, assistants, colleagues, here, it's a late hour, I thank you for waiting, but here's what it is, it's our job all. Oh, well, it's kind of our job, we didn't drag it, we sit there like that. In any case, the first thing, I absolutely support what you're doing in the law, so this intensity that people are actually encouraged to go, means that moving in an electronic way in court proceedings is something that's good and I like that you chose access to incentives, not punishment. So far, he's always given a much better result when one is encouraged, when one is given to pay less than when it's eventually penalized. I hope you're working on this, too, that this will follow the appropriate electronic platforms, so that people will actually be able to do it and implement it, that it will be with a degree of force activated. And, well, I won't be long here, the law is what it is, this fellow proposed by the Amendment, absolutely and we will support it, but I think that, as far as I understand it, you will accept it, and then it will become an integral part of the Law, and that is something that is absolutely right. I know it's late hours, I won't last, but there's one thing that maybe we should think about the future, it's about this law, not now, because it's not covered by the solution, but it's one strategic thing, and that's because we've built a functioning system of free legal aid in Croatia, because this law also prescribes a whole series of let's say social categories of citizens, but also the kind of procedures in which the tax is not paid and it predicts, as you yourself said, the possibility to get rid of the fee, I think, that the time has come to think about whether we can't pay the tax to connect with the court's treatment. I know we already had that once, that it was brought down by the Constitutional Court, but it was at a time when we had neither a system of free legal aid nor a system so wide as to release court fees. But now that we as a state, as a society, can guarantee anyone who doesn't have to be released, right, then I don't see any reason why those who don't pay, and don't pay the court's fee to do so. And I don't see how that would put citizens' rights to access the court in any way. Here's all of us sitting here with our salaries, which is why we should eventually not pay the court's fee and have the court handle it. Go to any other activity where you don't pay, you won't be treated. So that's something that I think should be a step forward for the future, which would free up a whole series of court proceedings being conducted just because they're cheap, but on the other hand, courts and tax administrations would be relieved of a number of payment procedures where the parties aren't really interested very often because what, they're going to get legal protection and then, if charged, they charge in some executive state procedure. And that's something that loses energy and money. I say, if we can secure and we can through free legal aid that anyone who doesn't get released from court fees then I don't see any reason why we wouldn't tell those who do if you don't pay the court won't work. And that's something that would have a positive impact on our judicial system, especially on the legal discipline in this country. I'm saying, this has been too much of a step now, I'm sure you've had in mind and that decision of the Constitutional Court we're talking about, but it's been made in another time, and I'm convinced that this solution would pass today. And you would be freed, look at how many courts are running tens of thousands of executive procedures to collect the court fee, and that's what we all pay in taxes. And instead of the court doing something else, he's in charge of a court fee, against whom? Against whoever has it, who could pay and wouldn't pay. And that's bad. So I am for us to expand the circle of citizens who will be released, that absolutely works the system of free legal aid, but after that, to lay down a simple rule or bring paper that you're free or you have to pay and if you don't pay the court won't act. So it's black white and it's very fair and very social. It's fair to those who pay taxes neatly and they're all protected, they'll all get legal protection. Here, I won't take any longer it's just for thinking and for some next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122243	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. I'm sorry, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will now move to a statement on the amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Court Taxes, second reading, P.Z. No. 441. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed and the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Lukačić. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122245	Thank you very much, Vice President, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122246	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122247	Final proposal of the Court Tax Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 441, the motion for the act is the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Lukačić. The amendment was made at the beginning of today's session, the government accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Court Tax Act. I find that most votes, 94 for and 3 abstentions, have been passed by the Court Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122248	So we'll move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Justice Department Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122249	Once again, thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Therefore, the second reading, the final text, the need for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, arises primarily because of the need to bring domestic criminal law into line with the acquis of the EU, and in this respect we have harmonised our material, criminal law, therefore criminal law with the Directive, on the prevention of tourism, with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2017 on the prevention of fraud committed against the financial interests of the Union with criminal remedies. By Directive 2008 on the protection of the environment through criminal law, then the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement, the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities. In addition to that, the harmonisation of criminal legislation has been carried out, the crime of money laundering referred to in Article 265. KZ with recommendations from the report on the fourth round of the evaluation of the Republic of Croatia on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing adopted at the 42nd plenary session of the Council of Europe Committee on the assessment of measures to prevent money laundering and financing of money laundering. Other amendments and additions are proposed to tighten the legal criminal legal policy of punishment in relation to the offences of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child prescribed in Chapter XVII. Penalty law. The aim of the proposed amendments is to achieve a stronger overall preventive effect of the punishment of gender delicacies committed to the harm of children. It is proposed to tighten the sanctions for the criminal offence of causing road traffic accidents when the action was committed with intent and as a consequence caused the death of one or more persons, so the upper limit of the prevented sentence is raised from 12 to 15 years and thus enters the jurisdiction of the county court, in the jurisdiction of the county court. The proposer proposes by the final proposal of the law to prescribe a new independent crime of coercion towards a healthcare professional in Article 315a of the Penal Code as a reaction to the emerging forms of coercion directed towards healthcare professionals in connection with the performance of their health activities as a public service. Finally, the fourth amendments in question and the supplementation of the KZ are changes in the nomotechnical nature as well as the elimination of deficiencies and doubts arising from the legal text which are seen in the practice of applying the KZ. More important differences between the first and second readings, I have a need to emphasise, in relation to the bill's proposal, the proponent in the final proposal of the law amended or added the following. Coordination with the Schengen Convention on the Implementation of the Agreement. Therefore, there is a stronger emphasis and emphasis on the principle and due pro reo that must be applied in the Schengen area in which we are preparing to enter, so since the area becomes increasingly a single area and the principle of "not twice about the same" will apply if one is tried in one of the countries Parties to Schengen, that would be a reason not to be tried in other countries. Strengthening the legal criminal-law policy of punishing gender delicacies committed to the harm of children, and this is the paper created between the two readings. Harmonisation with the Council of Europe Convention against the Trade of Human Authorities, compliance with the Environmental Protection Directive through criminal law and tightening sanctions for the crime of causing road traffic accidents with deadly consequences. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122250	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122251	Dear Secretary of State, here I am day, this morning I have made an amendment and I would still like to think about it well now that we have a chance to bring in a new KZ and it's a matter of fact and it's very important, it's quite relevant. To be declared an official person by educators, teachers, teachers, professional associates, educators, directors in pre-school, primary and secondary education institutions, as well as a teacher and associate in higher education institutions. So we have a situation that the state has given these people a mandate to do this job as well as to official persons in local self-government units, regional self-government, civil servants, anywhere and not protected, or if something happens, they must seek justice in private suits and consider it unfair. And another very important thing, if they were to accidentally misbehave as with the official person, then they would also answer the article of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122252	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122253	So, in short, since it's a replica. There are no easy and small procedures in the criminal justice sphere, so whenever we touch criminal law regulations, we actually do something, we use tools that are only extremely used to protect the social goods that we have chosen to protect. So through the criminal-legal aspect, we're doing the protection of the greatest social values. So it's not true that those categories you want to protect in particular aren't protected, so they're protected like all citizens against any attacks on them. So at this point, I personally believe that, and it was not unknown to the working group that was working on this law, that such a thing is not acceptable and that there are no criminal-legal reasons to accept stronger protection than the usual protection that everyone has for teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122254	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the Honorable Representative of Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In addition to compliance with EU Directives on the implementation of the Agreement and Schengen, the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Authorities, the recommendations of the report on the fourth round of evaluations of the Republic of Croatia, the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, this proposal for a law is further regulated by some extremely important areas. As an important newspaper that we welcome and for which there is sure to be a consensus among all MPs in the Croatian Parliament is the strengthening of the legal criminal justice policy of punishment in relation to the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of children. The stronger achievement of the relevant effects of gender delinquent punishment committed on the harm of children is seen as a civilizational step and we strongly and uncompromisingly support it here. A significant change that is proposed also refers to the obsolescence of serious acts of sexual abuse and the exploitation of a child with whom... environment prescribed child death. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, this bill introduces tightening of the legal penalty policy in relation to the criminal offence of causing road traffic accidents with a qualified severe effect. We have seen from a series of examples that mild penalties and mild court practice on this issue have created general dissatisfaction and have further undermined trust in the rule of law. We welcome the tightening of the policy of punishment in this direction, the issues that may be here asking her to take over in jurisdiction in resolving these cases by the county courts. Namely, the county courts shall be responsible for first-degree proceedings for all criminal offences for which a sentence of 12 years is prescribed for more than one unless a special law is prescribed otherwise. We advocate that, however, the jurisdiction to act is left in municipal courts. We believe that it is unnecessary to transfer jurisdiction to county courts and that an exception should be made in this matter. We also believe that every KZ and otherwise every law should read signs of time. This law is partly he... So he sharpens the penalties in respect of the acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation, so he sort of read what didn't happen 15, 20 years ago and we welcome but here's my colleague Zekanovic and I will mention it because it's my profession that I've made an amendment to practically this regarding teachers, professors and in some way to declare them official persons and to protect them in this extra way, precisely because it's a sign of time that we last had 10 days to witness, so countless professors' testimony in our schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's good to open up a debate about it. I think it's a good thing that these testimonies came out, I think that these testimonies are authentic, so that the teachers don't write nothing, I think it was taboo at school, that the professors were afraid to talk about it because they were, because they thought they'd be declared bad teachers and those who don't know how to hold on to discipline, and this Francis case, Professor Francis in Chakovec, opened up an important topic. You've already said that there isn't some, so at this point political will to further protect this profession, but I would just mention that this is not just about, this profession, but actually about protecting other students in the class. In this whole debate about the protection of teachers and teachers and this initiative, we forgot one fact, and in fact 98% of children suffer here, actually to suffer our entire education. Of course, there must also be some objective circumstances, but I don't think anyone would want to throw chalk at him at his work, curse him, carry knives to his workplace without the system responding. I think the system needs to be improved, I don't think this amendment would solve the whole meaning of violence at school and violence against teachers by individual students, but I think the present situation would be better now that is unsustainable. So please, here's another review of the amendment, and I'll show myself when there's going to be a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122256	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122257	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear secretary of state, dear assistant minister, since it's almost midnight, I'll be very brief. Those who follow this topic know that several months ago the HDZ Club proposed amendments to the Penal Code with a view to better preventing and punishing sexual abuse, exploiting children and first reading we passed and today we have a final proposal which is for the sake of practicality and for better organisation united with other amendments to the Penal Code. Although it is almost midnight to say very briefly a few basic information to know what has been improved by this bill proposed by the HDZ Club, and it has been reached by consensus with the Ministry of Justice to come to another reading today. These amendments to the law we got practically after, so there were almost no changes like this ever. We've received the indemnity and persecution of the perpetrators of child sexual abuse, but also the non-depreciation of the execution of sanctions against that perpetrator. And it's a really big deal, and it's important to say that this proposal, with the support of the profession, has entered the Penal Code because it's never been before. And be careful now not only that the range of punishments has been lifted, but the criminal, i.e. The perpetrator of this sexual abuse has now been brought into a situation that we will practically never forgive him. He lives in non-obsolete, and so far in the entire Penal Code there were only a few articles, several crimes were non-obsolete, such as genocide, serious murder, terrorism. Now, for example. you have a situation, if the perpetrator commits a serious crime resulting in, say, the death of a child and literally flees to a neighbouring country, say BiH and, say, 10, 15, 20 and 30 years and more and, say after that time, the perpetrator will return to his country of Croatia again and the sentence which is now even more severe by these amendments to the Penal Code. So, apart from the fact that we've introduced no obsolescence of the execution of punishment and no obsolescence of persecution, we've now received stricter penalties, we've got as much as we've suffered the Penal Code, and that should be said that it's clear here that it wouldn't be in 5.6 months if some clubs said that something has changed. I know that few people, very few people are watching this but this should be said for the sake of the truth and for all the facts. A few more information, also briefly, on the crimes of sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 has been accepted by the Ministry of Justice, the HDZ Club's proposal and penalties have been raised as much as the Penal Code suffers, to 10 or 12 years, respectively. Also for the crimes of sexual abuse of a child over the age of 15. Our proposals for all other articles have been accepted, children's cheating, child-indulgence, child-indulgence, so all articles practically from 158 to 166 have been changed and our proposal of the HDZ Club has therefore been accepted in agreement with our Ministry of Justice. In other words, all the fines in chapter 17. The penal law that punishes the crimes of sexual abuse of children has now been changed. And in doing so, the profession, and it should be pointed out, made sure that it is consistent with the other chapters of the Penal Code because we know that the Penal Code is an organic law that is difficult to change and that when it is changed that the general part must be consistent with the particular part. Very short in the end, we already have in the law all mechanisms that a person qualified as a pedophile does not work at school, in kindergarten, or in the playroom. Even so, I repeat, it is a mistake and a failure of a responsible person who employs such a person, not a mistake in the Law, and it should be made clear. All those who have read the amendments to this Act and have to stand by the claim that this is a very important improvement in criminal law, and what is not subject to criminal law, well, it could not have been governed by criminal law. Finally, these amendments to the criminal law passed between two readings and an expert group made up of judges and criminal law experts at the Ministry of Justice, and I am happy to say that there have been no significant objections from the expert aspect. We all agreed that what we want is both us as a HDZ club and the Ministry of Justice and ultimately the Government, we want to strengthen the protection of children, we want to punish these crimes better, and we want to better monitor those persons who committed those crimes and we have done so. In the work of the section, a number of other things have been opened about other laws that are not criminal law, which should be improved and we are sure that in some future work we will open up a space for these changes, but already and now a great step has been taken in advance and therefore finally thanks to all colleagues and colleagues in the Ministry of Justice, the club HDZ, the minister, the government, everyone who participated and supported these amendments to the criminal law to pass in this form, is this a very important social issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122258	Thank you. In the name of the club of the HNS representative, the esteemed representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122259	I thank the Vice President, your honor, once again, the Secretary of State, your associates, your colleagues and your colleagues. I won't repeat it now, I certainly welcome and we will accept these proposals, the final proposals of the law, the amendments and the addition of the criminal law. Of course, we absolutely agree and here it is stated that it is in art. Article 7 is amended as follows: The 81st century 2. Criminal law with serious acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation, etc. What I just want to take advantage of is a very short amount of statistics because crimes from the domain of criminal protection of children and families because in recent years there has been an increase and discovery and reporting of such acts. So it's not both, therefore, followed in 2017, it's 5274 crimes, which is almost 10% increase and 9% compared to 2016. Of these, the most serious crime is the violation of the rights of the child, 1125. Of course, there are the most difficult forms of child abuse, sexual abuse, child exploitation and says that in all 616 were reported during 2017 against sexual freedom and against sexual abuse and child exploitation, which is 11.6% of the total number of criminal acts of those I have cited. So almost every nine is directed against sexual freedom and sexual abuse. And now most often these works, I wouldn't have all those qualifications, nor, I mean not quite to read all the possible qualifications, but surely the public should be warned, that it should be sensitised, that, of course, punishments must be monitored and subjected to the related and qualifications of the works themselves, I'll just say that of all of them there were even 28 acts of rape, fornication, 40 etc., the exploitation of children for pornography 185, the sexual use of a child under the age of 15, 184, so that's what happens, between us and every glare on the eyes or when we close our eyes, when we see, when we think, contributes to this negative statistics. And that, just this way, I want to warn the public that this is actually about when this whole statistic is basically damaged by 468 children or children, and by 272 perpetrators. And I think that's enough reason to approach this kind of change, and that's something to be noted, not to be glare, as disgusting as it is, as much as we don't want to accept it, it's obviously happening in the Republic and it's growing, and that's what we need to deal with in the most serious sense. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122260	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and all of you, I've already welcomed you all, so I won't do it again. Here and through the debate there is one thesis that is very popular, people are glad to hear, and that's an increase in penalties, so everything will be fine. It's not like that. I'm not against an increase in sentence, if it's a consensus to get up, I can go worse, but if someone thinks they're going to overcome a certain problem by increasing the sentence, it just isn't. Nowhere in the world has an example of this happening. That's not how it works. The countries with the most liberal punishments, the Scandinavians, have the least crimes. That's right. The countries with the most severe sentences of which still have the death penalty, there are many more. You have countries, take the U.S., one federal state has a death sentence, the other no, and the street divides them. No perpetrator crosses the street to commit murder where there is no death penalty, so it is not deterrent, it does not prevent. A severe punishment does not prevent. She's good because as a society we send a message and that's why I'm not against it, but here is a much more important problem and that's what happens in practice. We here, say, have an increase in traffic mortality at 12, at what, 15 max, right? And has more than five been said in practice? I don't know, maybe if it's 7, 7. So in practice, we have a maximum of 7 said and now we're going to increase from 12 to 15. So what do we get with it? We may be sending a message, but in practice it's still going to be these seven and that's it. It's not the first time that we've reached out to put the fines at bay without in practice changing anything. Do you know how many times we've increased our sentence in economic crime? Many times. There's no government that didn't do it. You'll probably do it by the end of the term. You'll come, you'll increase and you'll say now we'll all be severed, there won't be any more. And more than ever. So it's not a deterrent system. I repeat, he's good at the message level, but I just don't want us to fool ourselves here and fool the public that we've solved the problem now. That doesn't solve the problem. As I don't even know how to introduce the Penal Code into schools as predicted here, it suggests from some colleagues how far I've come about throwing chalk to be a crime which isn't real. As a matter of fact, I have to admit, I've been watching this change for doctors and I didn't really understand what you're trying to achieve in the ministry and here in the law right now because you're actually putting coercion on it. So it will be applied if someone prevents a doctor or a healthcare professional from performing his duty. It's a little illogical because it means what, I'm gonna stop someone from treating me, so then I'm gonna be held accountable. I mean, do you understand? I don't think this was the intensity you wanted, but I don't see what it's going to do here in practice. Because we say coercion in preventing his work. So a patient who started to complain that he wasn't well treated doesn't stop him from preventing work, which is threats, etc. When are you threatening a doctor? You threaten him because you're not happy, but you don't threaten him, you can't do it now, you can't treat me because I'm gonna break your head and it says here, and in that case it's a crime. It doesn't make sense. I don't know, you don't get to think about it anymore, but what it says here in practice isn't going to lead to anything. It sounds nice, it looks nice, it's so made but nothing's going to happen. Because I'm saying it doesn't make sense that someone is threatening someone not to treat him or force him, etc. Okay, but what you said, I agree that any incursion in the Penal Code is sensitive and maybe sometimes it's better to touch less than to endanger the entire system. And here is a very, very cautious approach, I would agree and over time everything will be carried out through practice and will be seen what is and how is applied, and this tightening of the penalties that we have received, whether we will have more or less. The Croatian problem is not a punishment, the Croatian problem is not to detect a criminal offence, and when the crime is revealed the length of the procedure is your biggest. And it's not just here, it's in all parts of you. A country that has a successful fight against crime is primarily working to detect the perpetrators and the speed of sanctions. When he knows he'll be discovered and that his sanctions will come soon, then he doesn't decide on a crime. If he knows that the sanctions are very strict but there are great odds that he will never be convicted, which Croatia belongs to, because unfortunately for the length of these most severe crimes we fall into the fact that it seems to us that there will be no judicial judgment for a long, long time or that there will be none, then the perpetrator will not prevent it at all. You know, it's like in these countries where they cut their hands when they steal and steal anyway, so they cut off one of them and steal from another, that's it. But when he knows he'll be discovered every time he's punished and smaller but when he's fast, then we're successful. It's not a matter of criminal law, it's not even criminal. And that's why I'm saying what you're changing here I support, I don't have a problem with it and I'm just saying let's not get carried away with it that we're going to achieve something revolutionary because we won't. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122262	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an individual debate which was attended by a respected representative, Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122263	Thank you. Well, here I just have to report clean why, as far as something and the doctor is concerned, and although the legal profession as Mr Milenić says is not about writing coercions to a healthcare professional but clearly does not know what kind of situations we are dealing with so that we, as doctors, welcome such forms, or such a form of law aimed at healthcare professionals and that you have regulated this article in some way and protected doctors in the course of their activities. To avoid any confusion now that doctors do not need it, I'll just say a few statistics based on the last few surveys. More than 90% of doctors said that they experienced some forms of violence during their medical activities, about 70% of them experienced violent behaviour either from their patients or their families and only 28% of the doctors reported one of these incidents. More than 60% of them have never reported an incident. Why? Because of course they were afraid it would happen again. Of course, the system of security and physical protection in most hospitals is not effective. You have to know there's only one porter or there's no such thing. So, in any case, I commend that the amendments to the Penal Code have reminded us and that you have accepted our demands proposed by the medical chamber and that we have found a consensus on our protection. What should not be forgotten by the Penal Code that our patients with a special head of the Penal Code were in some way protected in chapter 9, where crimes against human health say, is that, where protection and health are being protected as a general public good and thus prescribed a number of criminal acts that only doctors, dentists or other healthcare professionals could answer for. And that is why I personally believe that this is how the medical activity that can now be done without any, say, violence, and that each of our patients can receive adequate health care. So once again, I welcome these changes as well as that change in the protection of children and that you have sharpened the penalties of sexual abuse and child exploitation, because like any mother, I believe that any child can have, must have a carefree childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122264	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. This concludes today's work, and we will begin work tomorrow, Thursday, at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, second reading, PZ No 451. Have a nice day, since we are, here's a few minutes till midnight. Session interrupted at 23.55 p.m. The next is a statement on the final draft law, amendments to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Marko Sladolov and representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122266	Thank you very much. The amendment of Mark Sladolev, the amendment is not accepted. We believe that the category of persons covered by the amendment in question as possible damages or victims of certain criminal offences in the catalogue of the Penal Code is already contained in the definition of the responsible person referred to in Article 87(6). Penalty law. Where a criminal offence has been committed according to the same time explicitly or truly entrusted transactions in the area of action of a legal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122267	So this was about my colleague's amendment, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122268	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I said in a parliamentary debate that the intensity of this law is good because it refers to stricter punishment of paedophiles and the non-depreciation of these crimes but that the law should also recognize the sign of time and the sign of time we have seen for the last month that teachers and teachers cannot do their job for which they are paid. Thousands of teachers and teachers' testimony came out on social networks. And so this provision of the protection of teachers and teachers would not only protect teachers and them but also other children who want to work, who also wants to teach their parents, so we think that this amendment is good. There will be a teacher protest tomorrow and I invite them all to come, show and put pressure on the legislative authority to change that provision and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122270	Thank you very much. The next argument is the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122271	So, as I have stated in the amendment, I will repeat, educators, teachers and teachers, professional associates, educators, directors in pre-school, primary school, secondary school, and teacher and associate in higher education, given that they have received a mandate from the state or the Republic of Croatia to educate and raise our children must be or have official status. It is not acceptable that tomorrow, if they are threatened by violence, at work by e.g. students who have to be protected by private lawsuits rather than protected by the state. If the State already considers official persons, it places a lot of jobs in that category such as state officials and officials, legal holders and judges of jurors, members of the Judiciary Council, public notaries, why the State would not protect those who are also given a mandate to carry out their duties. I also call here in front of my party HRAST, all teachers, teachers, teachers, tomorrow at Ban Jelačić Square, sometimes respond, let them come and say their loudly not, in this state's attitude towards the professors, not this country's attitude towards teachers, because I think, I will repeat, and my party, HRAST, that it is unacceptable to place one large category of unprotected, unprotected employees who are engaged, or I will repeat the third time they have been given the mandate by the state not to put themselves in the category of official.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122272	You're looking for a vote as well as a colleague of Sladolev's? Thank you. [[Intruder: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-12-0.u122273	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 384, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Marko Sladolov and representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Declaration on amendments was held at the beginning of today's session, and now we will vote on amendments that the Proposer does not accept First, we are going to the amendment of MP Hrvoj Zekanovic, the promoter, therefore, does not accept it. [[Let's go for teachers, all for teachers.]] I'm saying he didn't get the number of votes needed, so we're going to the amendment of our colleagues, and the government doesn't accept him. Here, vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we are going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, we need a half majority of all MPs, please vote. I find that most votes, 88 for, 28 abstentions and 1 vote against the law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code. We are now starting with: - Final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, second reading, P.Z. Number 451. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Art. 85th Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia The 172nd of July in connection with Art. The 190th Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us a respected Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
