ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92454	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The theme of my exposure is the state of the Oil Group. The situation in Uljanic and third May is becoming more difficult from day to day, and workers are rightly wondering if they will receive a salary in 10 days as provided for by the collective agreement. The Canadian client cancelled the order for one ship and indicated that the remaining ships could be cancelled within 2 weeks. Yesterday, the oil bill was blocked again. Unions in the fight for their rights are announcing a new strike. Out of all the above, it turns out that the circumstances in which the oil business now operates are indeed dramatic and that the government must urgently take measures to prevent further collapse of business. However, we are witnessing that the government is stalling its recognizable style with possible solutions and wasting valuable time. The government's lack of interest and ignorance over this problem will put more than 4,000 workers at risk. When we add members of their families, then cooperatives and their workers, it is obvious that it is the fates of 1,000 people whose future is completely uncertain. I remind you that the state is the largest individual co-owner in Ulanik and, on this basis alone, the government has the obligation and responsibility to act in the interests of the shipyard and its workers and to make the necessary decisions. But the state not only acts as the responsible master of its shares, its ownership, but also in the act in which it can legally do something, it does nothing. I'm referring to the possible application of the Emergency Administration Act, so-called lex Agrocor. Communication to e-mails recently published between members of the so-called The Borg group headed by Plenkovic and Martin Dalic reveals that the government was very careful that the law written for the needs of the government's takeover of Agrokor do not accidentally enter the Uljannik Shipyards and 3rd. May. This confirms that the government has not intended to apply this Law from the outset in the case of Oilics. The question arises as to why this was done and what are the hidden intentions for shipbuilding in Croatia. The question also arises as to why the government is not and does not want to appoint its members, why the government was late to issue the necessary guarantees and why it was late to pay its salaries, which unnecessarily caused the strike and thus the lost trust of the offenders. So the government's treatment of its assets is irresponsible, scandalous and totally unacceptable to its citizens. It seems that the laws in this country are written only for some who are estimated not to fail while others are left to uncertainty and possibly bankruptcy, and we all know what bankruptcy means. It means losing another industrial activity, losing jobs, moving out further. That's why we at the ISD Club, the PGS are asking the Government to urgently refer amendments to the law on the extraordinary administration procedure so that the law can be applied to the Uljannik and 3. May, which would save those shipyards from bankruptcy. We all remember that when the government passed this law, it claimed that it was not brought for one man and one company, but that it was a law that could be applied, if necessary, in other cases of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. I call on the government to prove it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92455	The second is a respected colleague, Tulio Demetlika, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92456	I would like to thank the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs. The subject of my present - day exposure is the problems and difficulties faced in their daily lives by people with disabilities who have spoken to me. I'm aware that the subject is so extensive that it can't be said enough in five minutes, but we still feel that we need to take every opportunity to talk about these problems. Just for the shortest time, I'm going to focus on two specific problems. The first problem I want to highlight is the abuse of the accessibility sign by irresponsible individuals, which leads to the fact that people with disabilities fail to find parking because parking spaces are occupied. We are witnessing that even falsified signs of accessibility have recently appeared, which further makes it difficult to find parking spaces, for those who really need them. Such unacceptable behaviour by those who engage in this represents extreme impudence and insolence, and this is an excellent thing to stand up to, as well as a sharper punishment and public invitation by such individuals, as is the case in developed European countries. In this regard, I call on the government to propose appropriate amendments to the rules on the accessibility sign, in order to enable the competent services, the police and traffic guards to make it easier to trust, to use a sign of accessibility of the person who has the right to do so and whether that sign is authentic at all, or whether it is forged. Persons with disabilities have long warned about the problem, as well as the Ombudsman herself for people with disabilities. It is time for their voice to finally be heard and set out to solve this problem. Another particular problem I want to point out is the achievement of certain benefits, to which persons with disabilities are entitled. People with disabilities due to medical status, I speak for those who are 80-100% disabled, are granted the following benefits, can park a car in the intended parking spaces, can use highways in Croatia without paying toll, are excluded from paying toll when registering a vehicle pay half a fee for a TV subscription, are recently granted free rides via Jadrolinija ferry and are entitled to orthopaedic assistance. However, it is only regarding certain benefits that the realisation of these benefits in practice is well resolved because people with disabilities simply show a disability card, e.g. when using the highway. In the case of the exercise of certain other rights, the procedure for the exercise of those privileges is complicated and unnecessaryly burdensome to persons with disabilities, such as in the event of a registration fee of the vehicle or in the case of payment of half the fee for a TV subscription. In these cases, persons with disabilities are obliged to propose a solution to disability each time, while for benefits relating to free ferry rides by Jadrolinia, the procedure is even more demanding. As far as this last one is concerned, couldn't Jadrolini simply use a system used by bus concessionists and allow the transport of disabled persons on all ferrys to the basic premonitions of an existing highway document. As a possible solution by a disabled person, it is proposed to create a register of disabled persons on which each disabled person would then issue a single card on the ground which our fellow citizens would then be able to exercise their rights without unnecessary complexity and waste of time. It is evident from all of this that people with disabilities face problems that are often of an administrative nature and which, with little political will, can be solved. I hope that the government and the resolution ministry will take the necessary steps to address these problems. We at the IDS and PGS will continue to visit the subject safely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92457	I now suggest that, although we are missing here four minutes, we move on to statements, to the position of clubs, so as not to re-evaluate the presentation of clubs, replicas and so on. If you agree, all those who have reached out so far are here in the hall, of course there can be someone else, if you wish, but if you agree, then we would now go to the club's point of view. So that free speech, even though we're saying we're missing four minutes to one. Do you agree? Okay. Then I will ask first on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, the honest representative of Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92458	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The theme of the Oilies has been, in particular, for the past year, during this period we have had the opportunity to watch the parade of numerous characters, characters who, unfortunately, have sought their own five minutes across the back of workers. In those years, I'll be free to call a period of destruction. It was all talked about everything and everything, and least important and necessary, how to save jobs, how to create a framework and model that is sustainable, who is this strategic partner whose primary goal and interest is to preserve shipbuilding, which is management that has competences to manage the demanding process and also important, that the state level should be changed, that the state level should become much faster in decision-making and that the state level should create the preconditions of a much more favourable financial framework. If the key stakeholders had invested energy and energy in seeking answers to these questions in those years, they would be closer to finding a solution today. The state had and the state has, tools, participate and oversee processes in Uljannik. The state as the largest individual owner, instead of showing responsibility and cutting this Gordian knot, missed the day before yesterday to propose its members to the Oil Control Board, and to make the matter worse, obstructed the selection of the remaining members of the Supervisory Board, and thus further over-needed processes. And time is leaking and time is getting smaller. But what I would like to point out is that the question of the Oilies is much wider than the Oilies themselves, the question of the Uljanics is the question of the sustainability of shipbuilding. At the very end, I would like to say that Croatia cannot feed only tourism, that Croatia needs industry, that losing industrial activity means losing jobs and further eviction. And I will conclude that Croatia, without industry, and to that I add agriculture, is slipping towards a scenario similar to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u92459	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95604	This brings us to the end of the debate by the club representatives, so we move on to the agenda. The first item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 421; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. Here with us is a respected Maja Markovčić Kostelac State Secretary in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95605	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The maritime code is the heart of Croatian maritime legislation, which significantly regulates all relevant maritime relations from those of the public, so sea and maritime spaces under the sovereignty and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the safety of navigation and protection of seas from pollution from ships, crews and the legal and social status of Croatian seamen to the conditions of business of Croatian shipowners to the demanding world market, to the course of maritime offences and international provisions on international legal assistance. The maritime code from its adoption to this day has experienced a series of amendments and additions not because we have forgotten something but because it is a very dynamic and internationally conditioned legal matter, so every time we change something on the international plan, we are obliged to do so and we want to implement it through Croatian maritime legislation. The Croatian government recognised maritime as one of those economic segments that provide a great potential for development and wants to create assumptions for the further competitiveness of the Croatian maritime economy and Croatian sailors on the demanding international market. She has adopted a full set of reform measures that make this law the second pillar of maritime legislative reform. We are, of course, implementing a series of operational measures and programmes to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping and seamen. What are the basic objectives of this law? So, as I said above all, strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian shipping on the demanding international market, strengthen the position of Croatian sailors and its competitiveness on the domestic and international markets, strengthen the attractiveness of the Croatian flag for the entry of ships, yachts and other water facilities in our records by removing a series of administrative barriers and open the way for harmonisation, further harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the EU and with some international solutions adopted in the meantime. What is Croatian maritimeity today, I'd like to illustrate it in a few numbers? 1434 ships are registered in Croatian registers, which is 1.7 million gross tonnes, which makes us a medium European flag. We have 2737 yachts of which 55 are over 40 meters, 123 thousand boats with which 62,000 foreign yachts and boats visit us in the summer. We have 22,000 active sailors, which makes us the third largest maritime nation in Europe after the Italians and Poles. In Croatian ports 23 tonnes, millions of tonnes of cargo and about 203 thousand... and 32 million passengers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The figures are not enough, we insist on quality, so we always like to praise the fact that Croatian shipbuilding is on the white list of all navigation control systems from the Parisian so-called European to Tokyo, Caribbean or Mediterranean. As I have already said, this law first wants to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian shipping. In what way? The register of ships that are currently defined by law so that it does not allow its full digitisation to be completely changed. So we're changing the procedural rules, we're going to make a list of more accessible citizens in a way that requests for records, pre-files or erasures for ships in international navigation are solved in just 72 hours, maximum. Furthermore, we will pave the way for full digitisation and creation of a unique centralised electronic register of ships. Furthermore, the tax per tonne which has proved to be a very successful measure to encourage shipping will also be applied to yachts in international navigation. What do we want to attract? We want to attract the enrollment of large yachts which are not currently included in Croatian registers, we want to attract them to enroll in the Croatian register, which would make them longer to stay in the Republic of Croatia, and thus open space for new jobs on the mainland through the remonts, through the supply of such ships, through their longer stay in Croatian ports. In addition, we end what we have called a social reform for seamen, one system through which we have all Croatian sailors no matter where the ships are introduced into the Croatian health pension system and for them a designed tax system, which system has proved to be so successful that we are being copied today by other European states that have a larger number of sailors. With these amendments to the Law of Justice, which we have seen in the application of the Law, we are correcting the reasons for the extension of the tax exemption base even in cases where the seafarer, for example, has lost his ship or has, for example, been abandoned. We want to encourage further training of seamen in universities in the Republic of Croatia, and we are counting those days in tax exemption days. The system further strengthens our defence mechanism for cases of sea pollution through a different definition and determination of a plan for sea pollution intervention, and by raising the level of liability limits for shipowners as foreseen by the latest amendments to the International Convention on the Restriction of responsibilities of shipowners. Likewise, the Naval Code also implements an international convention from Nairobi on the removal of the groundwaters. As I have said, we have implemented certain new legal solutions through the provisions of this Code. In the end, I would like to say that we have included, as always in the spirit of the good practice of our Ministry, all the social partners, in addition to the participation of our ministry's professional services and other resolutions in the government, a wide range of scientists and experts in the field of maritime and maritime law, the economy and this is, in some ways, the result of joint work, and I call on you from the heart to support and bring this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95606	Thank you. We have two replicas. First up, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95607	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, at the very beginning you said that actually the amendment and addition of this Tax Code are the heart of the Croatian maritime economy, which would agree. I'd really like to commend some of the things that maybe you haven't touched so much here, but there will be time through this debate about our sailors, and that's also about consulting with the interested public, and I've sent some things through my colleagues who delivered me by electronic means, some things. That's two things. First, the international navigation of foreigners and those 183 days and especially the release of the total income tax, which I think is very important for our sailors. And the other thing, which I didn't hear you say, which is very important, which is the trainees who will now be able to board, both in domestic and international navigation for 6 months with paid contributions and salaries, or funds secured in the state budget of 2 million kuna, which is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95608	You want an answer? Stand up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95609	Excuse me. Yes, thank you. I didn't mention in exhibiting the trainees, but the trainees were one of the elements that we included in this particular system of 183 days, but in a way that frees the trainees entirely from paying all taxes and completely exempts from paying taxes. It is an additional measure along with the programme we have for boarding Croatian trainers on Croatian ships.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95610	Thank you. The second one's next, dear colleague Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95611	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so to use an old saying, it's better to have something than nothing. So, in that sense, I am also supporting and related to the change in the status of yachts in order to be able to pay tax per tonage, to attract yachts to be tied here in the Republic of Croatia. But be careful, if we isolate it, and we cannot isolate it from the context of today's events, then another message is sent. Be careful, the Uljannik shipyard, May 3rd, and even Trogir Shipyard are in serious difficulties. It is thought that most of the shipyard is closed and that we are engaged in tourist activity, and it is in this direction that yachts are encouraged to sign up, so here it says in the Law that these yachts are here on the remont, in fact it shows one message that our shipbuilding will be aware of the maintenance of the yacht, which is not a good thing that we do not end up like in that Kekin song, hang the Zimmer Frei, lie under the palm tree and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95613	Thank you. When we talk about yachts in the context of the exemption from paying regular taxes and introducing tax per tonage, then we talk about commercial yachts over 25 meters and with a permanent crew, but when I say 25 meters in nature it's about yachts of 100 meters or more. So these are serious ships. So when you speak in the context of their remont, then their stay in the Republic of Croatia and the incentive to remont shipyards is undoubtedly significant and large. But it's not the only effect we're going to have this way. Our ports, as well as everything that is additionally spent on supplying such vessels through Croatian ports would have a very significant impact on the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95614	Thank you. Before we move on to further discussions, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Samobor elementary schools who are here with us, welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[Applause.]] If not, then the first in line is SDP's club and respected colleague Vedran Babic, better known as the Seaman of the Papuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95615	Well, there's never been a sea on the Papuk. Thank you, Mr. President. At the very beginning, I will say that the SDP Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. This proposal further harmonizes national maritime legislation both with new European solutions and with those in international contracts and with a view to improving the maritime sector. The maritime code regulates all major public-law and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime vessels. This law was passed in December 2004 and has been amended and completed several times. This amendment to the Code is in line with the EU Directive relating to the determination of basic principles in the field of maritime transport accidents. The Code also complies with the directives concerning the issue of protection of the marine environment and water quality, inland seawater and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. It also enables the direct application of the regulation relating to the establishment of a framework for the provision of port services and common rules for the financial transparency of ports. Furthermore, this law further regulates individual issues in order to maintain the competitiveness of our maritime shipping on the international market and to promote the development of the maritime economy. In addition, individual issues in the nautical tourism sector are better and more detailed and conditions are created for sustainable development and easier business of economic operators carrying out nautical activities. Furthermore, the Maritime Code regulates the status of intermediaries in the employment of seamen. By amending and supplementing the Maritime Code, it will be brought into line with the text of the International Convention of Nairobi since 2007 defining the issue of acquisition of ownership over... or submerged matters by the State, which regulate the issues of jurisdiction of the sources of funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will also be brought into line with the provisions of the Convention on Responsibilities for maritime trade for reasons as it is estimated to contribute to administrative redundancy of the economy and simplification of procedures rather than simply because it is in line with the EU acquis, the SDP club will support this proposal as stated at the beginning of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95616	Thank you. We're going to another debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95617	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I say a few words on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club on the Maritime Code, I would like to congratulate you, Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of the HDZ Club and are personally, on the election of the Executive Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency, which is clear, honoring you personally but also the Croatian Maritime Administration and all Croatian sailors and maritime workers because here is the first time since Croatia is a member of the EU, a Croatian citizen is headed by one of the European agencies. How I personally attended the opening of the EMSA in 2006. At the time, Lisbon, I had no idea that a Croatian citizen, Croatian official or official would head this extremely important European agency. For the Republic of Croatia, a country which is a maritime country, which boasts and, I say, de facto and deiure, every choice of you in that place will contribute to the further positioning of Croatia in the world and certainly also in the EU as important levers in the functioning of the entire maritime system in Europe. Which means seafaring for Croatia, which means shipping for Croatia, which means maritime good for Croatia, which means preserving the marine environment, the most beautiful, cleanest sea in the world, should not be specifically spoken for but in any case, the tasks of this ministry, the tasks of the employees of this ministry are extremely important to maintain this high level of quality of service provision in the Croatian maritime sector. As you said yourself, the Maritime Code is the heart of maritime legislation, it unites in one place almost all public-law, property-law relations in the sea and in shipping, in the safety of navigation, defines the maritime areas where Croatia has its sovereignty, say that the inner seas are water and territorial seas or are... such as an economic belt or a protected eco-fishing belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this document that we brought here in this Parliament in December 2014 practically defined the behaviour of the Republic of Croatia in the maritime sector, in boating, resolved the relations how and how to make the Republic of Croatia a country that favors its own shipmen, its own sailors on a very demanding, globalised maritime market. It was a time when on the world shipping market there was an exceptional conjuncture and when Croatian shipmen came into a position with such and then defined maritime code to enter an extremely large process of restoring their own fleet so that during those 10 years or better, 5.6 years and the conjuncture of the world shipping market, a large part of the Croatian commercial fleet was completely restored. As you said yourself, after that we changed the 5 times maritime code by introducing one of the very important heads, which is reform, the social reform of the seamen when it was made possible for Croatian sailors sailing in international navigation, then we claimed that there are around 20, 25 thousand, according to the data that we have today and we have then, on the basis of this social reform, 14 thousand sailors were introduced into the Croatian social, pension, health system which significantly contributed to social security both by members of their families. It was a very important reform. And we made it possible for Croatian sailors to pay in Croatia under the conditions that sailors have in national navigation, knowing that their admissions to international navigation are significantly higher, the salaries in the Republic of Croatia are equal to those paid by their colleagues who, for example, sail on the Adriatic ships in the national fleet. It was a very big moment when practically once we amended maritime laws, we made it possible for social, health, pension security, 14 thousand of our countrymen who are mostly sailing in international navigation. A very important change also involved defining and redefining the navigation road as an institution, a maritime institution for the construction and maintenance of navigation security facilities. A very important change to the Maritime Code refers to the introduction of a tonic tax. And the tonic tax also allowed the competitiveness of Croatian boaters to pay in Croatia, regardless of the rich or poor years in the sea and in the world and in the world economy, the prescribed fee or tax or tax, which is exclusively dependent on the ship's loadability. There were therefore a series of amendments to the Maritime Code, not because the Maritime Code adopted in 2004 was not a quality but rather as the time changing in accordance with the world shipping market, according to the state of the world economy then passed through the Maritime Code and in relations in Croatian shipping and in the Croatian maritime system. What I would like to stress today with this amendment to the Law of the Sea is that we at the HDZ Representatives Club welcome that the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have fully accepted the proposals of the Maritime Union, which is that 83 days in which the seafarer is scheduled to sail in international navigation, is freed from paying income tax and so far there have been cases that have not allowed the seafarer to be thoroughly exempt from paying income taxes in those 183 days. And that's very good, and that's certainly how we have to say hello. We also welcome the introduction of an electronic register and the fact that today at one place in any captainy or any port captain in Croatia we will be able to provide information on ships, boats and yachts that do not only apply to those boats that are registered in that respective exhibition, or port captainship, but will have an overview of all ships and boats and yachts throughout Croatia. In particular, this amendment to the Maritime Code, I hope to welcome our Kriljani, i.e. the owners of small ships for circular voyages which are growing from day to day. In this way, their ships, by amending the Maritime Code, become large yachts, mega yachts, as they are over, in general, over 36 meters. They will pay tonage tax, not taxes according to the income achieved, which in any case will allow for further investment throughout their fleet, an increase in the number of these small ships on circular voyages and it is certainly very important to encourage this, lately very large and very important nautical activities on the Adriatic. What I would say is that this law also takes care of trainees in the section relating to their stay in international navigation, allowing students to enter the system 183 days, so that this is extremely important for encouraging the employment and deployment of young Croats into this extremely quality activity and occupation. Here, in this sense, we support certain amendments to the Maritime Code and we believe that they will meet the expectations both shipmen and seamen expect from this amendment and therefore the HDZ Representatives Club will support the amendments to the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95618	Thank you. It is now up to the club of GLAS and HSU representatives, respected counterpart Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95619	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me, at the very beginning, join our State Secretary Markovčić Kostelac, because this is the first from Croatia to be appointed to the head of a European agency since our entry into the EU. There is no dispute, it is a person of top reference who in the maritime and shipbuilding system has built her entire career and we hope that her activity at the European Maritime Safety Agency will be recorded and remembered for the good. As for GLAS and HSU, I would like to say at first that we will support these amendments and amendments to the Maritime Code for a number of reasons. Not only because of the harmonisation of our Maritime Code with the provisions of several Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, but also because it adopts a series of provisions aimed at improving the competitiveness of our maritime economy, therefore, shipping, on the international market. One of these provisions is certainly unearthed, in more detailed activities, shipowners, from the list of application of the tax after deduction. Similarly, what we welcome is better at sorting out certain issues in the nautical tourism sector, which will allow for a higher level of sustainable development and easier business of economic operators in the activities of nautical tourism. What we welcome is also the centralization of registers of ships in electronic form, we would say finally. We also think that it is good that this proposal changes and complements the issue, making it easier, that is, to exempt the obligation to pay income taxes, those seamen who did not make 183 days of sailing in international navigation. And we think it is particularly important, also that conditions are created for the entry of foreign ships into the register, i.e. the register of ships of the Republic of Croatia, because this will also directly benefit the development of nautical tourism. In fact, it's little known that a single bond in the marina generates one job. In fact, if we look at the number of employees in the marinas, it's not like that, they're far less, but we need to know that behind one relationship, there's a whole series of activities, services, from maintenance, to different other services and services, to trade, to catering, where the cumulative effect can really be reduced to 1.1. In that sense, we are glad that she felt the need to relax these conditions, and we wish they were even better. I will remind you of the initiative launched by the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament in late 2012 and spent 2013 in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At the end of 2012, we succeeded in a practical action, which lasted 5 months. at a very low rate of 5%, make one brilliant step. At that time, there were about 12,000 foreign vessels on temporary contact, i.e. in temporary imports, in status, which was not permanently resolved. So these are the owners and their vessels, who did not pay auctions at that time in any EU country, and the question has been, what are we going to lose by entering the EU by applying those VAT rates and customs duties as they were then. So it was expected that no other foreign ship would be introduced into the Croatian register, because other countries, especially those in our environment, from Greece, Slovenia, Italy, had much better conditions. We were then in the Committee on Tourism, here, and my colleagues, who were then with me on that committee, initiated a joint action, which was excellently implemented and I must say, with a high level of cooperation, not only with drama associations, but with those who were gathering marinas, but also with freighters, and above all with tax and customs exactly, on the one hand and on the other hand with port captains, we are in those 5 months. managed to attract about 4850 ships to the Croatian Register of Ships. The net effect for the Croatian budget was 304 million kuna. If you go to joke a little bit, although there is half a misdemeanor in every joke, if you look at the amount of salaries, i.e. the funds, for salaries, for all parliamentary representatives, annually somewhere at about 50 million kuna, then, with the joint action, we have earned our salaries in the Croatian Parliament for 6 years, and we still have 6 years in which our salaries are paid thanks to this joint action, launched by the Tourism Committee. I am proud to be at the head of this committee, as well as my colleagues who were sitting with me at the time, because we showed the highest possible level of understanding for the problems of Croatian nauticalism at that time. In this regard, each subsequent administration has been called on to make these conditions even easier and more relaxing. Because Croatia is a maritime country and it should behave accordingly, it needs to understand what its advantages are, on the other hand, of course, which are the challenges of this status, i.e., naturally, given opportunities. Above all, in ecological terms, when it comes to environmental issues, organisational issues, as well as in terms of our obligations as a member of the EU. So there must be a constant proactive and concrete policy. I'm very sorry that the maritime ministry didn't participate in the action at the time, but, well, it's a good thing it didn't bother her. I am equally sorry, that neither in this, nor in this, variant, of our administrations, we have yet to come up with optimal laws on maritime good and seaports, unlike the laws, which define similar topics, and refers to inland water navigation, i.e., peaceful waters, or rivers and lakes, and then all the issues, which are related to ports, which are great, modern, very open, quality solved by a whole series of problems, our Law on Marine Good and Seaports, are still actually the brakes of development in many segments, or at least... for the local anarchy, instead of following positive examples of those counties where marine good management went further, more conscious, more quality, instead of following proposals made by experts in 2013 until today we do not have a modern text of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, it is one of the ministry's discretionary rights to determine the amount of concession fees. Believe it or not, differences in the level of concession fees are practically for the same thing are amazing, dazzling and when a concessionist, formerly, asks the question why he is asked five times the price for a concession from another concessionary a few hundred miles away or a few tens of miles away, corresponds to take it or leave it. It's not good, it's a machehian relationship. I can talk about specific cases if I have to, because I am well aware of this because the entire nautical sector in Croatia is burdened to the extent that we can say that the only features that connect all Croatian marinas are that they are on the coast and that ships are connected in them, everything else is different. We're still suffering the will that led to that, say, a, say, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, a, uh, a, uh, a, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, The company that was the concessionist of the great marina in Zadar went bankrupt. Today someone normally collects boating fees, and we don't know who. how it's possible that in a legally regulated, guided and regularly-inspected marina, it's regularly hanging over what the billing system is like, and there's no secret in that marina, it's about tankers, it's about who it wants. Because we know who these people have been charging for boating for years? How is that possible? And not to mention the unfair competition that has been established thanks to the existing law on maritime good and seaports, and all of this has been embroidered with our seafaring, between the so-called so-called seaports. sports ports, port for municipal purposes and marinas. It's a space for major abuses, it's a space for corruption, and that's what we need to deal with. And for that, there should be strength and this administration, if they're not before. Because it's a great shame that on something that's such a big treasure, I'd say people's treasure, general property, people's property, it actually also enables the robbery and misuse of resources, and that means ultimately sending a very bad picture of how we master what we have. what we are hated and given to understand each other because it is a natural wealth that is cultured only in some places. In that sense, we call on the government, we call on the ministry to finally address the issue. We welcome their efforts to improve the entire series of details related to the functioning of Croatian shipping through changes and supplementing the maritime code, but we will again return to the zero point. Why Croatian shipmen, why the Croatian public transport company is unable to order ships in Croatian shipyards. It's all tied up. We should have a systematic policy, not a pointic policy as we see from this law so that we can solve all these problems in one excess and long-term way that Croatia will not only justify as a maritime land, but also give it comparatively, if you want and competitive advantages from its competition in the Mediterranean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95620	Let's move on. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95621	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me join Mrs. Markovčić Kostelac on behalf of the Mosta Club and my personal name in choosing such an important function. The Mosta Club will support these amendments to such a very extensive and important law for the Republic of Croatia and for several reasons, something the predecessors have already said, namely, this law goes far into the past, its beginnings since 2004, we have a more modern law, a law that follows EU regulations, and that law has been amended several times, and, of course, through the implementation of European legislation, but also on the basis of what has been proved to be bad in practice and has sought to correct these amendments. On the other hand, it is also important to highlight and congratulate the ministry representatives for enabling good communication with trade unions and for those requirements that unions have requested regarding the status of seamen still implemented in this law in terms of greater scope of their rights or greater numbering of situations in which they can be found in order to exercise their rights. Of course, the third is not negligible, it is the position of Croatian shipping and its competitiveness in this demanding European market. But let us, however, say a few things that may have to be explained and which should be explained by Croatian citizens and us who know something less or more about Croatian maritimeity to make it clearer to us, although I am Slavonac, someone asked me before, a colleague asked me what you were going to talk about the maritime code? Namely, you won't believe, there are sailors in my place, there are sailors in my place, my nearest bar is called Sidro, and there's a boat bar in it because the boss has an enviable maritime career. And right from talking to those people who are sailors I wanted to ask some questions here so you could try to answer. Let's get back to the yachts first, so it's safe to greet that the motivation is given because first of all the tax on tonnage is the model of the subsidy, it should be emphasized, it's not actually tax in... In fact, it was actually a subsidy model and the Republic of Croatia had problems while not picking up, while the shipowners of the tax were freed because it was an illicit subsidy, so the implementation of the European law introduced a tonage tax in order to nevertheless use the permitted form of a subsidy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, I'm only interested, and, of course, my colleagues at the Bridge, which will be with a possible tax... ? However, on yachts there are other activities that will regulate such abuses to be prevented, here is one question that can be asked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the seamen and their rights to particularly welcome and this one, there is a different situation in which they can be found to achieve 183 days. However, a lot of our sailors are in the so-called. ... I'm working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, they're on a contract for a certain time and I'm curious about what their rights are when they come back, either because they got what they had, which expired the contract, or because they got sick. What are their rights in relation to, say, the Croatian Employment Service, unemployment benefits and sickness benefits. Do they have any rights in that sense? I'm talking about... workers, so not seamen who have permanent employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are some of the questions that I'm sure should be resolved. The other measures listed here, and I particularly welcome this measure for the trainees, and here in relation to yachts, will be established by the obligation of one trainee to one officer and these are good things, because indeed, as the predecessors said, the Republic of Croatia is a maritime country, the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition in maritime and the Republic of Croatia in this direction should develop that seafaring is also attractive for the young generation and for our universities and in this direction it is good that these amendments of the Law go in this direction to express myself, they advocate the promotion of our universities in order to have educated sailors, sailors who are satisfied and paid and ultimately, sailors who would be competitors on the European market. So, to conclude once again, the Most Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95622	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. The first one will be the respected representative of Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with my associates, here I would like to join my colleagues' congratulations on your appointment to a new office, a very important organization, and that is exactly what I would like to refer to this Naval Code. How I'm a fireman, so then I want to connect it a little with each other. I'm interested in making sea pollution, which is exactly what your next job will be. Namely, in the Republic of Croatia, here is my fire company there has a small ship that the Ministry gave and which serves to clean the sea on that aquarium of our Split-Dalmatia County. And I understand the situation with all that, but here. We're a maritime country, we're proud of it, and I certainly would like that in this law or possibly that it's the subject of some other laws to be a little bit more strengthened by this force here. Namely, this exercise by Adria or Adriatic, as it was called, Adriatic 2018 showed one scenario of the arrival of this ship from the EMSA that was engaged means... which is located in Ravena and how informed I am, that ship that is otherwise commercially used, but EMSA has hired and made sure that it comes and jumps into the assistance that is potentially needed by some countries here in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's nice and it's a great secanario. I'm a little concerned about the time that Marissa ship, that tanker can come to us, I don't know. If we had a scenario of an ecological pollution on Vis or there in the extra aquarium, and then normally it depends on the winds and meteorological situation that was then, what kind of scenario would happen and how much Marisa could possibly help us. Because Marissa is or is and EMSA is created... when that one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we remember correctly, those ships when they were killed and the big problems that were on the Spanish, Portuguese coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise, we're witnessing these oil or mule threats that are being transported and potential dangers. And while aware of the situation, we in the neighborhood and Montenegro, Italy in particular, can be potentially threatened with large wells. Here. And that's why you would suggest or see what opportunities are, I'm not familiar enough with the details of this state, more with this local problem of what opportunities we have in the state one so little stronger ship because these ships we have on the coast bought by the Ministry in recent years, and that's for sure to praise the Ministry in recent years that they've been buying ships of small sea cleaners, but one bigger, more serious ship that we might have alone because I say, we're proud of the maritime tradition, and our naval fleet is also competent to talk about that even the RH should. In addition, we have coast guard, we have HRM, and in particular the coast guard that has the capacity maybe to turn something there too, and then the sailing route and all those organizations that deal with the activities and protection of the Adriatic Sea, I think we should find the possibility that we as the Republic have a bigger ship than these small boats we have, that we have some larger ship where we ourselves can intervene. I respect EMSA, and now, the future that should be for Croatia, but this Marisa will have to improve because I think it's a long time when we're talking about disasters, potential risks because I know what the risks are in some other branches when I'm talking about elemental disasters. In what ends and how fast this is happening, especially in today's day because of global warming, or because of which we are witnessing and especially these new threats to think that Croatia's Ministry is thinking, and tomorrow in good contact with EMSA, to see the possibility that we could further raise and improve and have our forces stronger in this area, and in this sense I am offering certainly the role of Croatian firefighters, especially these coastal ones, because we have these strong coastal professional and voluntary units on the coast now based on all these fires and threats we have, there the forces have been strengthened. We have high-quality powers, well organized and certain that we could be helpful in this period, respecting all of what we have and the national centre for searching and saving and all our port captains that work well and are well organized, but again with small ships, so I think we should make that contact through some regulations, under legal acts or some amendments to the law, that even firefighters put themselves in systems, you saw now the situation in Istria when this ship dropped oil that the main forces were firepowers that helped worse because they and the bearers of civil protection systems. We know that in civil protection alongside the GSS, the Red Cross, divers and all these associations that are in civil protection, the strongest force of civil forces is the firemen of Croatia. We have 50,000 equipped firefighters who are ready immediately for an emergency intervention in Croatia and surely that this potential should be linked to this and in one, good and with the Coast Guard and with all the services we have, that perhaps even firefighters have additional equipment with environmental protection equipment and that this further strengthens the strength, Croatian potential in these possible sudden pollutions of the sea. Our tourism we know how important it is to us, here we are every year proud to increase the number of tourists and overnights but like this... It's too important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I suggest and suggest that either through legal acts or tomorrow, I hope better contact with EMSA find ways to get additional funds from the European Fund to strengthen this fleet in this sense of environmental protection so that we do not depend on all respect for European assistance, but we will certainly use it whenever necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95624	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95625	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. So here are just a few words about these changes and additions to the Maritime Code because I think it's clear that it's a kind of maritime constitution in the Republic of Croatia and that through a few of the changes we've been following since 2006 until today, it's clear that every change in that system, I think, we've made only good changes and that after 30 years, we can say that really in the Republic of Croatia, the maritime system is one orderly system that knows who is doing what, who, how and how it works, which is a big credit and this broad document that has really a large number of articles, and it's not easy to put all of us together and then that it fits and everything that the EU prescribes us. So here's just praise to the ministry itself for the good laws we've been discussing for two years, in all segments of road traffic, railways, seamen. We have recently had port captains, we wait for all the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports as one such, cream on cake that should round up one whole of the activities of this ministry in this mandate because we can really say that we are good at looking at other branches where we like to brag about such as tourism, so when we compare this whole system with the maritime system, how it works, we will tell us it's good in tourism, but in maritime we see that it really has everything from, I don't know, high school, college to the very schooling of the seamen who, when they leave either on the side or on a domestic boat, clearly know what they're waiting for, what they can get and how they treat the state with their payments, with their obligations. It's just that the system didn't stop, so we can say today that in maritime schools we have enough young educated people who want to study, be sailors and that they don't suffer from it, that they have a lack of staff as we do not know it, in construction schools, as we have in catering schools where we've simply lost that thread in some way and I think it's a great contribution through scholarship but also through the care that these children can really, after high school and through high school, study with practice on a special ship that was built for them to be able to acquire knowledge in higher education and then decide for themselves what they want to do for the benefit of their country. This law clearly brings improvements to the social work, again that 183 days that have always been some kind of challenge on how to agree on it and who, to whom I don't give, I think it's a good extension. And then in the act, I see that you've given yourself something and more work to do to the minister, when we talk about the consent that it gives to, say, the Maritative Studies. Construction in the maritime work is a lot of expensive construction and, unfortunately, it is more expensive than building on land. So, to build a project to build a port, sometimes it appears and it does, and it's millions of amounts, and we need to see what's going on in that sector, that it's really so expensive because we see how much it costs us to build big objects on land. It's okay for the minister to know what it's all about because every mistake at sea means, or especially in the work of a maritative study, it can mean some kind of damage to nature itself or natural flows, wind, whatever it means. The second is that the ministry gives consent to facilities that are situated in the sea. So there's a lot of that, I mean even messy from, I don't know, we don't know on land today where, say, the main light cable, no, I don't know what other people's experiences are, but I know about my island. If we don't know what's going under the sea, where are the paths where we're connecting the islands with the I don't know, the water systems, I don't know if this applies to these purification systems. Undersea discharges, whether it's the same story or not, that's what you'll tell us later. So so far, these consents have been mostly projected, and no one's given much of their opinion about it and it's about the sea. It is good to finally resolve the issue of immersion and their property because today it is one problem that arises for us. We can't ignore that we've had cases that we don't know, sink the ship, and that no one wants to worry about it anymore, and then it's gonna take ten years for it to become some kind of attraction or anyone can take it their own way. I think the good parts in the Naval Code and insurance obligations are for all those ships that enter our space, and then they leave us a ship like it was a couple of ships down on Ciovo, so you can go ahead and handle it, so charge yourself as you know if you can charge yourself. Indeed, here I say especially and in the good part it is also covered by the nautical part but only as a suggestion i.e. as prescribing certain rules that some other law must further dissipate. I think it's encouraging that we have more and more nautical ports on the Adriatic, and I think that every one that's built almost very quickly in a year or two will be full of capacity, which means that we're a very attractive destination in tourism that this is another contribution from the ministry that needs to be used now means through good promotion and through good promotional activities that really these people are being informed about what this part offers. And it's good to say the state itself through a law like this takes care of its own let's say the companies it manages like Plovdiv, I think it's one quite excellent firm today, which has had its own problems, but today it works well, everyone participates in financing this company in some way but sees here I can personally say that really every year these water facilities, i.e.. the security facilities that they are building, they are maintaining today, they really have one appropriate maintenance, and what's really going on long ago is that we want to be one safe country with well-marked labels where what can or should not be done at sea and then that makes sense. Of course, there is also a boatman who has shown a great deal of attention to him, and today he can truly perform his function to the satisfaction of all. Here again, good, good changes, positive in the maritime section in all segments and of course support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95626	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, unlike some representatives of opposition clubs who spoke more about the Law on Maritime Good, Seaports than about the maritime code, you spoke of the maritime code. I almost completely agree with what you said. It would be a shame if we didn't already get into that domain which also includes the Law on the Seasport does not mention a huge large project of this Ministry that you know very well, but should point out it is the fact that at some point the Ministry is developing a project to build up county ports and ports of local importance intended to carry out public line coastal maritime transport, where European funds invest in these ports, ports of county importance in the first order of transport connection of the island over 80 million euros. It is a project that is already at a very high stage of development and covers dozens of ports and ports, so I think at the moment that we are already jumping out of this law we need to complete and add.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95628	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95629	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. I think it's worth pointing out because for the first time we have a small segment of the operational program intended for just sea integration. Let's say the port of Tkon, which has really worked so far in the small narrowly narrowed areas, will receive one suitable true ferry port that should mean an even better step in traffic connection for the island of Pasman. But I think that not only is the Law, but everything that I have said is being done in the maritime sector for the past twenty years has been done in a well-organised way that has been from governments to governments of different thinking but that they have all made a certain step and that today we can say that the maritime system has almost fully led to some level that we can compare with many European countries even be much better than some and say that we have all agreed that we can be unique to ourselves but also part of a global meaning of a wider space, means not only the European Union but also the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95630	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95631	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, you said quite nicely that this Maritime Code is actually the heart of Croatian maritime legislation, which I liked very much, because it actually solves all public-law property and legal issues related to the maritime activity of shipping routes and seamen themselves. You also said that he has experienced several changes and additions since his adoption in 2004, he has actually experienced five, and this is now the sixth change, but it should be said in fact why these changes happened because there are also circumstances why this happened. So, circumstances that could not be affected, and in 2007 it was a social reform and I think about recognising the health and pension insurance to seamen, in 2008 defined the management of ships that sailed, nuclear ships in the Adriatic. 2011 was solved then and it was actually talking about sailors and their internship with increased and extended duration for sailors. The status of Croatian, Croatian ship registers and the maintenance of waterways, i.e. the maintenance of waterways, was arranged in 2013. Here it should be said that the amendments and additions to this law were also heard in these discussions that you were talking about today, in fact when you look at an analysis of the outcomes of the Bill Draft and all those people who were interested and participated in the debate and adoption of these amendments and amendments of the law, I am glad that, I said so in my replica, with certain people from the Faculty of Marines in Split, and also with sailors, some of them were rejected, and some were accepted. But in any case, this strengthens the competitiveness of Croatian shipping, strengthening the position of our seamen on both international and foreign markets. What you should say is that those administrative barriers are being reduced, you wrote in your introduction, so all that is related to the release from the court register no longer has to be sought, it actually goes with automation as well as translations that are not necessary and no longer have to be translated, etc. And it goes to full digitalisation in the maritime sector. So, it is not irrelevant to point out, I think it is a fellow Boris and said that now and the Croatian flag will, in fact, be attractive when entering foreign vessels, especially those big yachts, because this attractiveness, in fact, makes us more attractive by determining the tax on toning, but also by entering the European Union certain things that have changed in fact the services of the competitiveness of our ships. What I would like to touch here, I think, is that in my individual discussion, Sanader may have made it more explicit, but the fact is that the Adriatic Sea and what we were talking about nautical and nautical tourism is actually one recognizable and good product in Croatian tourism, especially on the outcast parts of the Adriatic, the island of Hvar, Vis, especially the City of Komiza and in those sailings, I don't know if I heard you well but over the year there are some 180 thousand boats, yachts located in the Adriatic. You said that a total of some 75 million tons of goods 23 if I remembered correctly are actually landing in our ports. Now this is the part that we have to take great care of, given that the Adriatic is a shallow sea, a closed sea, and I would like to say more about this, this regional cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with other countries because it is extremely, extremely important given these numbers that you have said regarding the transport of goods through the Adriatic. What I might still want to point out, which is what I said in the replica, so I'm particularly glad that I took part in it and it's about foreigners, about sailors sailing on foreign ships, and it's about those 183 days. So, respecting the fact that these sailors are sailing on foreign intermediaries in their employment, foreign companies, death, so here's the kidnapping now in the newer time we see. In fact, they are able to exempt from income tax from these 183 days and especially from what the maritime colleges have emphasized, and these are trainees who can work on foreign and domestic and foreign companies where they are actually able to train for 6 months with a payment or deduction of all taxes and contributions to salaries. So to conclude, here I am finally hoping to welcome these amendments and additions to the laws that I initially said would certainly strengthen public legal, property, legal relationship related to the sea and maritime navigation activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95632	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ms Maja Markovčić-Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95633	Thank you very much. First of all, let me thank you for your sincere congratulations for my appointment, and I would like to stress it once more. The success and confirmation of one of my professional ways, but it is undoubtedly a success and a confirmation that what we do in Croatian maritime affairs, we do well and recognized. And in addition to what I would particularly like to highlight this whole process that has lasted for a long time has shown what we can do when we are together and when we stand behind one we call it such a positive and good project. I really thank everyone who took part in this support of the country's president, prime minister, Minister Pejcinovic, State Secretary Metelko-Zgombic with the team and, of course, my colleagues and colleagues in whom I had great support. Now let's get back to our Naval Code. I thank you, of course, all of you for your support, all the clubs at the support and the recognized qualities of this law that will make a new step for the dynamics and quality of Croatian maritime development. A question has been raised regarding the tax per tonne of yachts and whether there are mechanisms to combat possible abuses. Tonnage tax is one form of subsidy, authorised subsidies because it allows so-called so-called ‘subsidisation’. ...so paying taxes regardless of income and then when you're there plus and you're in a minus pay a defined tax, but in amounts that are stimulating. That is why it is subject to a whole series of controls and mechanisms to control possible abuses. So, when it comes to yachts or any other facility that can carry out and other activities, separate bookkeeping should be conducted, which is then controlled in relation to activities subject to the tax per tonne, and the other activities are set out in the ordinary tax regime. As for the payment of contributions by the seamen for unemployment and other contributions, one of the good characteristics of our social reform of this maritime system is its flexibility. So it's designed to meet the needs of sailors who can be in different contractual relations regimes with their employers at any flag in the world. For example, you have sailors or most of the seamen are mostly employed in a contract that ends with the landing of sailors and is then renewed with a new boarding. However, you have the so-called. Permanent contracts. So you have sailors who are on board and have a contract with their companies and during their stay at home. We have allowed this system to enable seamen who want to pay for this additional contribution to unemployment and in this case have, of course, the rights which, based on such payments and entry into the additional system, belong to other Croatian citizens. But it is not mandatory because the sailors have just warned us that for a large number of them it would simply be an unnecessary additional imposition. As for the pollution of the sea and I personally believe me, we are all particularly sensitive to the protection of the Adriatic from all forms of pollution and we have been working on it quite systematically for many years. These amendments provide for one more quality approach to design and elements that should include a plan of intervention. Here we were talking about the need for coordination of different services that work and operate at sea. Not only do I support it, but I think it's the only way. We are a relatively small country and our administrative capacities must be coordinated. This is something that I will especially promote at MC tomorrow through the cooperation of different agencies at European level because, with joint planning of forces and resources, their common use can make our resilience even more effective in terms of sea pollution, but also in terms of security at all. And in this context we already have a pretty good coordination through one co-ordination mechanism for safety and with the Croatian Coast Guard and with the Maritime Police and with firefighters. However, I agree that, in this sense, joint training for exceptional pollution must be better. As far as available funds are concerned, they are never enough, always needed. In this context, we have launched at a professional level a debate on the possible establishment of a fund in which importers of oil and other dangerous and harmful substances transporting the sea would contribute, which would be an upgrade to the existing international fund of the same name and would serve to prevent pollution and, of course, to compensate for the damage that arises, which would exceed funding from the limitations of shipowners' responsibility and afterwards from the international fund. It is, of course, something that still needs to be conducted a very thorough expert discussion among all stakeholders, and then there will be an opportunity for you to discuss it here in the House of Commons. But that would be a good source of additional equipment and in terms of the purchase of larger water units, but also in terms of equipment that must be constantly renewed. The ESM because, of course, no state is strong enough to defend itself against major pollution, as was the case... and particularly sensitive in the closed, semi-closed ones such as the Adriatic, so this European solidarity and joint support to the countries through the EMS is very important. At this point in the Adriatic is located one vessel of Marisa..., and one pollution prevention set, the boat is in Trsa the means are in Ravena, I agree that when the ESM is called the next competition it will be nice to see that the candidates from the eastern side of the Adriatic were also competitive in this competition and get, say, one such stand by arrangement with this organization. It was also about the Maritative Studies, in the law we foresee that the maritative study is mandatory for investment in ports, and the Ministry will give consent to laying down all therefore, both pipelines and cables and everything that is laid down in the sea, but this system connects with the system of awarding concessions and concessions, which will be, respectively, a permit, which will be governed by the law on which it is here and which you have all expressed a desire to see it as soon as possible, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. So here we're going to give consent from the point of view of security, and then it's going to mean or be a signal parallel to giving appropriate concessions under that other regime. As regards liner transport which is subject to otherwise another law, what is very important here is to point out that there is an ongoing strategy that will not only define an optimal network of liner transport and encourage further investment in the port system, but also modernisation of the fleet in terms of its complete decarbonisation. We want to see on the Adriatic boats on non-fossil fuels connecting our islands and I believe that's the future we'll all be witnessing together. Here's your thanks again, and I hope I've answered your questions. And the law on ports and seaports is really high in completion, and I believe by the end of the year you'll have it on benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95634	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, you have now singled out the position of seamen in the context of the amendment of the Maritime Code. What I would like to point out is that in the debate with the interested public at this point, a package of laws on pension reform, five laws, which redefine the position of the Benefied Job Internship, somewhere around 38 or nine activities that include the benefits of a work internship, I would like to point out that, given that the Maritime Code is Lex specialis when it comes to the position of the seafarers that we have introduced in 2011 does not change the position of Croatian seamen, so this is very good news and not only in the context of pension reform but also in the framework of this Maritime Code where we leave this position for Croatian sailors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95636	Thank you very much. Then we will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95637	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code first reading P.Z.E. No. 421. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them, when determining the text of the final draft law, let us vote, please. I find that most of the 90 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95638	We move to the next point, which is - The final draft law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, second reading, P.Z.E. No 364 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law of the Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95639	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Here is the final proposal for a law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. In the first reading, the law was discussed on June 29th at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. I thank all those who participated in this debate for their understanding. The applicant's intensities are to simplify and speed up the procedures for the supply of weapons, but to leave obligations and to hire all those involved to do their part of the job. I mean, first of all, a citizen who gets guns, doctors who need to report a change in the health status of gun owners, as well as, of course, institutions that participate in approving requests for arms supply. The weapon remains a dangerous thing, and weapons often result in tragedies of intentional or unintentional nature. So I will again brief you on the number of registered weapons in the Republic of Croatia. On September 30th of this year, just under 267 thousand weapons were registered. Of which, the vast majority of about 182,000 pieces for hunting purposes, then about 80,000 for personal security purposes and some over 5,000 pieces of weapons for sports shooting. Weapons owners are mostly natural persons, almost 104 thousand natural persons and over 4,000 legal entities, so a total of just over 108 thousand weapons owners. Back in the last 10 years since the start of the national preventative campaign of the MUP "Small weapons, fewer tragedies" citizens have been constantly called for voluntary handovers of illegal weapons, so the citizens handed over or returned over 4 and a half thousand pieces of banned largely automatic firearms, over 316 thousand pieces of firearms, 4 million 800,000 pieces of ammunition and 4 thousand 700 tonnes of different explosives. Seven thousand 762 copies of firearms B category belonging to, for example, hunting weapons have been submitted voluntarily during this period. These are cases where since the death of the gun owner, his heirs want to return it or other reasons, such as health incompetence and so forth, so the allowed weapon B category returns. I will repeat the shortest reasons for proposing this law. Therefore, the Directive of the European Union, the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons is transposed into Croatian legislation. We arrange the procedures for the procurement and registration of weapons and the extension of the period of validity of the arms documents, as well as the way in which they deal with weapons and ammunition supplied to citizens for civil use or for the purpose of dealing with hunting, sports shooting or, as I said, for the sake of personal safety. We simplify and speed up the procedures carried out in connection with citizens' requests for authorisation for the supply of firearms. I stress, therefore, that operational checks will not be carried out by police officers which would determine the circumstances that indicate the possibility of weapons abuse because they have significantly extended the duration of this procedure, and most often no significant information has been collected. Since this is the final draft of the law, I'm going to make the shortest difference between the first and second readings. Proposals of the Legislative Committee have been adopted and certain provisions have been made nomotechnically. We believe that it is clearer, and this refers to the provisions of Articles 6, 7, 8, 76 and 84. Furthermore, as regards the proposal for a law after further consideration of certain misuses of air weapons, in particular in the final proposal of the law, all air weapons, regardless of their characteristics, are classified in category C or in the weapons which are to be declared to the competent police authority or station after purchase. In order to facilitate police criminal investigation of the criminal offences and offences committed with air weapons, it is necessary that any of the citizens possess such a weapon and therefore we believe that it is necessary to report air weapons to the competent authority. So, that weapon is from category D where the weapon that wasn't in the application regime is now classified in category C, so, the weapon with the obligation to apply. These are the basic amendments to the bill before you on 29 June this year. We believe that by taking effect and by these changes, the procedures will be faster, and the solutions that are given in the law, we believe that the safety of the gun owners of those who come into contact with him as family members and remain equally high-quality and that only persons who do not have a criminal past who are not prone to committing criminal acts and also those who are medically capable of holding or holding or carrying weapons will be able to carry them. Here's the shortest on the final proposal for a law on the acquisition of weapons and possession of weapons of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95640	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95641	Thank you very much. Mr Katic, in your presentation, we have heard that the state is trying to bring under control both additional norms and certain records of the situation that is related to the purchase and keeping of weapons which can be O.K. But in practice, it happens quite often that neither these records nor anything else is bearing fruit, because people who are inclined to commit crimes quite often and come too slowly to arms. I'm interested in what the police are doing here in that way that people don't have the possibility of that black market where people get guns and even what you said shouldn't be in any way. And on the other hand, today we have a rather insecure situation here in the City of Zagreb we have accounts of different clans, shooting on the road like the '90s, so I wonder if you can say from this position that you will prevent it from having a variety of clans in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, especially with long weapons as it is now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95642	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95643	Dear Mr. Representative, the prevention of criminal offences, especially the most serious crimes where life or the body of citizens is at stake, is a constant task of the police and the Ministry of the Interior, and this pays maximum attention. I've already been exposed to the bill when we're here, when I explained it to you that less than 2% of all crimes are committed with registered firearms. However, in addition to conducting good procedures to prevent weapons, it does not legally come into the hands of those who would abuse it, of course the police are using operational methods to prevent illegal illegal arms procurement. And it will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95644	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95645	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's just one small remark if it can be included in the law, which is to expand the circle of these C-categorys to associations, or organizations that use traditional firearms and actually use it on some occasion, since here I come from a region where very widespread loud shootings from cubes or guns are available and there are certain problems regarding the registration of this traditional firearm. So here's a proposal just to allow some longer period for registration than a year, they can still be called the guardians of a Croatian historical heritage. There are numerous associations that use loud shooting on the occasion of these solemn occasions throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95646	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95647	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of mine said what I was about to say, and that's just to expand the circle of authority in that category C for those organizations, associations, and individuals who produce traditional weapons and who, as such, need it during events, celebrations, etc. And also, for them, because of course of the problem that should have extended that deadline from, to, a year. Here's mine. And allow another moment when there are 70 or more years in question, I think there is some discrimination when it comes to those health checks, because I think it's far more difficult when weapons are more dangerous than if we compare them to motor vehicles that it's far more dangerous when used by young people or when young people come to it than when they come to a person of older age, people of 70 or more years. I think we should give in a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95648	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be spoken by a respected representative, Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95649	My colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates the categories of arms, procurement procedures, registration and collection of weapons of citizens, extension of the period of validity, the instrument of arms, the way in which weapons and ammunition are handled, the charge of ammunition for their own use, the procedure for the death of the owner, the procedures for the confiscation of weapons, the ammunition and the instrument of arms and the handling of weapons in the Republic of Croatia. After the first reading, or further examinations of certain air weapons abuses, the Proposer decided to place all air weapons in category C, regardless of its characteristics, in the arms that need to be notified to the competent police administration or to the Home Office. In fact, based on experience and practices so far, and from the point of view of the security of citizens, there is a significant number of crimes and offences related to air weapons, animal killings, people being wounded, etc. In order to facilitate police and criminal investigation of such criminal offences and offences, it is necessary to provide information on how many citizens possess such a weapon and, therefore, it is necessary to report air weapons to the competent authority. In this context, the final proposal for a law stipulates an obligation on citizens who possess air weapons which, under the provisions of the Arms Act, is classified in the D category that within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, the possession of those weapons is to be declared to the competent authority. According to the draft law, the age limit for the supply of arms is 21 years, with the exception of police officers of the Ministry of the Interior, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the judicial police, other state authorities and security guards who are authorised to hold and carry arms under special regulations, members of the Sports Shooting Association who are actively competing in shooting and persons with a hunting test capable of obtaining weapons from 18 years of age. Weapons can be obtained for hunting, sports shooting or for personal security and defence purposes. The draft law simplifies and speeds up the procedure to be implemented for citizens' requests for authorisation for the supply of firearms. For the purpose of the request, it will be checked, namely for the purpose of the application, firstly checked in the prescribed records, whether or not a person is convicted or subject to criminal or criminal proceedings for certain offences or offences which would be an obstacle to the possession of a weapon and will be made aware of the relevant beliefs, certificates or other relevant evidence to verify that he has passed a hunting test and is engaged in active hunting activities if the firearms are obtained for hunting purposes and will verify whether he is actively involved in sports shooting if he obtains firearms for sports shooting purposes. The person seeking to obtain weapons for personal safety will have to prove the justification for the reason for the supply of the weapon for the purpose specified by the Commission designated by the Head of Police or the Station. In the purchase of arms, a citizen will have to contribute to the belief of the medical ability to possess weapons, but after that, he will not have to go to a health check every 5 years as required by the provisions of the applicable Arms Act, but will have to carry out a medical examination when he is 70 years old, and then he will have to go to check every 5 years. Therefore, the armed list in which weapons are registered will be valid until the date on which the citizen is 70 years old and will then have to extend it every 5 years if he is evaluated in a medical examination as fit for the possession of the weapon and will continue to fulfil the other prescribed conditions necessary for the possession of the weapon. When applying for authorisation for the supply of weapons, citizens will have to provide information about their selected primary healthcare physician, and the police department or the station will inform the selected doctor about persons who have been issued the gun list. Based on this information, the selected primary healthcare physician will have to inform the police administration or become aware of changes in the health condition or course of treatment of the gun owner, which affects the health care ability to possess weapons. Also, police officers will not, in the living rooms of a person who purchases weapons, check whether a person has secured the conditions for safe installation and weapons storage, but will make a statement of this under material and criminal responsibility when applying for the supply of weapons and, if subsequently, determines the opposite, the appropriate procedure will be carried out and the weapons will be taken away. From this point on, it is clear that all proposals are well balanced or that concerns have been taken on the one hand about the rights and obligations of gun owners, and on the other hand, on the security of citizens. The law is good. It should be supported by what the HDZ Representatives Club will do. I'm taking the opportunity to appeal again to the Police Directorate just to make sure they find out where 153 pieces of firearms ended from a police warehouse in Varazdin that went missing in the period from 2013 to 2015. If I can't figure out who stole the weapon, they don't have to investigate or who gave the press information about it, especially they don't have to violate the constitutional rights of the citizens illegally and put them on special measures. making lists of their calls, which they have done since 2015. The weapons were held illegally by the citizens and handed over to the police in the 'Goodbye' action to be under secure supervision. Unfortunately, it turned out quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95650	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative, Rechimer Varda, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95651	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'm actually going to repeat one part of the debate on this bill in the first reading. First of all, I would like to point out that many solutions in the final bill proposal are actually from the first reading with which this club, and I personally fully agree, are therefore, in order to prevent the action of the law itself. I'll speak exclusively on behalf of the B-arms Club. We just heard that we have some hunting weapons somewhere around 182 thousand 80 grand for personal protection and about 5 grand for a sports competition. Now, what I want to talk about is the age limit that has been established and the final proposal of the law under obligation when a man is 70 years old and has the approval to hold or carry a weapon has to go to a mandatory health check every 5 years while he has such approval. I'm really wondering, since I'm old too, which is why you're underestimating and who set the age limit? Medicine? Police? Who set that up? Who set that age limit? The directive of the European Union you are referring to does not stand. The directive says that you need to establish functional relationship relationships and constantly monitor the health status of the holder of the authorisation for holding and carrying arms. In law, you have well written that part of the directive, with your obligation to report to a primary healthcare doctor that you have granted permission to carry a weapon to a specific natural person. So it's your responsibility. On the other hand, it is the obligation of a primary health care doctor who knows the health status of his patients best, to inform you of any change in health condition that has influence or may have an impact on the carrying, holding and carrying of weapons. In that case, you, as the competent authority, invite that carrier to choose to go to an extraordinary medical examination and you have done well. If an extraordinary medical examination finds that he is capable of health care, you pay the costs, therefore, the state. If it is found that it is not then he pays and loses the right to hold and carry arms. What's the age limit? I apologize for the tone I'm usually a Dalmatian, so I'm a little more temperamental, but really, this is underestimating, I'd say a sui generis discrimination of older people. Now I'm telling you, there are 14 people sitting in the House from 61 to 70, sitting for 71 years and more, including me, three. Well, at least I count on your votes when we put the amendments in the process. People, colleagues and colleagues, why don't we establish a age limit for politicians? For the MPs? For what? What's the good limit? What's with the underestimation? What's with the kind of discrimination? You have established the proposal in the first reading and final proposal of the law what the directive actually requires and what enables prevention. It's not that big a problem of carrying guns legally, the problem is illegal weapons of every kind. And despite all the actions you're doing, there's still one. You can see he's got it with long pipes. And if we're talking about category B and age limit, then this applies to these 182,000 hunting weapons. So, about the hunters. They're usually the older the more experienced they are, the more careful they are. Well, he's not just a hunter to kill, he's a hunter to protect nature, he's a breeder, he's a breeder, and so on. etc. I'm not a hunter, so I don't know what they're doing, but what are we making them do? And these are usually pensioners and we make them in the 70th year of life and every five years we make them a pension as much as they have an extra cost of 400, 500 kn. And we're filling our pockets with labor medicine. I have an opinion on these reviews. I was in one of the exams when I was 70. That's what the Secretary of State said to you, and you're aware that's the case. Why are we filling the legal standard of such medicine with pocketwork? Let's fill his pockets when a primary healthcare doctor reports that he has such a diagnosis that questions the right to hold and carry a B-category weapon. Besides, I'm surprised, I'm really surprised, I didn't pay any attention to that in the first reading debate, carrying guns for the physical safety of a natural person. What's that for? It's a duty to guard the bodyguard, the police guard the people, both me and you. After all, when you give him a weapon for some physical security, give him some time, he does not need a medical examination, while such a situation persists that a person feels threatened. Not that he's just going after 70 years and over for a checkup. Please, the police who have guns, the army that has guns, I guess, security guards who have guns, so I guess after the service's stopped, they return guns? I guess they're coming back, huh? We will make an amendment to the article on behalf of the Club. 15th, Art. Article 22 In 77th and the Club will consider whether or not they will vote in favour of the Final Bill. No longer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95652	We've got one breach of the Rules of Procedure. I see Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95653	Thank you very much. Mr. Varda has injured the Rules of Procedure. In 318, where he said certain things that do not stand, and I must warn you, Mr. Vice President, but also the Croatian public, that it is very unusual that a colleague who supports the government who is unable to ensure order and security in Zagreb will support this law. So that's one illogicality I have to warn here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95654	Excuse me, Mr. Maras, article 318, what's this article to tell you how to give you a warning? Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a warning. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its It doesn't exist. No, no, 318 doesn't exist. It doesn't exist, but there is a warning. Thank you very much. Now we have Mr. Tomislav Zhagar from the Independent List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95655	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to try to expose the views of the Bridge Club that will be restrained under this proposal. And why is that, let me say in a few short lines. So, compared to the first proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of arms, citizens are observed small or no shifts for the better and the opportunity to arrange this matter is missed in a quality way. By not arguing that the law brings certain improvements. In the final proposal for a law on the acquisition and registration of arms of citizens, there remains an unnecessary new category of W weapons, which is neither a very strict European Union directive nor a special number 853/2017 of 17. 05. In 2017, he still does not have any rational explanation for such service. Tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia for entertainment in Paienball, airsoft will still not mean that such a report should be in trouble when punished. This will be the subject of perhaps possible ridicule on their part, and still unnecessary complexity and administration of persons using airsoft imitations for entertainment and game in nature who in no way have the possibility of such airsoft reproductions taking life. The law generally misdefined the collection of weapons and went beyond the EU directive. It is surprising that following the remarks made in the first reading of the Ministry of Culture again the fact that national, historical and cultural treasures will be destroyed in the old desire of many natural persons who have spent enormous resources and efforts in collecting and recording. There is no justification given in the final proposal that this is resolved by the licenses for the collection of B and C weapons, as most of the A category of incapacitated weapons will remain outside the protection of cultural heritage owned by natural persons. That Croatian collectors, and thus technical historical and cultural heritage, are threatened, is the fact that in the EU the directive is allowed to issue firearms approvals, essential parts and ammunition in categories A where this is not contrary to public security or public order. This means that the EU has allowed natural collectors who are holders, supporters and conservationists of cultural and historical heritage to possess incapacitated weapons of A category and its parts. But this bill does not define it in a quality way by denying citizens that possibility and forcing them to destroy such a heritage, which is a cultured force. That's what article 6. 3. The Directive which states that Member States may grant collectors authorisation for the supply and possession of weapons, essential parts and ammunition classified under category A subject to strict safety conditions. The only reason why this law does not approach collectors with attention is because of the laziness of a state apparatus that would rather be allowed to destroy national treasures than have to have something else on the record. The final proposal failed to specify the old A-arms which became irrevocable and unusable. This had to be done for a reason because otherwise, a number of defenders' homes that have memories of war in the form of fired cannon shells, tails of mortar grenades, empty missiles will become virtually perpetrators of criminal acts. It is necessary to find a model in which it will allow citizens to retain weapons of A categories if it is undeniable that they are irrevocably unusable. Stigmatizing the defenders will continue with such a failure because they will also be prosecuted for ordinary stupidity. On the other hand, we welcome the adoption of the Bridge's proposal to amend Article 6(6), which is now amended in the final draft of the law. We also welcome the general intention to reduce administration in the handling of weapons of supply. However, a number of other professionally justified comments were not accepted or reasoned. It is the duty of the legislator to explain the rejected observations and proposals, which was not respected by the applicant in breach of the legislative procedure. Thus, no valid response to the proposal to delete Article 7 of point 12 in part of the text silencers intended for the weapons and parts of silencers will be granted no matter what the applicant explains about the integral silencers, and what the bridge did not specify in its proposal at all has already written and talked about silencers intended for the weapons and parts for silencers. Since the Ministry of the Interior does not seem to distinguish integral silencers from those intended for weapons, which is not surprising given the constant political staffing at the expense of the profession, we have to do a little... for the future. Integrated silencers are silencers that are inseparable parts of the weapon and form an integral and non-specific technical process inseparable part of the weapon pipe. As a rule, they're only used for military and police weapons. On the other hand, silencers are specially detached devices designed for weapons as a special device for silence fire. In developed EU countries such as Germany, Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Britain, etc. The silencers of the shooting are wanted in hunting because they don't disturb other animals, people and generally don't make them be in the environment. If we take the distance at which hunting is allowed from the inhabited area we will easily notice that at that distance from the ordinary hunting carbine, it is very disturbing to the environment and people. For them they are issued in developed countries from which Croatia obviously wants to learn nothing, neatly issue purchasing licences as well as for weapons. These countries have properly introduced a registration of the fire extinguisher and long-term practice has proved very positive. Therefore, that part of the text should have been thrown out and allowed to obtain a silencer. But since the Ministry of Health doesn't care about human health anyway, so neither hunters nor shooters are surprised there's no response from that ministry. According to a noise exposure survey of more than 140 decibels, hearing is immediately and irreversibly damaged. Unmuffled firearms, short and long pipes produce noise significantly greater than 140 decibels. For example, shooting a 308-caliber hunting rifle produces a noise of cca 165 decibels and other short and long firearms are within similar limits. Since the sound scale is logarithmic, this means that with every increase in noise volume of 10 decibels noise increases 10 times compared to the reference. This means that if we have a noise reference level of 130 decibels, the noise of 140 decibels will be 10 times larger. The noise of 150 decibels will be 100 times larger, and the noise of 160 decibels will be a thousand times larger. For example, normal conversation produces a noise of 60 decibels, a vacuum cleaner of 75 decibels, a diesel truck of 85 decibels. The siren on the first aid car is 115 decibels, the jet jet engine when it takes off 140 decibels. Shots fired from 357 magnum revolver 165 decibels. Launching rocket 180 decibels and on 194 decibels sound waves become shock waves. The silencer is especially useful to hunters when it is not practical to have ear protection, antiphones when hunting. In hunting, hunters do not wear antiphones because they listen to the environment, dogs and communicate with each other, thus increasing their security in hunting. The silencer is obviously not the choice of criminals because he doesn't actually muffle shooting like in movies. It cannot be used on revolvers, it prevents the normal operation of a large size semi-automatic pistol unless a special device that allows it is added. The system of specially designed plungers makes the weapon longer and harder to manipulate and hide. The silencers have a long history of use in Europe and the world. The concern and fear of having silencers in civilians is unfounded. It is particularly unfounded to treat the silencer or parts of the silencer with the A-category and to place it at the same level as automatic military weapons and explosives. No explanation has been given, nor a reference to the Bridge's proposal to amend Article 29 in such a way as to regulate that nobody, not only civilians and citizens, must bear arms when they are under the influence of drugs, drugs or other stunning means, or if there is more than 0.5 grams of alcohol in the blood per kilogram, or the corresponding amount of milligrams in a litre of exhaled air, or where it is in such a state that it is unable to understand the meaning of its actions or to rule by its own will. This is due to the fact that the existing proposal of the law of the official person, the employees of the MUP, the military, other services are placed in a privileged position and is allowed to carry without consequence the arms and use them, regardless of the specific regulations governing the tight or other responsibility of the soldiers, police officers or other persons in the event of the carrying of the arms under the influence of alcohol or illicit means, it is necessary to send a clear message to this law that the carrying and use of the weapons under the influence of drugs, drugs or other stunning means is not tolerated or that there is alcohol above half a kilogram of alcohol in the blood. This is how with a final proposal like this, we have a situation that we're going to have not only officers who give away official secrets, make counterfeit certificates and SMSs in their spare time, but also cops and soldiers who know they'll be able to handle guns under the influence of alcohol and drugs without criminal responsibility. This regulation leads to constitutional inequality because ordinary citizens fall under criminal responsibility, while officials, police officers and soldiers fall under criminal responsibility but only under strict responsibility that will depend on the arbitration of military and police officers. Finally, due to the illogical and destructive relationship towards Croatian military and historical cultural heritage, and because of ignoring recommendations from top health institutions and European hunting organisations, we cannot view hearing health according to this law as sufficient progress and the Mosta Club will therefore be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95656	Thank you, Mr. Sagar. Mrs Vesna Pusic is in front of the Glas and HSU Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate and colleagues and colleagues. In any form, the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons that regulates a whole series of things that I will look back on in the presentation on behalf of the Voice and HSU Club only makes sense assuming that it can be eradicated or at least minimised illegal weapons possession. So as long as there is a fairly extended illegal weapons possession, so long as this has been defined as just a segment of difficulty and problems that we face as a society in this one I have to say seems more important to me than I thought at first sight, since some of the debates we heard here sounded rather close to what American arms society or national would advocate... which I have to say to our pride Europe and Croatia in this context are precisely on the opposite side of these positions. That's good. You can tell by the number of deaths from a firearm. If you compare American data and European data, you can tell from school shootings. So, everything, every indicator you can remember shows that European regulation is also much better in this context, better, safer than the American one, and in this context should not only be kept, but perhaps sharpened in order to keep that tradition still. This proposal for a law, as it is said and in the very explanation, is a harmonisation with the European Directive of 2017, which has served or approved the conditions, wants to meet the conditions, and purchases and permits, and if you want to define the exact categorisation, and also the way in which weapons are destroyed so as not to be reused by different criminal and terrorist groups. So, it's a directive that was adopted at European level after terrorist attacks across Europe that were where people were mass-killed or in newsrooms remember... either at concerts, therefore, in different places or in public gatherings as simply arbitral violence or in revenge situations as it was in the case of news offices or individuals. So the whole point is to support and further define control after the experience of terrorist attacks. The law defines the procurement and registration procedures, the extension of the period of validity of the arms documents, the way in which the arms and ammunition are handled by the citizens for civil use. The question of weapons classification in 4 categories is arranged and there is a category A that actually defines weapons that are not available for civilian use and that citizens cannot buy under any circumstances. When you look at the law is otherwise taxingly listed in each category that the weapon belongs to in that category when you look at that category and our opinion is not to God that someone would get it and use it. Those categories that are for civilian use here category D as far as I was able to understand from what the law says is, say, at the level of those sprays with papros, some defenses and in that category D do not need to be registered specifically, nor ask permission to obtain such a thing. So de facto law applies and is interesting in categories B and C especially I would say B because there is de facto almost all firearms that people can use as civilians, obtain. The difference between those two categories is that in one case you have to get permission in advance to buy that weapon, and in the other you have to register that weapon backwards after you bought it. Weapons, weapons and ammunition management, the procedure for the death of the previous gun owner, the process of confiscation of weapons and ammunition, the introduction and amount of weapons and ammunition into and from the countries of the European Union and third countries, the way in which the weapons records are kept and the way in which this law is implemented. However, what you will see, as stated in the very explanation, is the opposite of what is the intensities of the directive that this law is harmonized with, or with which this law is harmonized and the situation, regulation in Croatia, the law simplifies and speeds up the procedure for the supply of arms. I'm asking on behalf of the Voice and HSU Club why? This Directive has been adopted in order to meet the conditions precisely because of the experience of mass terrorist murders that took place on the territory of the European Union. And this law, while taking over these two categories of the directive, which is the destruction of weapons in order to prevent them from coming back into the hands of criminals and others, this categorization A, B, C, D remains obviously not taken over from the directive or the rest of our additions. Because after the experience of terrorist attacks, why would the process of supplying firearms be simplified and accelerated? The law also states that one reason for issuing a license to supply and carry arms is personal security. However, there are no clear and unambiguous criteria on the basis of which a person is found to have the right because he wants to protect his personal safety he can carry a weapon. In other words, what does personal security mean? For personal security, there is, of course, the police, in the event of a military war. Which means someone for reasons of personal safety will be able to get permission or permission to carry a weapon. Does this mean that this person is explicitly given the right to fire that weapon if he considers that in any situation his or her personal safety is compromised? So one of the fundamental functions of the state is the monopoly on violence. The idea of the military, the police, the judiciary is that people don't shoot on the road, that people don't take justice into their own hands, that people don't take over these functions individually, as a group, but that by very clearly defined rules for the sake of the state. So that the state assumes that function on itself. If we leave it to one of these actually very vaguely defined reasons or categories such as personal security, it becomes arbitrarily. It's claimed to be a police station or a ministry to determine who needs it or doesn't need it. In other words, who feels justified, let's say personally threatened enough to protect himself with firearms. And what are we going to do in situations where such a person uses that firearm? So how will such a firearm be used, and who will be responsible in the event that such a person uses, based on his judgment, such firearms in a situation in which he has assessed or assessed that personal security has been questioned? As soon as these categories of arbitration are introduced, it becomes a rule. So let's say one arbitration verdict of either one that gives permission, any one who got that permit and then with firearms can walk around and it's not known that it's justified to let him walk with firearms around. So the Voice and HSU Club is really generous against this category in law and this whole idea of simplifying and speeding up procedures amongst other things, and of using firearms like this, giving licenses to obtain and carry firearms. The law also introduces newspapers that operational checks on the ground will no longer be carried out. In other words, when you talk to people who are neighbors, friends when you give licenses to get and carry firearms. Imagine a family bully. Femicid is an extended phenomenon in our society. Look at the statistics, and according to the paper, a person can fully meet all the criteria mentioned to get the possibility of carrying a firearm. However, no one who is, and we know how domestic violence is reported, so every 50 times. Therefore, a family bully who every neighbor knows is a domestic bully, but when you look at papers very often has no indication that this is a domestic bully, you should not theoretically get the possibility of having a firearm license. It also shuts down the security area for holding weapons. So these are the situations where kids find some kind of firearm somewhere and there's a tragedy. It is our opinion that this should not be lifted, that it should be checked in fact and not only later when as this law regulates when the tragedy occurs, then it will later go to check whether there was a space and a secure place where that firearm was held. I agree with my colleagues who used to say that it's not good to have an examination every five years after 70 years, a medical examination including mental health. It is our opinion that a medical examination should be maintained every five years for all categories. So, not when you cross 70th, but for all categories and all people who keep firearms at home and have it as civilians since alcoholism can occur at any time of life. A mental health disorder can occur at any time in your life. So we think that these checks every 5 years should be kept for all categories and not discriminated just for the elderly, but kept for all. The Voice Club and HSU won't support this bill. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95658	Thank you very much. I'm asking the speakers to stick to the time. We have one replica. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ivan. Oh, my God, I'm sorry. No replicas, but my colleague Pernar answered for the speech. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's. The Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic will now speak on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95659	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. Here is something on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club about the Law on the supply and carrying and holding of arms. It would be ideal for us if there were no weapons, especially if they were never used against a man or against another person. But unfortunately, we live with him and she's our everyday girl. Here we have heard that this law regulates the area, that in Croatia there are approximately 267 thousand weapons and I dare say that it is a good thing that there is such a large number in the system that there is a record and that it is known who are the weapons carriers or who owns it. But what also concerns us and what is not good, we would like to point out that, according to some analysts dealing with this area in Croatia, there are some 500 thousand pieces of illegal weapons, while others say that even one rifle or one pipe per capita in the Republic of Croatia is still an illegal weapon, that it is the rest of the tradition and that is the rest after the Homeland War because there are still many weapons, weapons left with private holders or owners, which is certainly not good. And when we say that 267 thousand pieces of weaponry are in the system, it should also be said that the largest part, and even statistics say over 90% of the crimes committed by firearms were committed with illegal weapons. So it's not about what's legal and what's being followed, it's about how to reduce the number of illegal weapons on the market. And here, we often see from the news reports that you can still find a weapon that is illegal and traded, so here in February of this year in Slavonski Brod, police caught one such person who had a car full of guns and reselling it. Such phenomena must be warned and made as few as possible. That's why on behalf of the HSS, we welcome that action that went by the government and the competent ministry to invite citizens to return the weapons without the danger of punishment and these actions have produced fruit. A lot of weapons, ammunition, other explosive substances have been returned and handed over to the state, the competent ministry. However, a large number of weapons are still present on the ground. Well, there was one suggestion and a conversation with fellow defenders in Slavonia. You know for a fact that we entered the Homeland War with little guns, that we were on our own, and that we were buying our own weapons with which we went to the front line of the battlefield. And still part of my colleagues doesn't want to return their weapons, even though they can't have them afraid that we might need them very soon, they're emotionally bound to it. But on the other hand, there are conversations at our meetings that perhaps the state should except that it allows for a return of weapons without compensation and without fear of any prosecution and in an additional way to stimulate the return of that weapon. Maybe we'd get more effects and results, that's thinking about us from defense organizations to think about it, especially the one we bought ourselves and allocated funds for the same. Of course I invite all people who have firearms at home, especially long pipes to return it to the competent ministry or other institutions because it is certainly not good that it is illegal in Croatia. I would like to commend this bill on behalf of the Croatian Hunting Union, on behalf of all hunters, because I am also in my discussions and in my first reading, and in the Hunting Law, saying that it is not good to administer too much to obtain, carry and hold arms when it comes to hunters and that it is not good that every 5 years we have to go for a health check. Because if we are already copying and introducing European directives into our national legislation, then we use such provisions as hunters in some European countries or in many European countries, that if it is already mandatory and the obligation of a family doctor is prescribed to report any change of health. And if a person, a health hunter who would have had an impact on the safety of his family and fellow hunters, then it is his duty to report it to the competent police authority to come for the weapon and that's the problem solved. This is how it is now recognized in the law and is well accepted by these observations of the Hunting Union and us hunters. But here remains this provision of a 70-year category that we see that a large number of our fellow fellow hunters in a certain way angered why people of 70 years are now discriminated against other hunters that after the 70s they have to go back every 5 years for a health check, especially when we know that there are a large number of pensioners who are also hunters with small pensions. And as long as there are so little pensions, until they follow the rise in living costs, I think that provision should be thrown out and we will support the amendment if it comes to it on this proposal, on this article of the law, because we believe that this provision is sufficient that the family doctor must launch an initiative to send the person who is sick to the review and that, after that, unless he is medically capable of taking away arms and there is no need for people then to further discriminate. Here is also on behalf of all sportsmen, especially shooting, it is good that an initiative has been adopted to allow young people to engage in shooting. We know that both at the Olympics and at European and world championships, we have achieved excellent results. Congratulations to all of them who thus promoted Croatian. But it should also be possible for children who want to deal with it, and 9 years is the limit that is in the European Union and it is good that this is accepted and included here in the law. I would also like to point out that there are still a large number of mine-explosive assets on the ground. It is good that most of Croatia is demining. I hope that soon there will be all the counties without mines in Croatia. However, there is still a large number of explosive devices on the ground, although I say it is demining. The proposal is for us from the HSS to continue with those educational workshops in primary and secondary schools where children would be warned about the danger of mines and explosive devices and not to touch and inform as such. Because here we are, and recently we've been reading that it was found in some kind of remote corner, some kind of mortar grenade. So there's still that and there's still a need to keep warning about it and God forbid none of our fellow citizens, and especially not children get hurt by explosive devices. What must be pointed out once more is that measures on the purchase of pyrotechnics, explosive devices need to be tightened. And here's the last case with a cannon strike at the stadium in Split, all the soup warns us to call our colleagues who were either Torcid fans, any Bad Blue Boys, anyone else not to use it in stadiums for their own safety, for the safety of the people who are there, especially the firemen who give themselves and sacrifice their lives to save other and other people's property, and then they get hit by a cannon attack. I don't think that's the style and style of cheerleading, that you can do much better to support your team with loud singing and cheerleading, but with a cannon punch. Well, here's an invitation not to. But immediately, the question of how is it possible to bring such substances into the stadium with all the video surveillance and examination? What did the police do here? And how can you not know who the responsible persons are? They even go into some kind of conversation, in the towers of the story that some people who are from such events are involved in it, which certainly is not our honor to find out who's responsible for it and never do it again. And that we have to restore citizens' trust in the state, in the police, to all institutions. It's impossible that we still don't even know today where the weapons that went missing from the police department were not found gold, gold bars that were estranged from the police administration. So how do we restore citizens' trust? And that's how they get here indirectly and stimulated to keep illegal weapons because God forbid we might need them again. And today we see it in Croatia the strongest weapon SMS and flow of information from the competent authorities, institutions in the implementation of certain procedures. And then in the end, we are surprised that some are convicted of the slightest mistake, and others are warned in time to go to London or to display false text messages as in their own reverse. It is certain that no one should act and use the institutions of the system for their private purposes whether they are property or political, but that we must all be equal before the law and enforce the law so that the citizens of Croatia feel secure and that there is no less abuse of weapons. The law is good for us, except in this part where people over 70 are discriminated against, so here we propose that this amendment be accepted and then we accept the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95660	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first I want to say that the SDP Club will support this law and I want to make it clear that this law is not an Americanisation of Croatia, nor is this any weapon of Croatian citizens, as some colleagues have said and as some media have written in recent days. So this is a law that is as one of the few laws in this assembly passed just as the laws should be passed. So first came the bill of law which was not agreed, which was bad, against which all the meanings, all the political options, both left and right sides of the assembly, interested public, etc. And after that debate that was in this house, the motionor pulled that bill and gave a whole new bill, and that's the one we have here today. And he went in two readings means, in a regular procedure. And when this law was passed, a broad public debate was conducted among citizens, and among all those interested in the adoption of this law, primarily in the Hunting Union, sports associations engaged in shooting, and that is what is good, and so the laws should be passed. The other thing about why this law is no Americanization or the weapons of Croatian society is that in this law those essential things about obtaining armed permits are not changed. Still people who have weapons in Croatia whether it's hunters, whether it's to athletes or those who use it for personal protection still have to pass the procedure of training to hold arms, still have to pass a medical examination at the beginning before getting an armed permit, still come all the strict things that, remain the strict things that have existed so far, but are changing some things that are more administrative. And that's what's good about these amendments to the law. And that's what we support, and that's why this reduction in the frequency of medical examinations, because there's no need to go every 5 years for a medical examination. That's what we said in our first reading and second reading. It's just a financial expense. It is a good solution to this that a general practice doctor monitors every person who has a gun license. I'm going to talk a little bit more about it in an individual discussion since I had some suggestions in my first reading, so I'm going to talk about it. So these are the removal of administrative barriers and savings from the users themselves. Another matter of dispensing the police who no longer has to go into these unnecessary checks when issuing the first gun license. Why the unnecessary? Because, look at this conversation with two neighbors and with friends, I don't know how much effect at all because it's realistic how credible he is and how much if you're with a neighbor in a fight whether he'll even tell the truth or say something wrong about you just to make mistakes, which happens later on in many examples. It took the police a lot of time and the effects weren't at all, and it's a good thing they don't have to do it now, because the police are being relieved of unnecessary work, and the police can then act where they think there's a need for it and that's what stays here. So the police won't stop controlling people, but according to their estimates, they'll come to unannounced controls or where they estimate it's necessary or upon the application of the same neighbors if they think someone's coming at all times. Therefore, it is not true that the law now deletes that provision and that the police will no longer do anything about it. The second thing, it should also be made clear that the main problem is illegal weapons, and illegal weapons in Croatia have about half a million pieces, while the legal problem is about 300 thousand pieces. And it should be said that this law regulates those legal weapons, not illegal, because the word itself says is out of all the legal frameworks. And this thesis to facilitate the acquisition of weapons, so there will be more crimes simply does not stand because these same statistics are being denied because over 95% of the crimes of some criminal activities were committed precisely by illegal weapons while only a few percent of the events were committed by those legal weapons. He won't come to the police and ask for permission for weapons then take the legal weapon and make a terrorist attack. It's not gonna happen so that that fear just doesn't stand. As a result, the activities carried out by the MUP have been good for years and should continue to be carried out, which is that illegal weapons can be returned to the police station without sanctions and will not be sanctioned for this. You need to work more on prevention, awarenessing citizens what it means and what it means to have a bad weapon and why it would be good to have it back. Also on the black market today, it is easier to obtain illegal weapons than legally, and it should also be said that this procedure that remains here, that illegal weapons will be purchased today, I don't know, some gun for 200, 300 euros on the black market, and while to get legally you have to pass either a hunting exam or training in the MUP, pay a medical examination and then pay that weapon at the same price legally as it is, so that basically this story will now be facilitated with these simplifications and that the mass weapons of Croatia are now being launched, simply once again I say, not true. Also, I think that this law and we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP think it's good, we'll support it, it's not perfect as any law, there's some small things that could be fixed and that might improve it, but in globally, it's good, and it'll probably access some of these changes when it's seen after a while, time's up, what should be fixed. Second thing, there's been a lot of words here about the personal security weapon. That it's being introduced now, it's not true. So, that category has existed for years and it's not a newspaper, nor is a new category of personal security weapons being introduced now. This has existed before, and I don't think even in these changes there are any harsh deviations in relation to how it was and boredom and that, the police administration estimates whether someone needs it or someone doesn't need it and of course that all our citizens should be protected by the police and the military and everyone else, however, there are some situations where unfortunately it's not possible. A small number of users of weapons in Croatia who have weapons of personal protection, I would like perhaps that the State Secretary in the final address tells us just how many such persons committed some crimes because it was mentioned here, I think that almost no one or a very small number. And why that's good or why there's a need for this, I'll tell you on one case. So the late Pukanić had a weapon for personal protection. For months, the man spoke to the public, in the media to threaten him, that his life was threatened, and that he could not get adequate protection. He was even mocked by certain media and by certain associations, and if you remember, there was one attack on him where he used that weapon he had for personal protection and even there was a shooting, he shot twice. And then she laughed at him and asked him where he got the weapon, who gave it to him, if he needed it, if he didn't need it, and unfortunately, after three weeks of that first attack, what happened happened. Now, the one who gave him the weapon, he gave it to him justifiable, but that's, say, a tragic story that shows that unfortunately the system can't always protect everyone. And he was, for example, a journalist who opened certain affairs, opened certain stories, and therefore his life was threatened. So his life was threatened by his work and business, and unfortunately the state couldn't give him adequate protection, and we all know how it ended. These are examples of people who today have weapons of personal protection. They don't run with these weapons around the city and wave like in the Wild West, they usually have it so nobody even knows they have it, they keep it under the law that it's necessary not to even be seen as having it and that weapon is not their guarantee that it will ultimately be protected. So you shouldn't scare the citizens about it or say it's now some new newspaper that's being introduced and not good. Mostly all in all, once again I'm going to say this is a good law, it's not ideal but I don't think there's even an ideal law and the SDP club will support this law in the final proposal precisely because of all of these good things that it brings and because of the way it's been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95662	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95663	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like first of all to say that unfortunately he doesn't kill guns, kill people. You can have a knife, you can cut tomatoes with it, and you can stab people. Is the knife dangerous or a person dangerous? Another thing I'd like to mention, you have a situation in Nice in France when a man killed 80 people with a truck. So the truck was used as a weapon. Then you have countless cases where other vehicles run into terrorists, etc. And even when terrorists use weapons, what's common is that it's always an illegal weapon, a weapon that means it's not obtained legally. I would like to say this time that protecting the security of citizens is very important, but the problem is when legal weapons are given to people who shouldn't have it. For example, there was a case when a police officer with an official gun killed a woman, for example. Although two weeks earlier, his weapon was to be taken from him, but he didn't. Says Mrs. Pusic that the state should have a monopoly on violence. I would disagree with that, I would say that the state should have a monopoly on violence only if it is justified, and for no reason using violence against its own citizens is wrong and this law in fact in some way facilitates the legal possession of weapons and I personally support that people who do not, I say, have a history of violent behavior, which is not a threat to society, that they are actually allowed to possess weapons easier. I want to point out this because we in Croatia have a lot of illegal weapons and what is actually to say in some way what the goal of every criminal is to get to illegal weapons, they can't legally get to it. And I'd like to point out that the print on the bullet, or the appearance of the shell casing, is something like a fingerprint, so each barrel of the gun gives the bullet to the other, so to speak. And you can tell by which gun was fired from. What we currently have in Croatia is on two sides. On the one hand, illegal weapons are not given adequate sanctions. How can you have, like, a Kalashnikov, shoot at school, and then the most normal thing to do is say, what lets you go, etc.? And on the other hand, someone who's not in crime is asked for a million checks. So what we need is on the one hand a stricter law, on the one hand a softer law against those who illegally own weapons, to them should be given more punishment. But on the other hand, those who don't create problems, who really use weapons for self-defense or self-defense, I think they should be allowed to do so. I would also like to say that I personally, over 2 years of political life, have received a lot of insults in my "high policy" and there have been a lot of threats. But I felt that all these threats were not real in the sense that someone would really hurt me, and for that reason I have no need to, say, own a weapon. However, if I had by any chance felt that these threats were real, I would have obtained them. What do I mean by that? That each case is different and the same threat received by two different people from two different people does not necessarily involve the same danger. And for that reason, I think that each case is determined separately, that it's actually positive. And I can only express from one side the satisfaction that so far Croatia has not been a country where there has been a lot of violent crime. So you can walk the streets of Zagreb without fear, say you will be stabbed with a knife, that someone will shoot at you etc. And for that reason, people don't even need to get guns at all. However, in the event that criminals possess weapons and use weapons and police do not protect citizens in this case, there is a real danger that because criminals are at large, because criminals possess weapons and use them, and the state is not taking adequate measures, that citizens will start arming themselves. So the state has to have a zero tolerance rate for illegal weapons on the one hand, but on the other hand, the state has to have, so to speak, and there has to be a legal state, there has to be a system that will move violence from the streets and when you, for example, live near a place where a lot of people, say, own illegal weapons that shoot with it, etc. Where there are various types of crime, so I don't know how comfortable it is to live there if you're not armed. The more often you call the police, the more the police don't actually act at all or treat late. Now, all in all, I call on the police to do their job more diligently, to call on the legislator to tighten the penalties for illegal weapons, but on the other hand, and I welcome this bill to those who wish to legally own weapons and who qualify for it, which means they do not have a history of violent conduct, that they have a legitimate reason for their own protection, I think they should be allowed to do so. I would also like to mention one thought when I was in Israel, or Palestine, I noticed one thing, which is that there are very many weapons on the street in Israel. It's you, you go to a store or to a train station, bus station, you'll see security guards there with guns, not with guns. You'll also see a lot of people in military uniforms who own weapons, but there's no violence there about weapons. The same thing is in Switzerland. If you go to Switzerland, every house has automatic weapons at home. They believe in this concept of armed people and there's actually no crime with weapons. But what is happening in more and more Western countries is something, which my colleague Lovrinovic pointed out to me, he said that when the balance of fear is then peace. So when... But what happened in the Western lands? People came to them who often carry knives with them, who often use them over innocent civilians, and these civilians carry no weapons, they have no weapons, the police are afraid at all to enter a neighborhood where there are a lot of violent crime, and you, as a result, have an escape of the population from these areas, their ghettoisation, etc. I believe that any civilian should have the right to use his own weapon if his life was at stake. And even someone else's weapon. Here, let me give you an example, it was a case of time when a man was kidnapped. That was in Croatia. He was in the back seat of the vehicle, next to him was the other person who had a gun pointed at him. And what did he do? They simply managed to take that person's gun and actually killed that person, or armed kidnapper, who threatened him. And they even brought him to court and tried him because he killed him. However, the court was fortunate to release him. But what am I saying? Weapon i.e. The loss of every life is a tragedy, but if a woman is attacked and, say, a criminal wants to rape her, in my opinion, she should have the right to self-defense because she has the right to protect her life, her body and her dignity. If we approach the fact that an individual has no right to self-defense, then the situation will happen to us like in Sweden where there is probably the most rape in the world, where the penalties for rapists are marginal and where in fact all these Istanbul Conventions and whatnot, all the stories of emancipation and feminism, in practice when you go out on the street and get raped, when your dignity is polluted, actually fall into the water. Well, that's all I'd like to say. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95664	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates, there's plenty of them. The first will be the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95665	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to point out two things at the beginning of my presentation. So, through today's debate, but also through the first reading, and then through that famous law that most of us here have started and kind of refused and returned to full completion, we have before us, the fact is, completely newer and fundamentally different law than the one that has been delivered to us here on the table for some two years now. Why am I talking about chasing concepts? So, all this time, there's been a mention of some illegal weaponry, some kind of crime with that kind of weapon. This law has a clear name. It's called the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons. And they are defined by what we all want in some way to point out and determine the procedure in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to own and obtain weapons for this reason or for that reason. So if we're talking about legal weapons, and this law is talking about him, so at this point we're talking about 182,000 pieces of hunting weapons. Therefore, weapons owned by our citizens are fully legal within organisations that are also legal and under the auspices of the Croatian Hunting Union, so an institution that has been going on for 200 years. We're also talking about five thousand pieces, slightly more than five thousand pieces of firearms. So again, I point out within the organization, within the Croatian Shooting Union and therefore, something that's been arranged long ago, and here we're not talking about something that happened on the street a few weeks ago when someone with a Kalashnikov shot, didn't shoot, wounded, didn't hurt. So, this is a legal weapon, a weapon that was obtained for the purpose of doing certain activities, whether money, whether or not shooting, whether sport and that weapon is legally reported, you know who the owner is, you know who the seller is, you know even the amount of ammunition that's being bought for such a weapon because it can't be ammunitionally bought, now someone's going to remember, so they're going to buy 100 pieces, to caricate, bullets of this or that caliber. So there's the procedure. What is the newspaper of this Law, and why am I all in favor of it? Because it's not how someone here said it made it easier to own weapons or supply weapons. It didn't get any easier, the procedures were practically the same. It's just that this unnecessary bureaucracy has been reduced, and we who have not one, two or five years, I've owned weapons for 36 years and moved in the society of people who own it and not only for holding but also for carrying weapons. And we know what these procedures are all about all those years. Not to say, from the 82nd time I got it by the end of the '90s, there was no need for any medical examination to be done. And the same amount of that weapon around that 200 thousand are the species of all those years in the Republic of Croatia. So here we're talking about these unnecessary medical examinations. And who was on them? Everyone who owns weapons every 5 years knows that this formality is the goal of this formality of those 550 or 450 where they competed to reduce and gain as many persons as possible to make a review of them in order to make some kind of profit. So this is in line with the European Directive in a way that is the support of this Law, in one of the most elegant but also most qualitative ways. Who knows the situation better than our chosen doctor? And that's prescribed by this law. That provision that prescribed such a single doctor in the first bill of law to have a tin... It was just funny in today's digitization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a good thing something like that got thrown out. And then we come to a colleague of Vargo and what we said in the previous reading. This 70 - year - old border bothers me in some way because I am moving around in the environment of people who have largely crossed not only 70 but 80 years, who are lucid, fully aware and aware, responsible, even in many cases and more active in organizations than younger members. I think in this part too, we should think about setting that definition. Last time in the previous debate I gave a whole series of remarks, some of them I see that through proposals and arranged and installed. I accept what is not and in some way supported the intensities of the Croatian Hunting Union related to the membership card for the year, I accept that argument. However, here in this section, I suggest that this provision be considered once again in Article 35 and related to the age-limit, therefore young people, because if you are looking at Article 35(7) where it is prescribed that, exceptionally from the provisions of the article of category B, airarms and weapons with... The categories of this law on shooting and training can be children over 9 years of age, and in the same category, a certain age when training for a member, for passing a 17.5-year-old hunting test there I would suggest that the proposal of the Croatian Hunting Union be accepted as a roof institution which does not in any way regulate its regulations and anything related to the hunting issue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, specific data relating to the legal possession of weapons and the part which is spent throughout the whole time in the public and in the public concerned by weapons. So this law, but also in all our discussions, is necessary, I personally consider it to be a distinction and toss the name from legally purchased weapons, with weapons that have its own serial number, a factory number, which has been examined barutal rehearsals, which is recorded in all institutions from the MUP and even to the Croatian or hunting alliance, until the chosen doctor who has such weapons. So it's all clear here. And the data itself and the statistics there are inexorable, legal weapons are not doing criminal acts. Legal weapons obtained for the purpose of performing certain activities in exceptional situations or unfortunate cases and in a very small percentage of what happens. Unlike being personally surprised by the official weaponry where that percentage is significant, it's much bigger than I think it should be. So that's that part of the story. And another one that should certainly be supported, that the police had to go around the neighborhood, ask about who was simply funny. He could've been a neighbor to an animal protection company, and if he knows he's a hunter and he's getting guns, so you're not gonna be hunting my sickle, so I'm gonna say you're a bad man so you don't get guns. That kind of thing, I think, is a good thing that they got around this part. The motion itself and just launch, the first purchase of the first weapon is perfectly fine. By regulation of medical examinations. It would be good to consider this 70-year-old rank part in advance, because I really think personally, and we look here at the composition of the Croatian Assembly where we have a lot of our representatives over 70 years of age. I don't see why he'd be in any worse category than someone 50 or 60. Here, in short, the law should be supported. I think that, or I already know, because from these circles I'm moving to find a pretty big approval of our citizens who owns their weapons legally. And this model of discussion and self-indulgence here's what it is and my colleague Sasha pointed out should be an example of how other laws concerning such problems are passed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95666	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95667	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Klaric, well, in most of your debate, I agree with you, this time for a wonderful miracle, but I've reported around this one of yours right from the beginning, about illegal weapons, and that's true. This law doesn't regulate illegal weapons because the word itself illegal means it's out of the law. And that's what I said in my debate. But I don't think it's a bad idea to discuss it, and this law when it comes to weapons that you absolutely need to take advantage of every opportunity to talk about that illegal weapon that is essentially the biggest problem of society. Because it's not a problem that this is a legal weapon that is under control and conditions and that is ultimately dealt with by people who know how to handle weapons, but this is exactly the illegal problem. And we need to use every situation and every opportunity to talk about it and say that 95% of the crimes were committed by illegal weapons, that there is almost 40% more in Croatia than this legal one, and that are all the problems that each of us has to talk about every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95668	The answer of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95669	Here, I thank you for the replica, here we agree that we agree and, in fact, what I wanted to say and now again, it is necessary to strictly distinguish between legal and institutions such as the Croatian Hunting Union, hunting societies and organizations from what is happening and what is from a criminal mile. Because in public, both of them, as long as the guns are mentioned, they're identical that's definitely not the case. So in any case we should talk about it but apart from the example of this law. He definitely lists only one thing, how legally to get to the weapon. And that should be welcomed, it should be channelled and reduced by the unnecessary red tape of the type that you have to give birth to no older than 6 months as if we were born every 6 months, so someone prescribed that the birth certificate should not be older than 6 months. Such things should definitely be thrown out especially in today's time of digitization when we all know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95670	The next replica is a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95671	Thank you very much, Mr. Klaric, in your debate it is recognised that you are basically a hunter and that you are a passionately shaken consumer of money and I can understand it from your position. The only thing that's incomprehensible to me is that I'm not inclined to, in this way, propagate the relief and contumation of the use of weapons but rather the opposite. So even though I'm not a hunter, and I can't understand the passion, like you said, shot, sickle, etc. I can understand that some people are celebrating it, and I've seen, I have some friends of mine. But in the debates, MPs in the Croatian Parliament, we should still, perhaps here, if you had said it in your debate, people would understand it because this is how it turns out to be as much of a promotion as possible by using weapons as possible, as much relief as possible. I don't think that's good, I'm just, like, the opposite, against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95672	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95673	Dear Maras, I thank you, you are not a hunter, so I will teach you, and you can see what is written on the portal of the Croatian Hunting Union and every hunting society in their statues and how they are registered. So, they're not registered for a gunshot wound, which is why I mentioned it, that's not the case. It's a good thing he's writing there, for breeding, for protecting and hunting savages. Among other things, hunting weapons are one small percentage of the tools used to grow, protect and hunt game. So if we're going to talk about it then we have there both automatic cranes and solar rabbits and remis and electric shepherds, and I don't know what all the responsibilities these hunters have and hunting societies, without talking about millions of amounts of damage that these hunters you're talking about are hunting, they have to pay compensation to farmers, so vehicles that run into savages. We talked about it once, too. So my whole debate comes down to it, that it's not exactly supposed to be this way, how you caricate the hunting issue, or the question of what kind of weapon it is, because then we're not going to pass a quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95674	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95675	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Klaric, you spoke from a hunter's perspective, I'm not a hunter, and I also own a weapon, but I can say something from my practice. In fact, my father's a lot of years old, and you were saying that we should have some age limit maybe increased. He's having trouble getting his weapon back, you can't believe it. I mean, it's such a procedure that it's no longer today, nor easy to return the weapon. Of course, there's some procedure, and I'd advocate it being a simpler procedure, even if more than that, we stimulate people, who have some age, to return weapons, to help them sell, to give them some kind of reward. The less weapons, the better. Unlike you, I agree very much with you, my colleague Klaric, unlike you, I disagree with the fact that it is necessary to facilitate the acquisition of weapons, but, in fact, it should be difficult to obtain weapons. I really think it should be difficult to get weapons, because we know what is happening in some countries, and I think Croatia should be, having another direction. Here, that's my opinion, you're like a hunter, you have a second opinion, but everyone has a right to their own opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95676	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95677	I wasn't talking, maybe you misunderstood me, about making it easier to get guns. So, this law doesn't make it easier to get weapons, but it does, so I said, and I believe you understood, it reduces unnecessary bureaucracy and paperwork, or procedures, that were simply ridiculous. Isn't it funny to you that I don't know, a police officer, is visiting your neighborhood asking what your dad's like? And here's the secretary of state, let's just get the information, how much, and it's about tens, thousands of weapons, it's by the MUPs, deposited exactly like that, which are those older hunters or people who didn't want to keep their guns. They had, I think it's becoming a problem now, where with these weapons, because it's huge amounts of long pipes, which are stored somewhere, by some kind of MUP, in the entire Republic of Croatia. It was not before, and at that time there were no medical examinations, nor these regulations, or '80s. until about 2000. It was only then that they began to introduce such regulations, which in some ways broke a stalking system. It's a tradition that lasts for centuries in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95678	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95679	I thank you, Vice President. A colleague Klaric, here, given that young people from 18 years of age are both going to the police and to the military, engaged in hunting, engaged in and sports, in which they use weapons, I have indeed some other colleagues headed in this direction, I find it unnecessary to use young people in the context of the debate on the rights of perhaps the elderly population who, with this law, is considered limited, given the age of 70. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95680	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95681	I don't know why you understood it that way, if you heard that proposal I made here, it was just about those young people. So, by law, we've made it possible that after nine years of life under the coaching of official shootings, I can use weapons, practice and eventually educate myself, about shooting, children after 9 years of age, and my proposal goes in the direction, that this limitation by 17.5 is reduced to entering these frameworks of European, say, German norms, of some 16, so let's say 17 years because it's unnecessary to think about those half-years. So here we talk about both young people and older people, and most of all we talk about what we are talking about all the time and there is a great deal of emphasis on legal weapons. So, legal weapons, like your car, that you bought, legally registered it, legally drive it, don't give God with every car, a vehicle can happen. But it's legal, it's not stolen, it's not bought black and it's fulfilled all the legal frameworks that are prescribed for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95682	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95683	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot of arguments and arguments today, some of them can't agree with some, and here I don't agree with my colleague Pernar, so if the state doesn't start responding, that people will start arming and thus take the potential thing into their own hands, which I think is a bad message. I'm just the opposite, I'm about to stimulate people not to use weapons, to ensure that the state assures them that they live in a safe city, a state, that they have elementary because the state exists for security, that there's no state, that people don't feel safe, then there would be this element, that ruled in the wild west 200 years ago and over and on our premises too. What is the fact in the Republic of Croatia that, given the things we've been through for the past 20 years and over, it means 30 years in these areas, unfortunately, the area of the Balkans and these countries around us, with which we have a lot of soft borders, is the source of non-dry illegal weapons and it supplies, we see every bit through the EU media and the EU area, some countries in the EU. So it's obvious that we have a problem with illegal weapons very prominently and now it's quite simple to buy, so it turns out, when you see certain things happen, how people have a home of the Kalashnikovs, etc. Obviously, it's easy to come to that, for several hundred euros or thousands of kunas, a few thousand you can clearly arm yourself illegally and that's the biggest problem for me, which at the moment is the government of the Republic of Croatia, as far as guns are concerned. That's why I'd go after it, if these promotional actions weren't just in terms of what you'd say, give it to anyone. So, I'd try to stimulate people on that side, and I'd try to get them to tip off, if they knew someone had illegal weapons, or they could have illegal weapons, because that way they would allow the police to do their job effectively and to move those weapons off the market. Because it is very questionable how many people would report to their neighbor today, counterpart Klaric said that someone out of envy could say about the hunter, that they would shoot off the deer and then say that he was not the one who should have the weapon. But it's very questionable, as much as he would say today, that he knows about his neighbors or someone from the neighborhood, that he has the weapons he's acquired, who knows how, in the past 20 or more years, he's reported it to the police and said he has. So that's how you create consciousness in people, possibly education, prevention, which I think the police are doing pretty badly. What my colleague Prelec said about the weight, that basically when you don't want it anymore, even legally if you own it, you can't bring it back, the weapon is also something you should think about. So here we are talking, as a colleague Klaric, about how easier it is to get to weapons and how less burden on people with weapons, and I ask, what should we do, in this way, as well as a colleague, Prelec, with a father, wants to return, then he has to look for a trader, fill out certain patterns and this and that and can't be solved in that way and the legal weapons he owns. So let's think about how to move that weapon, how to stimulate people to report illegal weapons, and sometimes even in a situation where they don't, how to encourage them to do it. How do we get people, who return illegal weapons, not just pat on the shoulder and say, we're not gonna punish you, but we're gonna include them, and from our own experience, we're gonna see how to get that weapon off the streets of our cities and places. And the promotion, let's say, I disagree with it, that this is how it's disbursed, I'd say, the normity of a certain law, especially when it comes to the Law of Weapons, because it's not the same as dissolving entrepreneurs. So, honestly, I'd like the state to have some insight into who the weapon has, how it's used, because it's often done the most severe crimes with legal weapons. So the less weapons, in my opinion, the better. On the other hand, the police should do prevention, which would not lead to such accounts, as we have had in the last weeks in the City of Zagreb, for the first time, after not knowing how many 10 years and more of these are used, long pipes, i.e. Kalashnikov, who is illegal, means no one can have him, where he shoots the neighborhood, with school, a few hundred meters or 100 meters from school, where people don't feel safe. That's what, for example, at this point, I most resent losing that thread and feeling of security, with one part of our fellow citizens, and we have to react to it as hard and as fast as possible. So we need to see how people get their sense of security back. We must, of course, make sure that it does not grow into any other hysteria, which is also not good for our society, but the fact that some things are happening, and that we are weak or almost in no way responding. And we're not going to solve this problem with two or three cameras, not a school, or a tour and an event by the school. We need to see how the police in cooperation with the local community, perhaps with the church and with the local committee, with the people who live there, can make more serious prevention and take more serious warnings that citizens give in certain situations, because the problem of this kind of crime must be solved where it occurs, among the people who live there, because they believe me, they know best where there are potential risks to certain things. And here, here, I appeal to the police. One more thing, which is very important, is the feeling of citizens' safety when the police are present in the neighborhood and the ratio that now feels when we look at the police, that it's a lot more people who do, as it has already become popular in Croatia, office jobs, than even those among citizens, I would like to, for example, in the City of Zagreb, where I live, I personally know my neighborhood policeman, you know what person she is, she visits you, you can contact her, etc. That way, in cooperation with the police, it is very likely to prevent a lot of crimes. So I'm not going to charge any expenses now or possibly do something that would indominate someone. But I'm generally a priority against making it easier to own weapons because I think it's in certain situations. Okay, as far as hunters are concerned, I can even understand it, although here's the truth: I've never had this passion to go hunting and wait for a wild pig or a bear to run into it. It's not as cheap as I hear it, but here are experienced hunters Djakic and Mr. Klaric, so they could tell us something about it. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm willing to try to standardize it and that by preventing it, we have as little as possible in terms of use. And as for hunting societies and what's being said about the general benefit for society and from the eventual extermination of certain savages doing damage ok. Normally it can be something that's useful. But going after it to make it easier than it is today, I think it sends a generally wrong message to society. So if today in the debate we're propagating that as much as possible to make it easier to norm as possible then we're also sending a message that there can be certain weapons in one way or another that it's socially acceptable behavior not by thinking here I'm just saying hunting, but also other types of weapons. That's why I'll be restrained by this law just because I don't want that message sent. Because here we are reducing the administrative barriers that will promote that one most people use weapons. On the contrary, I want, given the history that we have been through and half a million illegal pieces of weapons that we send to Croatia by car to send another message, which is to stimulate people to return arms, to use it as little as possible, and to somehow have greater security for citizens in our country. Because I wish people felt safe to that extent when it comes to personal weapons that they don't even need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95684	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected colleague, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95685	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, it seems to me that in your debate you've left quite a bit of what's the subject of this law. You were talking about your impression of street accounts and how you're against it. Well, against that, everyone is reasonable in this country. But the purchase of illegal weapons is not the subject of this law, but the exact opposite of this law is how legally to own weapons and how, in fact, through certain administrative procedures, to reach weapons. Likewise, those who illegally possess weapons have consciously decided to be outside this side of the law, so it is difficult to expect that they would, by any action carried out by the institutions, want that weapon to be declared or returned. There's been a war and there's been a time when those men who had guns like war trophies had that weapon back in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95686	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95687	Thank you very much. I don't know what a war trophy means. Here's the truth, you just said war trophy. So I believe that the vast majority of our people when it was at war did not go with the goal of bringing in some kind of war trophy, but to defend their country. So on that side, I don't even know why anyone would be motivated to collect an entire arsenal of guns at home as a particular war trophy. So that's exactly the kind of message we send people the wrong message. So in my opinion, the message should be maybe the law needs to be regulated that someone with an illegal weapon to immediately prevent a certain punishment that cannot be avoided. It can't be conditional. So we have to send a message to society something that is completely unacceptable. Kalashnikov's having a home is unacceptable behavior. If you have it, I'm sorry there's no parole. So we have to do something like that, and not now to justify it... to the war trophies as if it were a good thing that you brought home from war and hung from home by a stuffed bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95688	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95689	Thank you, Your Honor. A fellow Maras here I'd say that hunters, we've talked a lot about hunters, hunters aren't the problem. Hunters must be good people. Whether they're young or old, they're sentimentalally tied to weapons and that's definitely not the problem. I definitely don't think it's a problem for everyone else who has a legal weapon because they have it legally, so I don't know why. However, the biggest problem, and perhaps there is little we have talked about when it is found that someone illegally has a weapon. What happens when you find something like that? And we have a lot of, a lot of cases, especially when it's been determined that someone has committed any crime with weapons that are not legal or disturbing public order and peace. I'm here to lay down such laws that all those who illegally have guns and, by chance, for joy, shoot at a wedding in the air so they know what's waiting for them. There's a law here for illegal weapons possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95690	I thank my esteemed colleague, Preleco. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95691	I couldn't agree more with you. Now we've had the World Cup in football and you've said the wedding yourself. I'm asking you how many people in a situation like this would report someone shooting, and there's a difference in sound between a personal weapon of a short pipe and a kalashnikov? Who would report it, I think there's a need to develop consciousness. Such a situation when such a sound of weapons is heard or you can see that it is something that is illegal, people must be immediately aware that it must be reported. On the third hand, you need to develop consciousness, not yet smile on it and say it's like OK, just people getting a little cheery. So I'd like to try to develop the world of citizens a little bit more here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95692	I thank my colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95693	Comrade Maras, you said you wouldn't support this bill. I'm a little confused because your representative in front of the club said that the SDP Club would support this law in a keen way and that it was acceptable for all of you. As far as hunting and what you're talking about, I'm going to remind you that you've been a minister of entrepreneurship, a hunting economy, millions of kunas paid by hunting societies, alliances and counties for hunting, hunting insurance, hunting investments and bonuses. But among other things, all those who do trade, arms sales, and everything you have a hunting and fishing fair will now be in Varazdin every year in the tenth month, even this year. So, as far as returning weapons is concerned, what Mr. Prelec said, that's the problem. The problem is that it's overbooked and in the stations of the MUP, but there's another possibility, which doesn't matter that it's a big value, and as long as you want to keep such a weapon, you have to destroy it. So the economy should think about it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95694	Thank you, colleague Klaric. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95695	Thank you very much. Here's one suggestion that we could make is that at the expense of the state it's all done. So that's why we wouldn't go with a proposal like that. And as for this, I will not vote as my colleague Djuic said, so there is a certain freedom, you know it best from the HDZ at the Istanbul Convention. So if a man is something, here I know that some of you have been very hard to press the Z key, and some of you have pressed the button against or abstention. Well, don't be surprised, it's kind of hard for me to promote the relief of weapons supply like you find it difficult to accept your own ideology, for example. I don't know how you voted I can't remember exactly now, but I think you were one of those who were against me. If I'm right by memory. So on the other hand, don't be surprised, that's what's happening, so it's not just the SDP's club's exclusiveness now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95696	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Maras therefore, a hunting society or... from this debate this is for me and what an important activity it is. Speaking of hunting fairs, there are hunting and fishing fairs and there is an organization in Osijek every fourth month. But what I wanted to tell you was that what you touched well, and that's security. I think that every citizen of ours, regardless of nationality, religion, sexual orientation, gender or gender should be felt safe in Croatia, and this would solve most of the problems around weapons. I wouldn't agree if the weapons left behind from the Homeland War weren't a problem. It still is, and it's still there and unfortunately not all of it back. Therefore, it is also illegal weapons, weapons in illegal possessions, often automatic and illicit weapons. Therefore, our police should also consider actions that could legally return that weapon without consequences for the owners, with the aim of not being on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95698	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95699	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, that's the biggest problem, if he says the data here, I think that's what my colleagues from the police said, or the Ministry of the Interior, that half a million weapons are still on the road, not on the road, but on the houses, or who knows where, that's probably the biggest problem. If he's got twice as many guns as legal, that's probably the biggest problem. I would not ignore the situation and say only 2% of the crimes are committed, because usually when using firearms or illegal weapons, these are crimes that are the most severe crimes. So it's not the same crime to insult or make a mess at a game where no weapon or weapon is used to rob or God doesn't hurt anyone. So on that side, 2% looks like this in the total mass a little bit, but basically the most serious crimes are done that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95700	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95701	So when it comes to weapons and Croatia, then I think you should even have a special law that would treat our specific situation. That weapon was left behind from the Homeland War in the hands of the defenders. When you try to take that weapon away from them, then they get up to defend themselves, so who's going to take their weapons when they've defended the country with these weapons. And we can, every once in a while, read how an ex-defense attorney or used that weapon to take his own life or to attack another. It's absolutely unacceptable for someone diagnosed with PTSD to have a weapon. What it could lead to is a case of Corrade, a massacre he made. Why because? Because the police weren't jealous enough before they took his weapon. In the United States, the problem has been solved with four Rs, development, disarmament, rehabilitation, rehabilitation. We only had the first R.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95702	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95703	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we're still at our place, and that's what we could hear, as my colleague Jelkovac said, a war trophy. That's what people see as something not lagging behind but the rest of the war and something de facto their right. So we have to say very clearly and be very careful with those words. The war trophy, or prize, is a medal. It stays on your chest, and the weapon of any of that left over from the war, it's not a war trophy. It's something that has to come back and that threatens the safety of both your family and your family around you, etc. No matter in which way or how you were regulated or whether you had problems with others or not. So, people who don't have other problems, and they have guns, they're doing the security problem for everyone. So, on that side, I'm asking you to avoid the war trophy because the war trophy is just a medal or an act you brought from the war and it shows you what your contribution was to that war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95704	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95705	After all these discussions, especially colleagues on the left I understand why we were disarmed in the '90s and why we had to buy pumps by a thousand and a half marks and a bullet by two and a half marks. But that's their style. Disarm a Croat and arm someone else. Not destroy, but arm. But I absolutely support this law. He would especially support it if it was easier for every Croat, especially those in the border areas of Croatia with the border with the former enemy Serbia, so that every healthy Croat has a psychic and physical weapon under his control and in his hand because who knows what the night and the future brings. From history known to us at least in these nearer ones, we do not know because many have ended it and adapted it to themselves, but the fact that after the end of the Homeland War was one action "Good-bye to weapons" so those who call the associations forgot that these same associations in their rooms, with the presence of police officers, organized the handover of leftover weapons from the Homeland War, and so did my association. And since I have experience with weapons, since last year I was disarmed by unconfirmed circumstances that I allegedly called for riots that have never been proven and will not be as much as I think of witnesses. But the fact is that we all forget that there is a new weapon that is now being produced, and there is an old one that has been left behind for some time and is not handed over to the Croatian police in such a way as the Croatian war veteran did through the activities of his associations. The fact is that Croatia, as you said about half a million pieces of firearms, is present with us, and I will explain to you where this weapon comes from. In addition to those weapons you handed back, which returned to the military trucks and boats in Croatia, weapons came in this way with the help of the Serbian Government Minister Branet Crnčević in Borovo Selo, during the 1990s, a huge amount of weapons being brought to buildings in the centre of the local community, a firehouse, a theater as well as private houses. The house of Stevan Radigovic called Stevo Podrigović Rčak. This is from the police report of an inspector investigating crimes because imagine you, all the crimes were committed with some kind of weapon, and now 13 of us are going to have a protest in Vukovar. We'll have him, who? The victims and defenders of the Homeland War only for one reason because we know we have dead, since we know we have many who have been wounded. We've got the missing ones. We know everything. We've got suspects. But where did all those weapons that they committed these crimes go? Perhaps in these facilities that I have now listed to you from this police inspector's report? Maybe he's here? Has anyone disarmed the abolized for war crimes? Has anyone asked them, hey, so you were suspected of armed rebellion, with what means did you commit this armed rebellion? How did you use these funds illegally at the time your possible legal purpose? Where are the funds now? Did the Croatian police try on the door to Podrigovic and the others and ask: "There was a gun warehouse in your house in 91st year, so please tell your colleague where the weapon is."? Where is he? I will read just one newspaper article, and it goes like this: “1. In May 2002, he fainted and shot him in the foot of Borovo village while in front of the Armani restaurant on Wednesday, about 20.30 hours Željko Čorak 37 years from Borov village drank a drink hardly injured by an unknown man. First, he insulted him, then hit him with a gun to his head several times, causing Chorak to lose consciousness. The stranger then grabbed Čorka's legs and dragged him into a restaurant where he fired a gun at his right knee and drifted away in an unknown direction." In 2002, who was the minister? Whose authority? Just one article, one single article by Miroslav Flege, a journalist from Vinkovac. Where are all the other police reports? Where's the guy who shot him in the leg? Who armed him? How far did the investigation go? There's no such thing. You won't find it. Every year, but every year since peaceful reintegration, we've heard from a distance, and now we're getting closer. Every Christmas, every New Orthodox year, there's a raffali right at midnight, a burst of machine guns, a machine gun called "garon" as popularly called, a kalashnikova, shoot a little bigger firecrackers, bombs. Where are the police reports for all these events and reports? Where are they? I doubt you'll find them on the pages... of the media and those who are keeping an eye on whether a Croatian defender may have committed suicide with a war trophy. But since I'm left with the weak, I'm gonna ask for who knows which times I'm here for some events from the present. He says: “As part of the planned criminal investigation, as explained by the head of the Police Administration of the Varazdinska Darko Jurčec police officers, the personal vehicle Renault Laguna, used by the arrested men, found 20 guns, 16 automatic guns, 9 automatic rifles, then more rounds of ammunition, almost 3 kg of explosives, and 30 hand grenades, etc. laser cycles, silencers ideal for terrorists in any part of Croatia or Europe." So this weapon goes, travels. And when did the event happen specifically? So, on 16 April 2015 we are still talking about illegal weapons, members of the Croatian People's Party are versatile pro-European oriented, so we have opportunities to read in the media to deal with arms smuggling across Europe. However, no one wondered where that weapon came from in January this year. According to incorrect information, part of the weapon originates from police warehouses. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Rank Ostojić, for his reply, on 16 April 2015. And Mr. Minister answers – In connection with Mr. Strick's inquiry, Vice-President of the Varazdin County County County County - I will skip, - as the criminal research is still under way, we are unable to give further clarifications, and after the end of the same and the determination of all relevant facts and circumstances of the event, the results will be reported in due time. Minister Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95706	Dear colleague Culey, I'd like you to stick to the subject of the New Law proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95707	The topic is illegal and legal weapons in Croatia in circulation and I said everything about legal, and now it's illegal. And final word, I have more. Final word, attorney's question from today. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers in the paper of the Varazdin news since 18 September 2018. years on page 16 and 17 under the heading – Weapons from the police warehouse in the vehicle of a missing man from the area of Varazdin. The article discusses the disappearance of weapons from the Varazdin police warehouse, which was accidentally discovered in January 2015, the text states that it is a large amount of weapons, expressing my concern and asking the question, did everything that has been done to get that weapon back under police supervision? Please report to me. So much for guns. From 2015 to today, Mr. President of the Committee of Internal and National Security, I hope that in his report at the end of the year he will give light to this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95708	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Culelj for this debate. We have several replicas, but before the replica, we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although it may seem in vain to warn a colleague of Culei, I must warn you, my colleague Culey has offended his ankle again. In 238, he broke and insulted MPs by suggesting that they disarmed someone in the '90s, it's a cancer in his debate. And I'd like you to warn him because it's really like I'd say it's below every level, and even from him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95710	Thank you, colleague Maras. I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt, he didn't call anyone individually, he was talking about politics in principle from that time on. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. We're moving on. We have one replica. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Culey, you've just now done what you don't need to do with your debate. So, first you insulted your colleagues in the Croatian Parliament by leaving the idea of the one we all represented in the '90s, which is to fight for our country. You've done your best to your colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, among which many of them are defenders, high officers of the Croatian Army, among them here are Fred Matic and Ranko Ostojić, whom you called just before. So that you also insult your colleagues in the Homeland War, but by your example, you mention when you had to return your weapons because you broke the law, or you couldn't extend your right to have guns at home, you called in public all those who also did not have legal weapons at home to protect it better and to hide it. So, don't act like that, you're an advocate, try to act affirmatively in order to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95712	Thank you, colleague Maras. The answer to the line, dear colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95713	Comrade Maras, I know you can't remember that far because you were young. With honorable exceptions that have justified their wartimes to be called – Croatian war defenders, I must tell you as far as my weapons are concerned, I have only warned my friends not to fall into the traps and traps of certain systems that have targeted actions in Vukovar and throughout Croatia to impose topics that are not needed, and especially not in Vukovar from Cyrillic and beyond. Which is like a cat in a bag planted on us, the Croatian defenders for daily-political accounts here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95714	I thank my colleague Cule. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95715	Your thesis that you should allow the armed of Croats and only Croats is not only dangerous she is directly fascist. That's why you're calling for a weapon to be given to whoever attacked the Pod the other day on Dolco. Because he shouldn't have dropped the tomatoes, he should have dropped the bomb. That's what you're causing. Besides, it's inconclusive, how do we know? Well, we can't do a blood test to determine who the Croat is. What, maybe by name? Then we'll give Stef or Stephen a weapon, and we won't give Steve what we can. And I ask you to explain to me what the media means, in response to the reply, what you are saying. So, it's completely unknown to me, I really don't understand what it means – May Street Media?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95716	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Come in, mate Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95717	I'd like you to know what Biga said. I'd like to explain it to you. When I said that weapons should be left to Croatian defenders who are psychologically capable of him and everyone in the border area of the former Yugoslavia of Serbia, I said that for reasons of being safer. And as for fellow Milorad Popovec and the attack on him, I'm truly sorry, you won't believe it. I'm truly sorry. I'm not like a "dida biga" fellow. I am an ordinary Croatian defender who has exposed his back to you and his life so that you can sit there like many of the people you call here every day. Think about it, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95718	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. Sir, I'd like to ask you not to come in, do not disturb your colleague while he responds. It's his right to answer what he wants, and what he doesn't want doesn't have to. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95719	Thank you very much. Comrade Culey, the police have carried out a number of activities in the return of mine-explosive assets and weapons both in my field, I believe and in your area, and these are dangerous mine-explosive assets that have been returned largely without punishing those who possessed it. But you mentioned one thing, which is with the abolized who were aggressors. Where's their weapon? And you said there on the left it was going on like this. Well, the fact is, as our people were arrested, located, transferred, while they toasted the HDZ Prime Minister Carly Del Ponte at that time, probably that weapon stood in that same place. If there's what you're saying that the abolized have weapons of aggression, then it's a disaster. Because it was obviously more of a priority to pass it on to the HDZ governments of Carla Del Ponte while she arrested Gotovina than to find that weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95720	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Hey, buddy Culey's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95721	With peaceful reintegration, not only have we entered the Croatian Podunavlje, but we have inherited the ones we found there and that we have introduced into the system of Croatian institutions both Croatian police, justice and all other institutions. The fact is that in 91, a police officer who escaped from the Vinkovci Police Administration and who spent the entire war in Mirkovci, who was a member of the Scorpions, passed through Bosnia, who was also on Vukovar, that in a peaceful reintegration he was found again as a former police officer and, therefore, by adjudication and forgiveness, he found himself in the Croatian police. All that he knew from the time of the province, all that he did to him was through forgiveness. However, he still did not hand over that rifle he owed to the Croatian police in the 1990s. I don't know if anyone's even asked him as well as those who found themselves in the judiciary in a court of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95722	Thank you, thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95723	The Honorable Chairman writes on Wikipedia: “The disarmament of Croatia’s territorial defence 90.” He says: “The handover of weapons then TO JNA 1990, before the aggression on Croatia took place” – watch this – “in cooperation with the then SKH SDP headed by Ivica Racan and which the weapons handed over to JNA. Croatia was thus seized by a weapon that could arm 200 thousand people." It says: "The SDP government of the SKH on 23 May 90th only 8 days before the gathering of the 1st Assembly with the HDZ majority after the first elections handed over the entire weaponry to the hostile JNA." It seems that the SDP gentlemen were then in favour of disarming Croatia, and today it seems to be a thorn in their eye. And I ask you, why do you think they're looking that way at... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95724	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95725	I'm asking you to respond. So, not only is this not true, but I think Wikipedia does, Mr. Pernar probably knows very well what's going on up there. According to that logic, Mr Culej could write this text that you have now read and tell us as the truth here in the Croatian Parliament. So this isn't true. Ivica Racan is responsible for the Republic of Croatia and its independence and is recognised by the late President Tudjman. And I'm asking you not to listen to it here in the Croatian Parliament anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95726	Dear fellow Maras, first of all, you did not give an article that is...... /The Intruder Maras:... Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Later. Secondly, to the entire Croatian public you were then a young man is known how the territorial defense was disarmed. So Mr. Pernar just repeated the facts and the truth historically. And the late Mr. Racan thing has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95727	Thank you, Mr. Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95728	So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. And he mentioned the SKH, and then he's headed to know who he was and he knows who disarmed the Territorial Defense. If it hadn't been for that, then the weapon would have ended up in the hands of the Croatian defenders. So, please, don't distort the historical truth, and I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure anymore. We're moving on to the reply to the replica. Dear colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95729	Dear colleague Pernar, I am particularly pleased that you, as a young person, have seen the historical delusions that some of our fellow contemporaries today try to impose on us by who knows which times. I can't admire your ingenuity how you've managed to see very well who's telling the truth here and who's not telling it. Often, those who have beautiful chosen words chosen from various manuals here perform by raising themselves a reiting of both saints and others and humiliating those on the other hand who were witnesses and contemporaries of these events, with one goal only to darken the truth. Lex's disappearance weapon is committed to Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95730	Thank you, colleague Culey. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95731	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Culey, I'll just say one little detail of my life. In fact, I was walking on the street for a while and I was stopped by a young man, and I think he's 18, 20 years old, and he says – Mr. Prelec, do you know why I'm raising my hand from this Croatia and thinking about leaving Croatia? Because you keep talking about the past, you're talking about my grandfather Ustasha or my grandfather Partisan, and one and the other are my grandfather. When will you talk again and finally about my future? How am I supposed to stay in this Croatia? And here's colleague Culey, unfortunately, all of us are encouraged to talk about the past about the 91st territorial defense, and this is a law that should be affirmative, for the future. And I really have to say that I live for the day when I'm going to read in the newspaper a sensation on the cover, a sensation from that title – believe it or not Stevo Culej talked about the future. It's really sensational.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95732	I thank my colleague Preleco for telling us about the future. Hey, buddy Culey's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95733	Be careful, colleague, dear colleague Prelec, I'll tell you about the future. We were all witnesses this year when our newest planes arrived and flew over the Knin Fortress. We all witness that the Croatian industry especially has the best results on arms, infantry and other equipment, and that is part of the future. If we look at a past that was noble and bloody, the question is, do we have or do we not have a weapon? I can talk about the past from experience. A lot of people here can't. I'm talking to you about the experience I've had, and if it hadn't been for that experience, maybe we wouldn't be sitting here today, a lot of you. I don't know where they'd be or what they'd be doing. I know what I'd do for sure. I've been working my whole life. Unlike many who have found themselves here by accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95734	I thank my esteemed colleague Cule for his reply. A colleague of Culej's, each parliamentary representative and parliamentary representative, are not here by accident but chosen by the will of the citizens. I'm asking you to respect that. We have the next line. Here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95735	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation I would like to ask the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for a period of 10 minutes related to this item of the agenda, i.e. with the debate that has taken place and please allow me to explain the reasons for seeking this break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95737	It is, above all, unacceptable that the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in response to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, interprets what is the historical truth and what is not. It is also fully declassified that in one law that speaks of the current relationship to the weapons that are in possession and which should be used by Croatian hunters etc. He's talking about some things that happened 28 years ago. However, it is obvious that we in Croatia cannot get away from it. So I can't get away from Mr. Culey, who is quite common, but I'm surprised he can't get away from it, Mr. Pernar, who in his entire political career has claimed to be facing only the future. He has now shown that his political action is much more focused on the past. Mr. Ivica Racan was one of the most responsible people in 1989-1990 that Croatia met the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and then moved on to a multi-party democratic system. And after that, it is even more deserved that in 2000, the Republic of Croatia has become a true democratic state only on paper. Today calling it this way is totally unacceptable. We of the SDP Representatives Club are therefore seeking a 10-minute break to consult on further action. And as for the comments that some have made on historical truths, it would be much better to concentrate on their work, on their actions, on what they have done in the last few weeks on what they did in 2011 and to finish some prostitutions doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95738	I'd like to thank my colleague, Peja Grbin. As for your return to the past, you haven't been in the assembly the whole time, some of your colleagues have returned to the past. And as for my work as chairman, you won't teach me about it. I'm setting a break until 14 o'clock and 20 minutes. Please, I apologize to my colleague Shuker for not having you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95739	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I request a 10 minute break to consult on further debate over this agenda item. So here today they want to deny the truth, they don't want to deny the facts. The fact is that the Croatian people of the 90s are disarmed. The fact is that the territorial defense weapon is committed to the Yugoslav People's Army. The fact is and today it is quite often mentioned here that the only Croats who had guns at that time were hunters. The fact is, when Clay and the Vishodeman fell, the first thing they did was go to Coop was big-gore hunters with guns because they only owned it. The fact that to the room where the Crisis Headquarters was located at the Central Intelligence Center in Velika Gorica was the weapons warehouse of the Territorial Defence. The fact is, that warehouse was empty at that point. That's the facts. The facts that may hurt someone and here are not, what I'm saying is not my goal or anyone else's name, but my goal is, after all, my civic duty, the duty of someone who was at the head of the City of Greater Gorica's Crisis Headquarters to simply say here on behalf of my dead fellow citizens. I think it would be extremely incorrect and unfair for everyone who died for Croatia not to say what is the fact. And the fact is that Croatia was disarmed in the '90s. I have no intention of calling anyone. I just want to talk in this high house about facts like I've been doing all these years as long as I'm here. And I think in this way denying something that's a historical fact, it's just not good. It's not good for our kids. Because look, if we can't agree on someone who's practically all living witnesses today, then how are we going to discuss things that practically no living witnesses have? That's it. And now, my colleagues and colleagues, I think we should simply accept who he is, who he is, who he is, who he isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95740	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95741	I'm not going to tell you at all which article was injured. Mr. Vice President, we're not wondering why five buses leave for Ireland today, five planes fly to Canada, one banal, I'm not going to tell the banal about one topic that was technically supposed to be solved today, you partisans, Ustasha and 91 again. Shame on us can be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95742	Thank you, fellow Matić. Please don't come in. I'd like to ask you in the future when you're using the Rules of Procedure Institute to tell me what it's about. Since you have been misused, I give you a notice based on Article 239, and I do not consider that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure? We don't. I'm setting a break until 14 o'clock and 25 minutes. MEETING at 14.15 p.m. CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING IN 14.27 Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session. Next replica, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95744	Thank you. The peaceful reintegration of the Podunov was absolutely one of the best things that happened, which is that not the dead people, our defenders, and the truth is the next, that I'm sure that should be welcomed. You know best that that time was HDZ in power, that it was the time you were in and how you could these 20 years all the questions you asked to solve, but obviously you love to forget that part. As for the subject you were talking about treason, territorial defense, handing over weapons, I have no doubt that all those years you wouldn't take advantage of the opportunity to get rid of that traitor who did it. So, all this time you're talking about, every time you go back, it would be good if you read that Mein Kamf book, then you wouldn't be talking about the main stream, but it would be a little different, sure you'd love that book.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95745	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić. Hey, buddy Culey's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95746	Well, colleague, I happened to read between many books and a few lines from and on certain journals. And as for peaceful reintegration, you know very well as a minister because you may have received reports from the Chiefs of Crime of the Special War Crimes Department, who in their reports told you about your officers at the time, which you received in a peaceful reintegration, which at the time were police officers of SAO Krajina, especially in Borovo Sela in the house I will remember the owner where the police station formed and where they brought our prisoners from Vukovar who were disappearing there. If they'd been questioned by a lot of quiet reintegration, we'd have known either that they as police officers had a conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95747	Thank you, colleague Culey. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Yosish Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So here is the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens who already received positive reviews in the first reading and who in the public debate actually experienced those things that were proposed to be included in it and he is a newspaper that brings some new things, which is amongst which are particularly interesting provisions concerning the process of obtaining weapons for personal safety. Procedure for conducting operational checks, procedure for checking the conditions for safe installation and storage of weapons. Provisions relating to the obligation to go to medical examinations, police cooperation and primary health care doctor or selected doctor. And provisions relating to weapons seized in administrative proceedings. The persons who want to obtain the weapons for personal safety will have to prove the justification for the cause of the supply of the weapons for the specified purpose. The proposal for this law defines that the justified reason for the purchase of a weapon for the purpose of personal security has a person who demonstrates that its personal security is compromised or could be endangered to such an extent that it needs arms for its insurance, and that the activities and measures of the security institutions and other measures could not provide additional protection. In the process of requesting arms, operational inspections on the ground will no longer be carried out by police officers who, in conversations with neighbors and other persons who know the applicant, have tried to determine whether there are any obstacles to the supply of weapons and so have been done in a number of things that really have been the neighbors who have disabled the supply of both hunting weapons or weapons of personal protection. These checks significantly extended the duration of proceedings and the operational part of the service took time to carry out other police duties. Often, there was no specific useful information, but it was mostly what she said, heard, told, and who the good neighbor was talking about. That's what today is absolutely unacceptable and inappropriate. Police officers will no longer be in the living rooms of the person supplying the weapons to check that he has secured conditions for safe installation and weapons storage but will make a statement of this under material and criminal responsibility when submitting the request and will thus be responsible for the institutions to place the weapons in an adequate space as well as adequate cabinets designed for the installation and storage of weapons and ammunition. During the purchase of weapons, a citizen will have to contribute to the belief of the health capacity to possess weapons, but will no longer have to go to medical checks every 5 years as per the current law on the supply of weapons. And health checks will have to be carried out after 70 years of age. I think it's a provision that's good and that 70 years is a beautiful lifetime after which you really need to check man's ability to hold and carry a weapon. When requesting authorisation for the supply of weapons, citizens will have to provide information about their selected primary healthcare physician, and the police department or the station will inform the selected doctor about persons who have been issued the armed list. Based on this information, the selected primary healthcare physician will have to inform the police administration or become aware of changes in the health condition or course of treatment of the gun owner and affecting the health capacity to possess weapons. The weapon seized in administrative proceedings because a criminal or criminal offence has been brought against the owner of the weapon, the owner will have to sell or donate only after a decision has been taken in criminal or criminal proceedings which the gun owner has been convicted of a criminal offence or offence. In this way, it will avoid the situation so far to deprive the owner of weapons as his property, and to be released later by the court in charge of a criminal offence or offence against him. The owner of a weapon that will be released in a legally completed criminal or criminal procedure, the weapons seized will be returned. I believe that the final draft of the law is well done, that all remarks and proposals have been considered in particular in the public consultation process and the best-quality proposals adopted, that the final bill certainly sets a significant step in creating conditions in which citizens will not have to view the police as an exclusive repressive apparatus. But also a significant step towards improving the administration's relations with the citizens. And what I want to stress in this law is that the hunters were really you, the hunting alliance that proposed concrete legal measures that were included and accepted, and we welcome that. However, I would like to stress that indeed the hunters in the disarmed Croatia were with the police the only armed force that stood in the defense of the Republic of Croatia. It's a fact we can't ignore in this debate, no matter what we go back to the past. It should be repeated because hundreds of hunters died with hunting weapons defending Croatia, especially in the Croatian East as well as elsewhere throughout our country of Croatia, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are things to talk about when we remember those days, and it should be said that the former minister of foreign affairs, the SFRY, was the one who sent the UN the arms embargo to Croatia and thus prevented Croatia from being armed. These are facts that neither I nor anyone else can keep quiet. They should be made clear that the top of the Yugoslav People's Army with the general staff and the KOS disarmed Croatia with or without the SDP's consent to the SDP in Croatia. It's a dispute we've talked about and heard about today, but with historical truths we really need to have the way they are. Yes, hunting weapons and weapons of personal protection must be the least used by Croatian citizens for criminal offences and that is clear and unequivocal according to all the records. I think every responsible man who has requested a license to hold or carry a weapon becomes aware of how responsible he is in his custody and use, and surely the least criminal acts stemming from just such a registered weapon. And here, I welcome the adoption of this Law and I hope it will benefit Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95749	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djakic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95750	The law turns out to be a very justified measure, which is to check the police with the neighbors. Why? So the neighbors can say that in this family whose member is now seeking weapons there is domestic violence, constant noises, quarrels, alcoholism, drugs. So these are people who can warn the police, so you're not gonna let that man have a weapon. And now you're throwing it out. I say that someone asks me, I would never let you take a weapon to a man who speaks... the media, you wouldn't. I'd say he's not educated enough, he's not educated enough to own a weapon at all, that he's potentially dangerous to the citizens. You say he'll make a statement, the certified statement will make that he, look, and Petrov has made a statement twice your coalition partner has made a statement that he will not be with either one or the other in the notebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95751	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95752	What does your statement mean now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95753	I'd like to thank my colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95754	And just, as far as the past goes, let's answer why Tudjman let Arkan go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95755	Reply to the replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we're aware of your point of view. We are fully aware that neither I nor Shuker, nor Steve Culey, nor Bull, nor one of my colleagues in your opinion that you and your neighbors would have received our weapons. If the police questioned you, we'd always be the bad guys for you. That's the attitude you've been taking since the beginning. So you probably had an attitude in those beginnings of the creation of the Croatian state when you were against its independence along with those who sat in the Croatian Parliament. I hope you will never be my neighbor and decide my fate or my colleagues' fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95757	I thank my colleague Djakic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95758	Thank you very much. In the first part of your debate, you referred to the law, and in the last part you were offered certain discussions that took place on this side of the assembly touched historical facts. And the historical facts are that with the police, the police, the police who were like that, the only ones we could rely on were hunters. They had the only weapon. Yesterday was the day of my 153rd brigade, and I'll tell you when Glina and Vidujevac fell, the first to stop the Chetnik hordes from going towards Zagreb were hunters. That's a fact. This is history, and it may not be too much because of those who are constantly denying it, so on one such technical law, reminding them that the Croats were without weapons what few they had disarmed and gave to JNA. We who have participated in this whole process know well how it was. And because of those who died in the fall unarmed in jeans because of them, we have to say today in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95759	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Shuker you remembered well those days, when really after the announced aggression, after disarming the general staff and the KOS by means of probably a party, only hunters and part of the police who were part of the Croatian police remained. The others were who they were, and they actually organized in some police stations the rebellion and disarmament of Croatian police officers. That's true. Only 87 hunters in Vukovar-Srijem County gave their lives for Croatia in those beginnings. And that's the truth we can't escape from. Hundreds of others in other places as well as thousands of weapons that went from hunting homes to Croatian troops as the first snipers. These are the facts some forget, with which some do not want to face.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95761	I thank my colleague Djakic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95762	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Katic and his associate. My colleagues and colleagues. The truth is what it is, we can't ignore it, but obviously some can just not accept it. But let us go back to this law that regulates the rights and obligations to which the law applies. A legal basis is being created for the legitimate acquisition of possession and carrying of weapons. The procurement and possession process itself is facilitated, certain administrative barriers are removed, which is good, such as the operational procedures of the police that required countless outings on the ground, and ultimately did not produce any desired significant results. As we have heard from the Secretary of State in the Republic of Croatia is registered somewhere around 267 thousand legal weapons, and what is important for once again to emphasise that it is below, committed under 2% of the crime precisely with this legal weapon, which although not perfect statistics speak of awareness and responsibility of users. In itself, there is, of course, the conclusion that additional efforts need to be made to prevent these 98% of the crimes committed by these very illegal weapons, which are dangerous for society, while at the same time creating here today a bad picture of this subject in public, mainly because of weapons still present in the Republic of Croatia after the Homeland War and despite all the efforts of the Ministry of the Interior. Given the truly disciplined users and hunters, and shooters, athletes and citizens who possess weapons, and given the fact that below 2% of the crime was committed with legal weapons, I believe this law is small and strict when we look at art. 11th century. in Article 5, the following paragraph is added: 49th, which says that weapons, ammunition and weapons documents will temporarily be seized by the competent authority immediately before the administrative and criminal and criminal proceedings are launched, which in some way opens the option for the citizen holding the weapon to be taken away immediately after there is only doubt that one of the offences listed in these articles is committed. And today there have been controversy over the validity of the medical belief until the 70th year, we think it is commendable that this is a valid medical belief, it was questionable this age of 70 years. But I personally believe that this periodic review of every 5 years is useful for the users themselves, but yet everyone takes care of his own health. Doctors have been commended as a new factor and decision to control these selected general practice doctors is sufficient and certainly another example of reduction of unnecessary red tape, which in this way has the possibility or obligation to report any changes even forced hospitalisation to a neighbor’s tip. Surely this future network of doctors and police is commendable, and responsibility in this case with an individual on their psychophysical condition is placed on the doctor and can also be viewed through one financial discharge, given that the checks ranged from 350 to 500 kuna. It is also commendable to the decision that the age limit in sports competitions is down to 9 years, which is a kind of incentive to this sport and has indeed come across the approval of the entire sports population and all of this is a modern law that does not fall away from the European legislative framework, and I look at it through that the Republic of Croatia shows and recognises the current discipline of the seriousness and self-responsibility of Croatian citizens who legally own their weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95763	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95764	Thank you very much. You told your colleague briefly everything you thought about this law and made certain remarks. But we can see that in this debate it went from topic to comment on both the main commentators and the critic of the Law of Weapons of all people here who listen, it is commented by the man who said - that in May 45 work did not seem to have been done thoroughly the glamour of the winner. The weapon is dangerous, mine-explosive means, but that moral education is being held by Nenad Stazic, who said this about this topic, at least it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95765	I thank my colleague Bull. Here's a reply from my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95766	Here is my colleague Bulj, the weapon is really dangerous, and some people are here and abroad, so they don't really know how dangerous it is, and on the very statements of Mr. Stazić here I wouldn't get involved especially when we talk about really one discipline that we have in the Republic of Croatia of these users of the legal weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95767	I thank my colleague Mikulić for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95768	Dear colleague, it is not a matter of medical examinations beyond the 1970s whether they are mandatory or not, whether they are useful or not, but why they too do not remain free. That's what the real question is. The point is, however, it is the provision of certain financial resources for peer reviews that are then carried out, rather than in that variant as provided for in the law. And so that intensity would be useful and okay if it were accepted. And secondly, I have to say that if a colleague is already setting up a replica of what you haven't said, the chairman isn't warning him, then at least it would be a turn if you didn't accept it and don't respond to such replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95769	Thank you, colleagues. I'll stay for this useful information. We have my colleague Mikulić's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95770	I thank Mr. Ostojić for his advice. But I think this Assembly is the area where we can all talk together, so so can my colleague Bull, so can I. Of course, a good proposal if it has the opportunity to provide these people more than 70 years of free review. Why not? I absolutely support it, of course, if it's possible... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95771	Thank you for your response. Next debate, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will first of all say that in this final bill there is no longer any indication of the possibility of collecting weapons of category A. This is the situation now that it must be disabled and belongs to category C. When it is stated to be disabled, it must be irrevocably disabled, thus losing each of its collectorial values and causing significant material damage and is of exceptional value. And then when you do, disable it, then you'll get something worth 100 to 200 euros. It's kind of like having a rhythmic Cadillac, etc. And then at that point he has to be disabled in a way to move his engine. Then try to sell it. You're absolutely not going to have any chance. I'm saying this for reasons I think the directive has given it a chance to regulate it differently, not only through museums as it is indicated here in our law, but that it can be done in another way, and that means that we have that in our collectors. As regards the people involved in sports shooting, they will not be prevented from obtaining and possessing semi-automatic firearms of category A referred to in Article 7(1) of this Act. Although all of this can be done together, I think it is a mistake that since the first reading is left out the issue of firearms that is classified in category B in force, and the final proposal of the law is classified in category A, or completely prohibited, thereby causing significant material damage and violating rights acquired to all legal owners of such firearms. This weapon is of course used by people who participate in the most popular shooting contest of the International Practical Shooting Federation and also by the International Defence Pistol Association. Therefore, these are clearly regulated shooting associations. They are even stronger than many others who are named and cited in reasons. I think it would be very important that in this segment of these... and especially because they had already done so and yet the directive does not have to be so strict and does not mean that it has to be in category A. Also, as regards arms dealers, I must say that there will be serious injustice against authorised arms dealers who, according to this final proposal, will not be able to buy weapons B categories from collectors, but collectors can only sell it to another collector or person who has the authority to purchase weapons of category B and in cases of sale or sale of weapons of the C category is also intended to sell or hand over that weapon to the collector or person who does not have the authorisation to collect weapons of category C under the obligation to report it. Such a solution could be installed inside. I think that would be a much better variant and that would make certain articles completely and better corrected. I would also like to point out that it is necessary to allow normal work to be done directly by authorised arms dealers as well as in all other European Union countries. For example, Slovenian arms dealers can buy from Croatian citizens, and these weapons can be resold on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but the Croatian trader cannot do so and that is why we strengthen actually the gray trade in arms, which is not in the interest of either the state or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the rest of the story I will say that these amendments will, of course, I have tried and consulted in some way and in discussions on the Committee, these amendments will be on the agenda when there is a vote. I suppose everything will be rejected, etc. But the truth is that this bill would make this example of how we use the directive in a way that we're bigger popes than the Pope. It does not mean that the directive places a certain space, so let us be stronger than others, and that means that we should respect the European Union with as much respect for our common legislation as it is necessary for our citizens to still have more favourable conditions than it says in all these papers that arrive. Because synchronising doesn't mean we have to accept every element they listed. We tried to point that out in the first and second readings. We repeat, it's no problem to improve the law. Even so. In the name of the Representatives Club, it is said that it will be the support of the law, but on the other hand we expected this variant, which is to try to find the part that can make it easier for people who deal with it to make it easier for traders, people who are involved in sports, who are in the fact that they do not have to be victims of such a law. I'm saying this precisely for the reason why the issue of illegal weapons possessions and weapons that are legal for which you have papers, a gun sheet, you keep it, etc. It just shows a relationship, so a lack of repressive measures towards those who are ultimately stimulated by situations like this to have legal weapons with a lack of control that happens. In fact, we strengthen that part of the story, which is that illegal weapons will be a lot more by passing such a law than by encouraging people to legalise, to have permits, to be in line with the laws and directives of the European Union. I think that should be the point. That would make it easier for the prevention, of course, to work easier for the police. I see in all this together that the regularity of control in some way, so I think those promotional actions that were done before were absolutely not without the result that people were able to move away that in mothers' families they were interested in no longer being available to children, especially the explosive devices that were there. Therefore, not all of this should be said in all those years of the campaign should not be seen negatively they have their positive effect and I think that's good. In the early '90s, there was a lot of things that could be mentioned as the possibility of habit and creating an atmosphere to normally keep a weapon in the house. And you see, I'm deliberately not talking about anything else right now, but about what this law applies to. This atmosphere is a problem for Croatia. The atmosphere in which the rifle normally lies on the closet, standing there to keep the bullets close, etc. and the tragedies that have been happening are more reason to try precisely to legalise this situation, that is, with measures that can help us through people being stimulated to register their weapons, to be in a position to respect naturally European and all other regulations, and to reduce the number of tragedies that, of course, occur with weapons. There's only so much on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95773	I thank my colleague Ostojić. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95774	Dear colleague Ostojić, I absolutely support your debate, and in order to in some way point out what you said about the holders of the legal weapon being, in some way, the victims of such a law. There is something that many ignore, and many do not know. The value of that property and that property. Often, such weapons are owned by weapons whose value exceeds hundreds of thousands of kunas. Under this provision of the law, they must permanently incapacitate such property as they wish to retain it. So this property of over a hundred and some thousand kunas becomes a worthless piece of iron worth its weight. And it certainly requires that we find a different model of relationship to such property because literally the owner of such a weapon is legal, therefore, not someone who commits a violation of the law, acting under this law defies his own property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95775	I thank my colleague, Klaric. The answer of my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95776	I'm glad we can agree on these elements. It was just that message. There is a way to register such a part, it does not necessarily have to be permanently disabled, it can be registered and in all other ways preserve the same story as we do. It doesn't necessarily just have to be a museum, it can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95777	I thank my colleague Ostojić. The next replica is a respected colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95778	Dear colleague Ostojić, I'll talk about it a hundred times and I won't stop talking about it. It is not a problem with weapons left behind from the Homeland War, which have surrendered to the police in the "Peace and Good" action. It's not a problem with guns. The problem is that the same weapon disappears from the police warehouse and the secret channels are being transferred to who knows where and for whom. It's a weapon from the Varazdinska Police Department intended for the black market and terrorist organisations. And that's the weapon of a lot of Homeland War pieces. There is also a hundred times problem, a weapon dedicated from the Homeland War in the action "Peace and Good" in the Croatian police, ended where it shouldn't have. Answer me in the style of mein strim media, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95779	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95780	I will answer you the way I can answer you, and with the media, you do your own business and deal with it. If you think it's really the only problem in Varazdin where you got the answer of three years, the situation hasn't changed, and I'm not a minister for three years, so you haven't been able to ask the new ministers who happened to answer you in the meantime, now you've asked a representative question to me, I'm looking forward to you getting that answer. But I'll remind you 17 assassinations were made with weapons from Croatia, 17 assassinations around the world, I'm not going to name names now because I don't have time. The fact is, it's not the only problem just from the Varazdin police station.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95781	I thank you for your response to my colleague Ostojić. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, most of the things I said in my debate on behalf of the Club, but in this individual debate, I want to refer to some of the things that I have said in an individual debate as comments or proposals in the first reading. So, I welcome the abolition of the medical examination as I was saying in the first reading and this morning, but my suggestion that the user, you wear an armed list should still prescribe some kind of, some obligation to report to your general practice doctor. I don't think it was bad and there was room to fit it in. Why wasn't it bad that there was room to install it? Why? Because now we have a situation where the control of the medical condition of people with weapons will be carried out by doctors of general practice, and it can happen that someone hasn't gone to a doctor in 50 years. It could be that he hasn't left for 50 years and we've discussed it. Now these people are out of control. And the difference between a mandatory medical examination and a mandatory doctor's report is that a mandatory doctor's report at least once every five years costs nothing, and a doctor's examination is paid anyway. And the intensity of abolishing the medical examination was precisely that of avoiding payment and administrative discharge. So let's say I think it should have been classified, that it could have been discussed. Also my suggestion that the police pay attention to these false charges in criminal offences, I believe that if someone is suspected of committing a crime or that they might do something, they need to take away their weapons immediately and not wait for something to happen to God. But what I was saying was that the police were dealing with these cases faster because we know that someone was taking away their weapons because the neighbor accused him of an event and then it took a year or two or three days until the police even brought a word to the police whether it was justified or not. My intensities were in the first reading just because police officers would be relieved of these checks they had to have at the time of the first request for a gun license, that they now have more time and that they could work a little more to determine the truthfulness of these applications and of course that this could not be prescribed by law. I didn't expect it, but I expected it was just a distraction for you at the MUP to take care of it. Here, just so that as soon as they try to illuminate these cases and get to the point of whether a threat has been justified or whether a weapon has been held up justifiable or unwarranted. And secondly, I would like to say that the debate in the first reading was very constructive and quality. Also, in this second reading, the debate was very constructive and very good in the morning until the afternoon. And I must express my regret that this debate has turned into the last two hours, especially since there is no debate at all on the subject under discussion today. History can also be debated and debated, but when it comes to the topic of debate, not something that was not the subject at all today. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95783	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. We're moving on to the next debate. My dear colleague, Marco Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95784	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I am referring to my colleague Đujic, I am also sorry that this constructive debate is rare from these in the Croatian Parliament, and that we had to listen here to certain historical lectures, some facts. I'll tell history let's leave it to historians. There are very serious historical researchers who are slightly different to tell you this story that we have heard today from some representatives of the ruling majority, which comes down to the fact that the SDP has handed over weapons to the Territorial Defence. That concept was a little different in the former state. The JNA was at the top, so the general's orders took the weapon. You know it's a time of one powerlessness, etc. Read some of the articles that were done by historical Mr. Shucker, and then you bring the dishes. But I don't want to talk about this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95785	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95786	I'll get on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95787	JNA was criminal and aggressive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95788	I had a need to say that. I had a need to say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95789	And you can't change the facts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95790	I'll get on the subject. You're not the one who tells us the historical facts here after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95792	All right. Thank you. Well, here's to getting back on the subject, back to the law. I don't have too many objections. I honestly did not participate in the debate on this Law in first reading, and I am glad that it goes in this direction in which it goes to facilitate our hunters that I highly appreciate, with whom I also as head of the local self-government unit, and I can say that I will agree that it is certainly not those who, just as we have heard, are killing hearts. They are really directed towards hunting, towards protecting nature, according to one real and socially useful work. They are often involved in various humanitarian actions, etc. But my debate on this law will be focused on the past, further past. I'm going to go back a little bit further, but there's going to be something that's very important and very relevant at least for the end I come from, but certainly for some other parts of Croatia, which is that it's not enough through the law to regulate the use of traditional firearms. So one better status that should be given to associations and organisations dealing with this one activity most often in some solemn occasions, and here there is a specific problem of registration. I will, of course, be talking about what comes from my neighborhood problem registering the kuburs as the legislator here points out in the law or you gun as we say it in our area which has one here truly great tradition. This tradition dates back to 1523 and one of the most famous organizations... is the club Kostelska gun, Kegljevic's guard Kostel, which is also the historical unit of Krapina-Zagorje County and the historical unit of the Croatian Army and members of the Union of European Military History Units. In his acting like I said he cherished that one loud shot. It is linked primarily to the Easter holidays and the transfer of course of this beautiful custom to younger generations. Here I come from a family where it's been taking a lot of care for a few generations. In addition, it is active at various social events, and it is always a pleasure to see guests of many other cities, municipalities throughout Croatia and across the European Union, and this practice of loud shooting also has the status of the immaterial cultural good of the Republic of Croatia through the 2012 solution of the Ministry of Culture. And I'm going to say a little bit about that same loud shot. You know that's one tradition here, here's the Grizzly Top we hear almost everyone, we hear actually every day those of us here in the assembly, I don't know cats for Sinj Alka. A colleague Klaric, of course, and his City Watch, who are always happy to see our guests in Pregrad, the City Guard from Požega, is not here now fellow Ronka. So, they're numerous, but of course they need the weapon they're shooting from right now. There is now a particular problem, given that at least as far as the cubes or guns are concerned, a good part of their products, or produced them in a particular domestic capacity. Of course, the legislator did not now provide for the registration of these. There was some possibility of registering such a weapon a few years ago, however, it is now missing. I will, through the amendments, actually appeal to the first expansion of the circle of mandates for the acquisition of these weapons, it enters the weapons of category C. So, to be there, in fact, to be represented organizations that have traditionally produced firearms and use them to point out, during the occasion and events. And the second, in fact, to allow them, within one year from the date of entry into force of this Act, to enable them to have one, given that there has been a legal gap to register that weapon in order to legally regulate this situation and to enable holders of such a type of weapon to extend the time limit for registration to the competent authority. Here we would, I call on the ruling since some MPs also come from these environments where it is very important for one tradition, to preserve historical identity. I'll say here, for example. The Krapina-Zagorje County, apart from this association, which is probably the most famous one, we have thirty other organizations that are gathering kuburash, is some of the 2,000 members that I would like to regulate the status of their weapons in this way and I believe that we can also amend that into this bill and thus give one of our contributions to the preservation of a historical heritage. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95793	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95794	Thank you very much. Comrade Weldergay, you're absolutely right when you say that a part of the ruling majority here today was not discussing this law or sticking to this topic. And that's because they didn't even read this law because it stems from their discussions. Because the only thing they're saying here today was about these facts that aren't even the subject of the debate. Not even the subject of this law, except for a colleague, Klaric, who's been all over the subject and hasn't said anything outside the subject today all day. But the other colleagues, the other colleagues, they only talk to each other, and they haven't even read the law. And I see that my colleague Shuker has also raised a line, so I look forward to his next replica to you where he will surely tell you about the cats and the cubes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95795	Dear Djujic, replicate your colleagues to Veligaju, but do not mention any other parliamentary colleagues. But here's the answer. ... My colleague, please, I have not given you my word, but I have given my word to my colleague Weligai. [[intruder doesn't understand]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95796	Thank you, Vice President. Here's fellow Djujic, unfortunately I have to agree with you, I'm sorry that this is one debate, here's the ruling they said, about this technical law went into these waters. I repeat, on the historical facts, let the historians judge. We have our own views on history, we have certain research that is still under way. Look, there's still a period being explored, say, World War II, so we're coming up with some data. This period of the Homeland War will be explored for a long time, even though we haven't even talked about it. We were talking about the '90s, we were talking about some very strange times, very complex times, times when a whole order was collapsing, when it was coming new. And I am sorry that it has been entered into this kind of flat-rate rating and that it has been called the Hansel of Racan, when we all know well and all the relevant historians of his merit for the introduction of multi-party in Croatia have admitted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95797	I would like to thank my colleague Squirt for your reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 237 and 238. Rules of Procedure, you've broken it because you're not holding a session with uniform criteria. So, you've warned a colleague of the Weeds earlier that he's not sticking to the subject, and before that, two of your party colleagues didn't warn you that he didn't stick to the subject even though they didn't stick to it. And it's exactly what my colleague Stazic told you, when he was mentioned in the discussions where he was neither the subject nor the subject, you didn't react at all. And now you're telling me not to mention my colleague Schooker. I just said I'm looking forward to his debate about this cat and cougar law. What I'm sure will now follow after this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95799	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. Don't tell the truth, listen to the phonogram of the session since I took over the presidency and you will hear among other things, that I personally warned my colleague Culei about it. So please don't say anything that doesn't stand. And you're not replicating me in your replica. You're replicating a colleague who's exposed you before. So you have no right to replicate to me. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. You shall be entitled to the opinion of the committee responsible under the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95800	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague, Vesligai, with most of your debate. But what I've come up with is what you started your discussion with. So you started talking about having some history anyway. If I'm not mistaken for the first club that asked for a break here today and started mentioning the history of the SDP club, then the HDZ Club asked for it. You cannot dispute the fact, especially these days when many, especially the Zagreb brigades of their anniversary, and you cannot dispute the fact that these brigades did not have the weapons that someone handed over to JNA. That's a fact. But calling someone that someone can't say something, somebody can't say something, I repeat your club has asked for a break and your club has been talking about it in the light of the break. Ours was just a reaction, and history and facts and truth are on our side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95801	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. The answer of my colleague, Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95802	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Shuker, we all know who started the debate and who usually starts these discussions. It came from a colleague of yours in the back row, and it's been going on ever since. You are, I appreciate, you are a witness of time. You know probably some things, but again, let's leave history to historians especially up at these higher levels of, say, higher policy levels. The fact is, of course, neither I nor anyone is arguing that JNA took the weapons of territorial defense. I mean, you know that. But it's very casual to say once again that some sort of reduced and this has come from your party, your representative was reduced very casually that it was done by the then SKH or SDP in the 5th month of last year. Of course, Mr. Pernar also quoted a source that is absolutely unreal, and that's the Wikipedia that we all know can write whoever he wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95803	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95804	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm sorry that, unfortunately, the debate about such an important law is turning into something you shouldn't. I've had enough of partisans, Ustasha and Hun, Tatar, Avara and I think we should turn to the future. I think our citizens are tired of listening to all this, so many of them are leaving the Republic of Croatia. But let's get back to it, let's get back to this law. As far as the law is concerned, it is fixed and I believe that some changes have been made that really solve some important problems related to weapons. As for Article 15, I welcome that someone finally realized that every five years it is not necessary to go to a doctor's office for hunting weapons because since you get your driver's license for many years, and sometimes I think that a car is a more dangerous weapon than this firearm, I think that you should move that border far away. I am sorry that it is not prescribed as it is in the European Union that there are no restrictions in years, because hunters themselves go hunting as far as they can. But some want to even after they can't go hunting to be a hunter and have a feeling they're still in that status that they have their rifle in the closet while they live, because it's tradition and some kind of status symbol. And I think that's what they should be allowed to do. And I think that the family doctor is adequate enough to say that someone really can't have a weapon because of something and that at that point he needs to be referred to an extraordinary medical examination to determine whether the conditions for taking it or leaving it for life have been met. We in HSS will find some compromise between this, so we will submit one amendment to make it 80 years old anyway, because if I make a little joke, today every ballad is 50 years old, so people at 70, 75 years old are still in good shape, condition, and I believe that those who are less property power, and mostly those who are retired are members of small hunting associations who come in that year are very hard to pay for a medical examination every 5 years, and I think they should be able to make as much further possible that they do not have to go to that medical examination. The second thing is an article in the 19th that discusses the authorisation for the supply of weapons. So in case one hunter, and almost every hunter has a gun with a smooth pipe and a narrow tube and at the time he gets a new rifle that he likes or wants it will be one of those two weapons he already has, he'll have to go through the security check again. I think it's unnecessary to burden police officers, and administration, and create new paperwork, and man already has such a weapon. I think automation should give him a license for such a weapon. The following article on which I would have noted is Article 40, which says that the heir to the weapon is required within 60 days of the day of the power of the decision to inherit the weapon is sold or donated, and then there are long conditions with which I agree. But in 60 days today, it's very difficult to sell hunting weapons. And here's a colleague earlier said that some of the hunting weapons are worth 100,000. They're worth far more than that. And now imagine when a man who is an average asset may inherit a rifle from his father or two rifles worth 100, 200 thousand kunas and he can't sell it in 60 days. Very rarely they'll sell them on such short notice. And after that, they are taken away from him or must be given to the state without compensation or given to someone so that they will not be destroyed. I think we should put this here, remove that restriction so that the weapon can be stored in a police station or some kind of watchdog where it will be kept and to keep it within a reasonable period of time until it has to be sold or can be sold. If, after five years of my knowledge, he fails to sell, that weapon must somehow be provided to someone who will care for him and handle him. As for light weapons, about terrorist attacks, suicide and some other robberies, and I don't know what, they happen most rarely with legal weapons. And I think that this easier supply of weapons and holding should be encouraged and this easier way to stimulate because these people holding weapons, who have registered weapons, believe that they are watching their steps, is less violence in the family, because all of this is causing weapons to be taken away and large penalties. I hope that many of the procedures that occur with the weapons that have been seized, and I have witnessed one example that the police have seized the weapon for a certain reason, after a certain number of years, the party has been given the right to return the weapon, and one gun has disappeared. I don't know how this could happen if the weapon was stored at the police station under the records of a carabin disappearing. Normally, because of peace, a man wouldn't complain, and he stared at that story and just one gun ended up somewhere. What kind of record is that? Who cares about that weapon? I think it's not only the law that needs to be obeyed, but it's the functioning of police officers and police officers who run the police station under which such things happen. He who wants to commits an evil with weapons will come to him because everywhere in the world there was, there is, and there will be illegal weapons available on the black market. And it simply doesn't depend on the citizens either, but I don't think it's this law, but on those who have to enforce the law and who have to be harder on those searches when they're looking for weapons. I have the same neighborhood, I'm not going to tell you what kind of settlement, where there's a little bit of guns and nobody's doing anything. A bit of people are afraid because if a gun is fired during a wedding, if a gun is fired during some celebrations, then it can also be fired and later, and it's all automatic weapons. I think it should be hit, and this hunting weapon and weapon that's being prepared for personal protection, which, in a large case, should never be used, should simply be allowed to be so controlled and as much of that weapon under control and that as little desire exists in people to acquire illegal weapons because illegal weapons hidden in the attics, there is a danger in the basements for children and grandchildren of those who hide that weapon. They may not be aware of it, but the greatest evils can be done to themselves and to their families with such illegal weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95805	I thank Mr. Lenart. We have one replica. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95806	Dear colleague Lenart, you mentioned the purchase of a new weapon after the user already had a weapon, or approval to hold and carry weapons. I may have misunderstood you, but in this article. The 19th station you mention there is prescribed that the competent police station, i.e. the MUP, will only control these two paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article. Nine. So, not all of those conditions but only whether the person seeking re-procuring the weapons is convicted or being prosecuted in the Republic of Croatia or abroad. So, not all those other conditions, health check. Maybe you got it all wrong, either you or me. What exactly were you thinking about? Because if this is how I interpret the law, then it's completely understandable, you have a weapon not to check out health and all those other conditions, it's simply going to check to see if there's been any prosecution in the meantime or if you're legally convicted or abroad or here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95807	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Answer? Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95808	Dear colleague Klaric, I read it the same way you did, but I deliberately mentioned what was the problem now and that it would not happen again. I think it will be as you interpreted it, but I purposely pointed out that there might not be any place left, because the difference was between the Kutina Police Station and the Police Station in Zagreb. And one law was you know. Someone's interpreting it like this, someone's interpreting it like that. It must be explicitly written here that it is the end of the story. And it's supposed to be like this, like you and I used to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95809	I thank my esteemed colleague Lenart for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Secretary of State and his associate. Here today's debate has shown seriousness and the situation and the law that we are discussing, but I am also glad that both the left and right sides, means the opposition and the ruling agree, and that everyone will uniquely support this bill, and that this is the result, I think that this third government, Klaric, is better aware of it, started with the Milanovic Government amending this Law on Weapons, and then this second short government, so today, hundreds of meetings, and talks with the Hunting Union, the Shooting Union and attempts to accept all the standards of European modern European countries. And here's thank God, that's caused fruit, so I thank Mr. Secretary of State Katic with his associates who had great patience and understanding and probably the minister who accepted it and the prime minister, that they accepted all our remarks practically and everything that we discussed through the last government, and also in this first reading that went past. Here I am sorry that there are still today people who in Croatia are having one impatience or afraid, I would say they are afraid, I don't believe they're malicious, they're afraid. She was one state secretary who mentioned us, she would have disarmed everyone in Croatia, she threatened and said to mention the weapons – what weapons, no one should have weapons. Well said one of the previous speakers here is a car that's more dangerous than a weapon because a lot more people get killed in a car than guns, but we don't ban a car. So here I am joining my colleagues who have said here clearly that illegal weapons are a danger, and this legal weapon is certainly not a danger. But here's a story from life. He would come back a few days ago and one of my colleagues said he went to extend the gun list for his four pieces of weapons he has because he's pointing out 14 of these, so he went a little 15 days to do it, and he said, "You have to fill out 4 papers, 4 applications, 4 she forms for each weapon, each one puts a tax mark, and your personal data is copied on every one of those logs, and then the guy in the MUP has to go home and look at what kind of weapon he's holding, and then the commission will meet and decide whether to extend the gun list. It was just like old times. I hope that's the past and that such actions will never be repeated again. Maybe you'd just suggest to the MUP, I don't know how much this modernization and formatification is accepted, whether it's going to have to continue to fill out some papers like that five times the same, or what we have on the record or what you have on the record to make it easier for people. If we have come to the situation today that the housekeeper, that the birth certificate can be extracted through e-business, then I believe that this should also be modernised in the MUP so that those who come for new weapons, and also those who have such a situation to be asked for in the budget, tomorrow in the rebalancing of funds, should be modernised and informed so that people have as easily as possible to solve this paperwork. Because I'm saying today it's really been a tragedy here and this change of law, I hope it's all going to be thrown out now, and it won't be necessary like that for every single piece of weapon for a special application, so special papers and so on. Here, in that belief, I congratulate you once again and thank you for bringing this to an end and for accepting our suggestions. And around we have heard we will uniquely support this law, it is the best confirmation that a good thing has been done and that here are all those who have weapons, especially Croatian hunters will have a easier procedure to solve their problems tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95811	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for this debate. We have a closing word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE Representatives Club. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95812	I'd like to say that the current Arms Act is necessary to look at with a historical retreat, and here's why. 1990. Croatia was undeniably disarmed. Our people are out of resources to defend themselves. According to all of this, she was not only at the party at the time, but she was also at the JNA, or its leadership, which requested that all weapons be surrendered. However, history tells us that political leadership in Slovenia refused to hand over the weapons of JNA, while political leadership in Croatia prevented the handover of JNA. The very fact that the Croatian people were at that time disarmed actually gave the green light of the JNA for aggression on Croatia. The fact that Alexander Stankovic is trying to impose, let's say some weightier that there's been a civil war, that's false thesis. Unfortunately, in Croatia, broadcasting is supported by colleagues from HDZ, whose leadership is supported by such thesis. But to get back to the scale of things. If Croatia had been armed, I'm sure JNA wouldn't dare go into aggression. And what many defenders are afraid of, which is, people are afraid history will happen again. Whether history will repeat itself or not we don't know it today. We can't tell. However, history is a teacher of the future. And if nothing else history teaches us to be ready for such a possibility. For this reason, I can understand defenders who have illegal weapons, and the state does not allow it to be legalized. And why is that? Because once in history, it happened, and it happened when they had to give their lives to our country that they had no weapons in their hands and they didn't want to be put in a situation where in case there was another war to have nothing to defend themselves with. Why? Because the government in Croatia, unfortunately, is a traitor in my court. She works for foreign interests just like she did before she was 90. That's how, unfortunately, he's still working in my court today. And this Arms Act doesn't solve that question at all. So, he doesn't allow defenders to legalize the weapons they have from the war even though, as I said in Switzerland, a country that has never been at war in the last I don't know, 400 years in Switzerland believe the concept of an armed people and anyone can have that. Anyone who serves the army can't have it, but the state gives him an automatic rifle and says, "Keep it with your friend." And in Croatia, where we have a war, every little bit of defense is told to the defenders -- listen, I'm sorry, you can't have that weapon, we have to disarm you. I think the records of such a weapon and the legalisation of such a weapon would create so-called. Weapon records. Because if you have 10 illegal rifles, you can't just sell those guns because the police can come and ask – sir, where are those guns? However, this very fact that the war weapon cannot be legalized has led to people having weapons of illegal number one. Number two, the state has no idea where that weapon is. And number three, then trade with that weapon. And we know that the Balkan route is the Balkan area from which the weapons go west. And it's obvious for what reason. Because it's a weapon in itself illegal and people, if someone offers them money, he knows how to watch, they can't legally own it, there's no sign that he's ever given that weapon, etc. And in the end, we come to a situation, that this weapon that cannot be legalized is traded with it. A colleague from the HSS gave a very good warning to the next thought, anyone who has a gun license and owns it, he must be very careful of his behavior. Because for domestic violence or any other act and in this direction, that is, with a violent element, it becomes certain, i.e. The possibility, i.e. the likelihood that the police will disarm him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95813	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the closing statement was requested by a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The debate on the Law on supply, possession of weapons of citizens, counterpart Pernar has been here twice, persistently trying to focus on events from the spring of 1990, so he went in the opposite direction of curricular reform. In fact, there history professors go to requalify themselves as IT professors, and now Mr. Pernar is trying to requalify himself as a professor of history, it's not exactly on the trail of his previous action. However, without being irresponsible to what Mr. Pernar said, the debate on the determination of the circumstances and the guilt of the state and political bodies of the Socialist Republic of Croatia for the confiscation of weapons from the territorial defence of Croatia by 30 May 1990 has already been carried out in this House. It was conducted in the investigation committee in 1999 and in October 1999, therefore, at the end of the term of office of that HDZ government, the Croatian Parliament also adopted a report on the work of the 1990 investigative committee and I call on Mr Pernar to read this report when it is already trying in this way, which is directly to be indirectly accounted for with the SDP, i.e. not even with the SDP but with its first president, Ivica Racan. So HDZ is '99. Just before the multilateral elections in 2000, he already tried to deal with Ivica Racan, as he did, we saw from the results. Two months. After that, Ivica Racan and then the coalition defeated HDZ in the elections. But then the representatives of the opposition parties said something else, that Ivica Racan was responsible for disarmament of Croatia, from the weapons of territorial defence, exactly to the extent to which Franjo Tudjman was responsible, which allowed the weapons from Kasan JNA to be safely transported from Croatia. The next time you mention it, also say it for historical truth... And it's Mr. Pernar, if you like, we can once again make an investigative committee about it or any other historical about it, but in this way, which you did today, which is, I'll quote, we have... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Every little bit and fearing a citizen completely unnecessaryly, I don't think it's exactly an honor to you in terms of political action, but it's your choice, so I can't teach you any lessons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wanted to use these five minutes, to mention once again, when this was already a topic, that the Croatian Parliament discussed it, that the court gave the parliamentary majority then and then the opposition, and most of the Croatian people in the 2000 elections, therefore, not two months. Since when did the council discuss it? Whether we should go back to that debate 19 years after that, I don't know, I don't think we should, but we've always been prepared for that kind of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95815	Thank you, Mr. Bauk, we have the final word, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zarko Katic, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95816	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, after more than four hours of debate on the final proposal of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, let me say a few words or answer some questions or claims raised in the debate. Every time, of course, a debate on this kind of law, so the law that regulates the possession of weapons, then, of course, a general security debate in society takes place. As we know, weapons are unfortunately used to commit the most severe criminal acts of murder, attempted murder, serious bodily injury, robbery, etc. And we're all sensitive to that security. According to all indicators, the Republic of Croatia belongs to safe countries. I wouldn't say that what's often heard is that it's our brand, security should be our way of life, something as normal as the air we breathe in, but of course, we should all be together and fight to make our contribution. The role of the Ministry of the Interior in this is of course important, perhaps the largest and the ministry is fully committed to increasing the level of security in our society. This law we've been making is a word, is under these conditions for getting weapons, for getting permits, for approval, for being difficult or for making it easier. We did not particularly want to make it difficult or to make it easier. The conditions were actually the same. We only got these weapons, so we changed the way we proved the conditions for the supply of weapons, and they were, therefore, simplified and reduced by excess administration. We've established that some of the procedures we've been doing haven't given us enough quality information or some news like that famous operational check. And that's why we shut her out of the final bill. However, as some speakers have said, we at the Ministry of the Interior believe that this will give the police more time to deal with key security problems and thus with the problems and criminal acts that arise as a result of the use of weapons. So this isn't the only law that regulates the question of guns. We also have the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons. We have, of course, a criminal law which regulates, in its Article 331, the criminal offence of illicit possession of the manufacture or purchase of weapons and explosive substances that it is intended to provide for, so that the criminal offence is sanctioned up to 3 years in prison and, of course, the safeguard measure of confiscation of such weapons. We believe that this way these legal changes will be more time to investigate, discover and confiscate the illegal weapon you were talking about here. I wouldn't speculate on the numbers of that illegal weapon, but he certainly does. We know and I'm in the introduction and I said how many guns were returned, we know that it wasn't all returned. We continue to appeal to citizens who have such a weapon that, as part of our action, the name of which is, of course, indicative, less weapons, less tragedy to return it without sanctions because when they start to reconciling crimes, when research begins then, of course, such a gun owner, illegal weapons will not be able to be called without, to return without sanctions, but will then be subject to sanctions that I just quoted. The directive we are harmonising with, Mrs Pusic said that it makes conditions difficult, it first and foremost balances the conditions in 28 Member States, so these conditions for the supply of weapons were not the same, of course, in all Member States and they were stricter somewhere, somewhere lighter. And in terms of, above all, health skills, of course, in all countries is the condition that a person is not punished, that he is not inclined to commit crimes. So now these conditions are trying to equalise in all Member States. Just a few words about health skills. Yes, and here's the amendment, and we'll be showing ourselves about it. It is clear that there is a life-long chronological age when it is justified to assume that, from some age, human health is generally starting to deteriorate more seriously and this working group for lawmaking felt that it was about a period of 70 years. But it was therefore put in place and could have been lower or higher age, it is not the Holy Scriptures, we will think about it once more and give it, we will manifest ourselves on these amendments and on the demands that health skills are not limited to a certain age but rather by a really effective state, by the health condition of the owner, or the owner of the weapon. I announce that we will cooperate with other institutions and that is the job of all of us who work in public services, primarily in this case with the Ministry of Health and we will invite them to a meeting and inform them in detail about and their obligations because they must adopt certain regulations. We would like to announce that we will talk to the Association of Doctors of Family Medicine because we are not in favour of something being prescribed in the law without being well-communicated and that the bonds of the law are not informed of the new law. Of course, it has been a fundamental principle since Roman times that ignorance of the law has hurt but we think that good communication and conversation can only improve law enforcement. Here's how much I'd like for now. The amendments will be made by the Proposer and will be presented and defended when the bill is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95817	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Zarka Katic, for this final word. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Katic, I will take this opportunity to once again say that we have submitted one 13 amendments to the bill as a SDP representative club. These are the amendments spoken of by counterpart Ranko Ostojic. I appeal to you to reconsider this until the vote itself, so that in 15 days you accept this part in particular means that it refers to the collector's weapons and to the trade in collector's weapons, or we have put forward a proposal for a solution not to incapacitate that weapon permanently but only temporarily so as not to lose value. And we think it's a reasonable proposal, so I urge you to think again about our proposal until the vote itself and accept the amendments or that you, as Government, make amendments with similar solutions. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95819	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Do you have a colleague Katic's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95820	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative came to me and I think it's about 4, 5 amendments not 15 that you just mentioned. Well, then if that's all of them we've studied and we'll give an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95821	Thank you for your response. With this, we have exhausted all the debates scheduled for this agenda. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior Mr. Zark Katic and the Head of the Interior Ministry Mr. Miroslav Maretic for the reasons. And we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95822	Final proposal of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, second reading, P.Z. No. 364. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The rules of procedure tabled by the amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I therefore propose to vote to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 108 for and 9 abstentions, that we have decided to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I now ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments submitted. With us is Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go. So we have two amendments. Please make them, you can explain them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95823	Thank you very much. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. So, I'm based on an art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, addressed two amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. I'll read it in Art. 1. 15.St. 1. is also amended as follows: a person who wishes to obtain a weapon shall be obliged to submit a request for the authorisation for the purchase of a weapon by a written declaration to give consent to her chosen physician of primary health care, as well as any other doctor who has knowledge of the change in her medical condition affecting the medical ability to possess a weapon reported by the competent authority, and that the competent authority may request information from her chosen physician of primary health care or any other doctor about her medical condition. A brief explanation. In the debate on the final proposal of the Law, and this provision was highlighted as discriminatory to persons over 70 years of age. Therefore, following further examinations and amendments made and what has been presented in the debate, an explanation of the amendments is accepted and it is proposed to abolish the obligation of gun owners to carry out medical checks every 5 years after 70 years of life. It is therefore proposed that the provision be made. 15, St. 1 which prescribes such an obligation to replace with an amendment a provision that would oblige a person who wishes to obtain a weapon to submit a request for the authorisation for the supply of a weapon with a declaration that consent may be given by his chosen doctor or any other doctor who has knowledge of the disease to supply such information to the PU or to the station. We believe that in this way, the person who submits the request will be immediately informed that its health status will be checked regularly and that the chosen doctor will have the basis for the delivery of this information to the competent body. P.O. or station. Amendment 2? The second amendment is actually related to the first amendment. [[Intruder Jandroković: You can do others.]] We could not accept the amendments submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party because... The reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, Amendment 2 reads in Article 2. 22, pages 1 and 2 are deleted. The words ‘in paragraph 1 of this Article’ shall be deleted in the present Article 3. The words ‘in paragraph 3’ shall be replaced by the words ‘in accordance with Article 3’. In view of the fact that the Government has put the 1st amendment into article. 15, St. 1st, it was necessary to do so. 22, comply with that, with that provision. Therefore, this amendment is also proposed as I read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95824	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I will close the debate and put the first amendment of the government to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 80 votes for and 21 abstentions have been accepted by the first amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am now voting on the 2nd amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 77 for and 25 abstentions were accepted by the 2nd amendment of the Government, and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. We are now moving to a statement on the other amendments submitted by the Party's Representatives' Club of Labour and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives and Representative Marko Vesligaj, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, the HSS Representatives' Club and the SDP Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would now once again ask the Secretary of State of State at the MUP, Zarko Katic, to show about these amendments. Amendment one, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95825	Amendment 1 of the SDP Representatives Club to Art. 6th, St. 1st Point. 11. Not accepted. During the debate on the adoption of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending the Directive on the control of the supply and possession of weapons of the Republic of Croatia, it was on issues which were the subject of the debate concerning the possibility of possession of weapons of categories A that only museums should be excluded from the general provision of weapons of category A and that only they could be allowed to supply and own weapons of category A. Therefore, both in the Explosive Substances Act and the production and transport of weapons carried out in N.N. No. 70/17 prescribed that museums with extremely old weapons can collect other weapons that are no longer manufactured and that are not used by armed forces and police, including the weapons of category A. For the purposes of the progress of these reasons, the final proposal of this law, the person is allowed to collect arms of category A only provided that such weapons are disabled for use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95826	Obviously, fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95827	Thank you very much, President. So, Mr Katic is not true that this provision is contrary to EU directives, because some member states exist, there is a possibility that, which we have proposed, this is about the collection weapon collected by certain collectors, which has great value because of their age and history and all that. So such pieces of weapons sometimes reach the values of up to 100-200 thousand euros, for example, per piece, and in our legal proposal that you propose, when this weapon is permanently disabled, it becomes a simple piece of iron and loses, significantly loses its value and is worth about 100-200 euros. With our proposal, we propose that such a weapon, which then moves from category A into category C, be temporarily disabled as it once was, because then it would not lose its value to that extent, but could later even be put into service and also be known by some EU member states, and that is not contrary to this Directive at all. And we believe that this proposal corrects this one injustice and material loss of collectors and therefore calls for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95828	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now let's go to the second amendment, the Advocacy Bridge Club of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95829	Second amendment to Art. Paragraph 1 of point 12 shall not be deleted. In fact, there is no agreement at EU level on the use of silencers, shootings, and this is still under discussion in many countries. Some countries, a complex country like the Federal Republic of Germany, have not even been resolved in the same way in all federal countries. Some federal countries allow it, some don't. Since this issue has not been resolved in all countries in an adequate manner, we believe it is now too early to accept this amendment and the government refuses this amendment, it does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95830	It's obvious, comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95831	It is clear to us that everything we propose, HDZ and this government accept some sort of delay. It means that everything we propose, too, is actually too hard for this government, but the trends in the EU are clear and they are, that the use of silencers is actually a growing trend due to the protection and environment and human health. There are major hearing damages due to the use of firearms and I think the government of the Republic of Croatia should have accepted this amendment. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95832	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 3. Amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95833	This amendment deals with the same issue, so with the same explanation, the government does not accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95834	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95835	Hearing damage caused by exposure to excessive noise is a serious problem in today’s world. Many people have suffered hearing damage due to exposure to gunshots from firearms. This applies to the angle. to sportsmen, hunters, police officers, soldiers, security guards and anyone using firearms and requesting a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95836	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 4. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95837	Amendment No. 4. The government doesn't accept. For reasons of security, we remain in order to ban the supply and supply of weapons of category A to natural persons without exception. So, even when it comes to sportsmen, but therefore, we're talking about them as physical persons. However, under the Law on arms and ammunition, weapons can be purchased by clubs as associations of citizens as legal persons, held in an adequate manner in their premises and shooters registered in a particular association, a particular club, can use such weapons, but therefore, they cannot own it and have it at home. So, the amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95838	Obviously, fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95839	Thank you, Mr. President. This is about weapons that under the existing law in category B and angle. It is about the firearms, and according to the new bill, it passes into category A and de facto it can no longer be held in that way as you have said, and in fact there is an injustice of already acquired rights for the people who, by the current law, have guns B and under the new law, will cross them into category C and kill us with our amendment we wanted to correct that injustice because, according to your current proposal of the final law, these people will either return their weapons to police stations or surrender to the shooting societies or they will lose their rights and that is why we have given this amendment and we are asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95840	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 5, Advocacy of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95841	The Government does not accept this amendment but has accepted the meaning and purpose of this amendment and has incorporated it into its amendment so that this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95842	Thank you, my friend, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95843	The amendment we adopted, Amendment 1 to the Government, is actually a matter of reason that the government has accepted what we have proposed to abolish the age-limit for the obligation and health review, so there is no need for us to vote on our amendment because it is an integral part of the Government's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95844	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 6 of the House of Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95845	This amendment is also not accepted by the Government, but this matter is regulated in our opinion sufficiently high-quality with the Government's amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95846	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95847	Thank you. We wanted to help the pensioners with this amendment, so over 70 years of age whose pensions are small, which I hope you'll increase once. Since the government has incorporated the meaning of our amendment through its amendment, we are withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95848	Thank you. We're going to amendment number seven of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95849	The government doesn't accept Amendment No. 7. In particular, the provisions of Article 19(6) of this Act have just been prescribed that in cases where a request for authorisation for the supply of arms is submitted by a person holding a valid armed list, the competent authority will verify by official duty that they fulfil the conditions that I do not now list them all here. Since it has not been punished, according to the Penal Code, by law, whether there are conditions for holding arms and health skills, so the party itself will not have to apply any further evidence of compliance with the conditions, all will be obtained by official means.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95850	Here you go, colleague Lenart, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95851	Thank you. Through this article of the law, it is not decadently written and clear and our desire through this amendment was to make it clear that police officers might be able to deal with other affairs rather than waste time on this insignificant job since a man who already has weapons does not need to check it again. I say, because of the ambiguities written here, we've proposed this amendment, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95852	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment 8 of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95853	The government does not accept this amendment but has regulated this matter in the spirit of this amendment, so I believe with it a substance incorporated into the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95854	Here you go, colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95855	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, we are withdrawing our amendment, of course, because it is, in substance, more recently arranged with the amendment of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95856	Amendment number 9 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95857	This amendment is accepted by the Government and we believe that it leaves more opportunities for gun collectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95858	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment number 10 of Agent Mark Wealligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95859	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Namely, these types of weapons fall under category C and already the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons and Regulations, which is the Regulation on the method of testing and marking of firearms that entered into force on 20 June of this year, the possibility that all the owners of this weapon within a year, this weapon shall be marked and it shall be legal. So all existing weapons that existed in the day of entry into force of the law and regulations can be legalized and in the future they will not be allowed to build weapons in domestic activity, but that does not mean that old traditional weapons, so the replicas of that weapon are actually not old enough to be made. There are legal persons and craftsmen who can get the authority to build these kind of weapons, we already have such legal persons and therefore will still be able to produce traditional weapons in an old-fashioned way, let's say. Therefore, the government does not accept this amendment by legislator Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95860	Here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95861	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I wouldn't exactly agree, I'm in the amendment actually suggested that we expand the scope of the mandates to obtain weapons of category C, so to associations or organizations that use traditional firearms on solemn occasions, it's a tradition that these weapons are actually domestically done, it's a tradition that even happens to be made in domestic labor and here, throughout Croatia we have associations, organizations that deal with Bakra, Ogulin, Dubrovnik, of course my Krapina-Zagorje County where we have 30-ac associations that deal with this single tradition, very people are very proud of that and in fact this amendment we could regulate and give one incentive to those people, we often call them at the solemn sessions of their cities, municipalities, municipalities, counties. So we must appreciate our tradition and this amendment can regulate this, I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95862	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the 11th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95863	The government does not accept this amendment. The explanation is to stop as much as for the previous amendment. I remind you once again that Article 9. The rules on testing and marking of firearms are all existing old weapons, traditional weapons can be marked, legalised and will not be allowed in the future to be made in domestic work but only for authorised manufacturers of such weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95864	Here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95865	Well, I'm glad you're saying that it can be legalized, but I've proposed an amendment that's more important than that first amendment where it's actually legally regulated this one gap that's been created for the reasons of this weapon that was produced in domestic labor and already several years ago there was an option that lasted a few months where even if I could legalize that word weapon at all, it's very difficult to use, the weapon is something that still in the subconscious people are causing some kind of... Yes, of course it is used for the murder, unfortunately, this is a traditional weapon I repeat once again used on solemn occasions, loud shot of some tradition and Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's every day and we hear a bitter cannon. They're numerous, I repeat once again the associations and organizations that use this loud shot and that we're actually marking our history. And I wanted here to actually just make it possible by law for a year where all the owners of these weapons, all these associations, to allow members of these associations to legalize it, meaning traditional firearms. Here's the vote I'm asking for on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95866	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. Amendment No. 12. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95867	The government does not accept this amendment. In fact, we honestly didn't understand him best because he points out that police officers and other people would be above the law so that they could carry weapons and be in possession of weapons and when they're under the influence of alcohol but drugs are absolutely not true, all the regulations that regulate the work of police officers prohibit a policeman from being in the service under the influence of alcohol and drugs. In the event that someone is drunk or under the influence of drugs, he, of course, takes his superior to him and checks him and cannot go into service. The same applies to other persons and the Act on the Protection of Persons and Assets and the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, so that a security guard is not subject to the influence of drugs while doing his job. So this applies equally to all citizens and those who use weapons in the service as well as those who are civilians using weapons on occasion of hunting, shooting, or other activities. We can't accept an amendment like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95868	Thank you. The obvious? No one from the Most Representatives' Club? Then let's vote. Are you asking for a vote? Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 13. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95869	The Government does not accept Amendment No. 13. Since the amendments of the SDP Club that regulate this matter have been accepted, we feel that we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95870	Obviously, fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95871	Thank you, Mr. President. So this amendment regulates the work of arms dealers that allow normal operations, since non-regulatory of certain regulations would direct them to the destruction of weapons. So I'm not quite sure that this amendment that you've accepted regulates this part because this is in the other direction, so we're asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95872	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 14th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95873	This amendment is accepted by the Government, and that is why I have given an explanation of what I have done with the previous amendment. So accepts this in full Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95874	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 15. SDP reps' club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95875	The amendment is not accepted by the Government and the argument is the same as for the first amendment. So everything, when we didn't accept the first, we couldn't accept the amendment no. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95876	Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95877	Yes, this is an amendment that would solve the nomochnik if our first amendment had been accepted, so now its adoption doesn't make any sense, so we withdraw... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95878	Thank you. Amendment No. 16. The SDP counseling club, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95879	The same explanation as the amendment No. 15. Same attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95880	Thank you. Amendment No. 17th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95881	This amendment by the SDP Representatives Club is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95882	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 18. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95883	This amendment shall be rejected with the same explanation as for amendments 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95884	I'm pulling too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95885	Thank you. Amendment No. 19. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95886	The government rejects this amendment with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95887	.../Intruder: Pulling/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95888	Thank you. Amendment No. 20 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95889	The government rejects this amendment with the same explanation as for previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95890	We're pulling the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95891	Thank you. 21st Amendment, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95892	The government rejects this amendment with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95893	.../ Intruder: We're pulling....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95894	Thank you. Amendment No. 22. A club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95895	This amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95896	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And lastly, the 23rd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95897	This amendment is not accepted by the Government with the same explanation as for amendments 20, 21 and the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95898	.../ We're pulling the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95899	Thank you. We've come to an end with the amendments, so we're going to vote on the final draft of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens. Please, let's vote. I thank the Secretary of State. I find that most of the votes are 95 for, 13 abstentions and 6 votes against the passed Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95900	We move to the next item of daily work: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 351; Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate under Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I call on the State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić, to give us an explanation of the proposal for a final law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Biofuels Act for transport was adopted in 2009 and since then it has been amended and updated four times, last time in 2014. In addition to the important additions introduced by the promotion of biofuel production in 2010, the remaining changes were in order to make the implementation and supervision of the law more effective. The amendments to the laws now proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are primarily conditional on amendments to European legislation relating to the production of biofuels. It is in nature to amend two directives, Directive 98/70 on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy. In accordance with European procedures, these amendments were implemented through the adoption of a new so-called ... EU Directives 2015 15 13. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Directive or the Directive on indirect land use change was adopted in 2015 and the implementation of the Directive was extended until September 10, 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of the Directive have been transposed into the Air Protection Act and the remaining remains to be incorporated into the biofuels for transport. The law on biofuels for transport is governed by the production, trade and storage of biofuels and other renewable fuels, the use of biofuels in transport, the adoption of programmes and plans to encourage the production and use of biofuels in transport, the powers and responsibilities for the identification and implementation of the policy to promote the production and use of biofuels in transport and the measures to promote production and use biofuels in transport. The law introduces a new concept through new concepts and definitions related to the use of land and raw materials for the production of biofuels, which includes limits of up to 7% to the use of conventional biofuels, i.e. biofuels of so-called fuel. First generation. Biofuels of the first generation are obtained from olives, sugar culture, cereals and other starch-rich cultures and are grown on areas that could be used for the purposes of the food market or animal food. In order not to have an indirect change in the use of land used for food production, it was necessary to introduce a limit to the maximum quantities of conventional biofuels placed on the market. Amendments and additions to the law have been made and in order to establish a more functional market biofuels. The aim is to establish an offer and demand, including in the continuation of production, biofuels in the Republic of Croatia on market mechanisms. Therefore, a model of the penalization of the biofuelling undertaking is changed to a new one, with the exception of fees for not placing biofuels on the market that already exists, and to pay additional compensation if no greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. This measure should help to establish a system to ensure Croatia's 10% renewable energy target in transport by 2020, which each EU Member State is obliged to meet. In order to succeed and have market effects, the penalisation measures must set well-measured cost of non-compliance with the objectives. In view of the closed cycle of life-cycle fuel, the aim is to achieve market demand among local producers as it reduces greenhouse gas emissions in the distribution of raw materials and produced fuel. Since the 10% target with integrated production limits was first-generation fuel and the minimum share of advanced biofuels present on the market was hard to reach the emphasis on the use of electricity in transport. Thus, the Directive has increased the factors which increase the number of electricity from renewable sources and spent on road transport from 2 and a half now to 5 and in rail transport from 1 increase the factor to 2 and a half. Accordingly, a commitment is made to public transport and rail public service bonds to use exclusively renewable electricity for transport purposes for which clear origin has been issued. The measure is on the trail of the EU transition, where the use of electricity in urban and suburban transport is increased in particular, and rail and intermodal transport is developing. The other amendments and additions relate to the additions to the defined directive, including the definition of advanced fuels, introduce a minimum target of 0.1% of the consumption obligation and advanced biofuels in transport and allow for it to be considered in 2019 depending on the situation on the market. The target percentage of the greenhouse gas emission reduction obligation is introduced in the event of failure, at least 2% reduction by 31 December 2018, at least 3% by 31 December 2019 and at least 6% reduction by 31 December 2020. The notion of a privileged producer is abolished and it is pointed to the promotion of the scientific research development of advanced biofuels. The possibility of transferring biofuels on the market from the previous year to the current year is abolished, since the system is considered to have been stalking and the target must be achieved in 2020. The concept of a small distributor is abolished and all distributors become biofuel bonds on the market, regardless of the quantity. It is also foreseen that the implementing acts define the elements related to the payment of the liability fee. It should be noted that all under the legal acts, i.e. implementing acts, are prepared and these amendments and additions of laws are expected to ensure that the Green Goals are reached by 2020. Between the two readings, there were no amendments and an addition to the bill I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95902	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mr. Ivo Milatić. We have several replicas, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95903	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have now referred to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia regarding the consumption of biofuels in transport or transport by 2020, so I did not understand, do you think that we will meet these obligations and, if not, if so, to what extent will these changes help in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95904	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95905	Dear Parliamentarian, Mr. Dobrovic, we think we'll reach those percentages. True God, we are aware that this is going to be very difficult, but we think that this amendment and the addition of the Law will greatly contribute to this, given that we have brought all the taxpayers together, that we have finally done everything that has not been done in the previous years. All bonds already know how much they will pay in this year's fee and we know that in the next year through the Environment Fund, energy efficiency will again be directed towards meeting these transport targets. So we have reason for optimism, and we think that this Law will greatly help to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95906	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95907	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you why we don't have solar power plants anymore, and we do bio-energys that show they don't have enough raw materials, and as far as we can see, we have a lot of sun in the Republic and why we're not working on making as many solar power plants as possible, to allow, since the power plants were OK, but if they have raw materials. I don't think there's enough of them, so I'd like to hear your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95908	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Answer, Secretary of State Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95909	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking, but I don't think this is a question for this law and for this debate that's going on here today, but for that law that was last week on the agenda. You're talking about bio-energys or bio-gas energy, and this is the Bio-fuels Act. So you refer to the law on renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration. So we're only talking about biofuels here. So this is one of the, one of the commitments that the Republic of Croatia has accepted to implement European legislation in the Republic of Croatia, which is to achieve up to 10% of renewable sources in transport. So one of the renewable sources in transport was fuel. So this law is based exclusively on biofuels and clearly also on renewable energy sources from these sources in transport, and this is another topic for second reading, when it comes to second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95910	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95911	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what I would like to stress is that I absolutely understand the need for a renewable energy system and a correction of greenhouse gases as well as the necessity of fuel. But also, always keep in mind the fact that agriculture here is most important to us from the sphere of food production and it is good to have existing restrictions. But we also believe that, in addition to restrictions, we can encourage both production and investment in biofuels 2. 3rd generation, therefore, I am also interested in whether new rules will define incentives in all segments. So also in the production of raw materials and encourage the manufacturer and encourage the distributor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95912	I thank my colleague Mikulić. Answer, Secretary of State Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95913	Thanks for asking. I don't know if you've been paying attention to my exposure. We hereby abolish incentives to biofuel production because we simply believe that this whole production has developed so much in the Republic of Croatia and in the environment that it can be maintained on market grounds. What is important for the production of this Law, which is that we allow this Law to make the system work because it has ultimately not yet functioned, it has only been practically functioning since this year. As soon as the system is operational and the suppliers are literally forced to buy biofuels, this will also create demand for biofuels within the Republic of Croatia, thus automatically giving local producers the opportunity to sell to someone. What's been mourning so far, you've had a commitment, and no one's forced that commitment to a thread and then simply the manufacturers have failed. That's not gonna happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95914	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95915	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you have now imposed a certain obligation on public transport to ensure that all transporters with biofuels or renewables must be responsible for electricity. What I'm curious about is how you think it's going to increase, I mean, there's an obligation of 0.1% that I understand well, to companies or those who use biofuels. If 10% is a commitment by 2030 because you think it's realistic to happen unless production is stimulated to reduce the price of fuel and become accessible to those that are commercial. And on the other hand, I wonder if you're thinking of banning, like some countries and cities in Europe banned the use of diesel? So that's something that might reduce the use of greenhouses... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95916	Time's up, so now, if the secretary of state wants to answer, he can. Here you go. .../ Intruder Maras, three seconds have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95917	Thank you. We have introduced a commitment that public transport, meaning tram and railways must use energy from renewable energy sources as a question of electricity. And as far as biofuels are concerned, we all use biofuels if the guy who sells fuel mixes them up and under this law is obliged to mix them up. So biofuels will be, not only in public transport, but in the entire transport of the Republic of Croatia, fuel will be mixed. And that's why we think that the sublegal acts that have obviously existed so far and they haven't been implemented, and now they're already being implemented by old sublaws and under new laws, that control system is being continued and we're going to do it in the ministry, we're confident that we're going to achieve that goal that we're being set. The truth is, we're a little late. There's your dilemma. But I hope we can reach him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95918	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95919	Thank you very much. Croatia must have 10% biofuels on the market, 7% can produce. So the simple question is how many Croatia produces crops on agricultural surfaces to reach these 7% and what subsidies are to farmers on empty land because someone can deal with this and earn money. And it's right here, how many squares are planted in the Republic, how many areas are used to reach these 7% crop crops for biofuels, to produce biofuels? Do you have that information and do you have any information about how we subsidize farmers to deal with this production that is very important and very important and we also need to reach these standards that are imposed on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95920	Thank you, too. Will you answer it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95921	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, the incentives for biofuels have already been abolished for many years at the time of Minister Linic. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, farmers, as part of their activities through agricultural activities, receive incentives that they receive per hectare. As you know, this esteemed House has also passed the Law on those patrols, meaning the possibility of planting cultures to produce biofuels. So in that part, farmers have incentives like all other farmers according to the surface and everything else that can be obtained by positive regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95922	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, the incentives for biofuels have already been abolished for many years at the time of Minister Linic. As far as agriculture itself is concerned, farmers, as part of their activities through agricultural activities, receive incentives that they receive per hectare. As you know, this esteemed House has also passed the Law on those patrols, meaning the possibility of planting cultures to produce biofuels. So in that part, farmers have incentives like all other farmers according to the surface and everything else that can be obtained by positive regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95923	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the ministry. So we have on the table the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport or Transport. Maybe it was missed in the opening address to say where this all belongs. Namely, Croatia is also a signator of the Paris Agreement and this is all part of a comprehensive effort to stop the rise of greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere. And Europe is now the leader of this fight, we know that... big players, internationally, that there have been major changes in the last year, two. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is a rather clear and firm, therefore scientific consensus that this should be done. And so these biofuels are important, so the transport sector is a very important sector and therefore it should also experience a change in terms of reducing the consumption of specific fuels or increasing the share of carbon neutral fuels. They're definitely biofuels. So we have this first generation. The problem to which this directive is referred, which we are also faithfully transposing, poses a threat to the problem of agricultural production for human consumption and livestock, is somewhere far away from us, given that we are a country with a huge potential for production and so on. So, as far as we're concerned, we could've left it alone, but we're good at carrying it. However, we often have some fences and some fears and fears, so I remember the debate of the Law on, these are short-circuited cultures where it also went restrictively to prevent some major growth and in fact it should be done vice versa, we need to use the huge areas at our disposal and be the leader of Europe in this regard. And it's a shame we have those reserves, I don't know what we're afraid of. Okay, here it goes to reduce the share of primary these fuels, so it's biodiesel, bioethanol, so I don't know these cultures of standard and it's going to go to that advanced, secondary as it's already called and as you call it. It's quite right to waste fat and these substances, oils, they use, so they convert into fuel. So there's no problem at all, that's all to accept, I think the whole law is to accept. And also an increase in the energy factor consumed in the transport sector and produced from renewable energy sources. So there are factors that multiply this energy because it really needs to be multiplied, given that many conversions of energy that always cost through efficiency are avoided. But here I wouldn't go any further, and I'm only going to show one fear that I'm afraid there's one pointy approach here, so now there's one sector that's been fueled by transport, and there's no point in considering it, and there's not a wide range of activities that this is an important part that goes along with agreeing and launching activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Later on, we're going to have here, and we have the Energy Efficiency Act, and it's also connected to it, and later on, we have a Montreal agreement, which is already based on this '78 international convention. I guess the year that also touches greenhouse gases, this time not carbon, so not CO2 from the carbon cycle or balance sheet, but from the cooling substances. But here is so much, the law is in principle to support, of course, with the hope that the Croatian policy is losing this reservation that we copy from some where this reservation is justified and that there is a systematic, horizontal connection between sectors and that it is a strong driver because these obligations are not necessarily just obligations, they are also a developmental chance, not to talk about the refinery in Sisak which we have seriously considered to become one important production centre just as fuel and then other countries in our environment are subsidising their obligations by buying biofuels in Croatia and not this way the suppliers will be mandatory if there is no production, they will import it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95924	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Totgergeli in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95925	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biofuels for Transport. So these amendments to the legislation that the Government puts before us today and proposes, above all, are conditional upon amendments to the European legislation relating to two directives, to the Directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and to the Directive on the adoption of the use of renewable energy. In accordance with European procedures, these amendments were implemented through Directive 2015/1513 and this Directive on indirect land change was adopted in 2015 and was implemented by the State until 10 September 2017. The provisions of the directive have been transposed into the Law on Air Protection and remains to be incorporated into the Biofuels for Transport Act. Well, let me get this straight. So, these 7% biofuels in total fuel are not the goal that we need to achieve but is the condition that the first-generation fuel can be mixed in fuel at all, which we use up to a maximum of 7%, which is because in certain EU countries there is a concern that the agricultural areas that can be used to produce food are used to produce bio-fuels from cereals, oils, those cultures that are rich in starch. So it's not that we need to reach 7% of the first generation's biofuels in the total fuel that we use, but that's the limit to which it can be essentially fuel for the first generation. And our goal is to have 10% in all the fuels we use to transport from renewable energy sources. Therefore, amendments and additions to the law have been made and in order to establish a more functional market was fuel, the aim is to establish an offer and demand for an inclusive continuation of biofuel production in the Republic of Croatia and on market mechanisms. It is therefore changed by placing biofuels on the market which, in addition to fees for not placing biofuels on the market which already exists, will also be subject to additional compensation if the greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced. So, this measure, as I have already said, aims to establish by 2020 a system that will provide Croatia with a 10% renewable energy target in transport and, of course, all other EU countries have this goal. In order to succeed and have market effects, the penalisation measures must set well-measured cost of non-compliance with the objectives. In view of the closed cycle of life span fuel, the aim is to boost demand on the market among local producers as it reduces greenhouse gas emissions in the distribution of raw materials and fuel production. When we look at what it looked like in the Republic of Croatia over time, how the production was fueled then somewhere in 2009 only started with the production of biofuels, it was produced about 4000 tonnes a year to reach some peak of 40,000 tonnes in 2012 and then in 2014 it started to fall because of the abolished incentives and in 2015 we reduced to 17 to today. concluded in 2017, they had about 400 tonnes of biofuel produced and that is. from waste edible oil. When we talk about manufacturers of biofuels, therefore, there are technical rules that should be respected, which is that all those who put their plants in operation after 5.10.5. should ensure that the biofuels produced have 60% less to produce greenhouse gases than we have in conventional fuels, sharps that we use, and those plants that were installed before that 5.10. had to meet a reduction in greenhouse gases of 35%, with them having to be upgraded, i.e., to raise production levels, production quality, in a way that has satisfied a reduction of 50% of greenhouse gases from 1 January 2018. So they have to produce biofuels that will have 50% less greenhouse gases than classic fuel. Therefore, with the aim of strengthening monitoring, meeting the obligations, placing the prescribed quantities of biofuels on the market and introducing an environmental compensation, unless the prescribed procedure does not reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in life-cycle, the supply of liquid fuel and energy will create conditions in which the biofuelling bonds will be placed on the market, and thus are expected to develop the market and demand for biofuels, which will create sustainable conditions for the continuation of biofuel production in the Republic of Croatia, and hence, this bill, such as the HDZ Club will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95926	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, first Mr. Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95927	Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. It is clear that this is a good law, a debate on biofuels for transport and a clear situation in which they are, and these are global warming and CO2 emissions and the entire battle of Europe and the world, to reduce the amount of CO2 and thus reduce the problems of global warming and fuel is certainly important in this sense, so it is natural that we have adopted this directive and that we are harmonising it with our legislation. This is about first-generation biofuels and certainly, as Col. Dobrović said, perhaps it's not so current for us and we don't have that much first-generation fuel, but I've come clean for one reason, to think about it, maybe not in this law, but the problem we have on the coast with forest fires. It is clear to you that forest fires occur solely because it is completely unprocessed and agricultural land and this is not agricultural, but it has a huge amount of mass, and maybe you should think about it, to encourage the production of biofuels, precisely from the mass, one huge amount of mass, then you would be doing a double-use job, because, only normally there is a problem which is large quantities, and abandoned land is privately owned and that it is not easy to enter private property but under the Law on the municipal economy, if someone is not processing their plot or if it is a danger to the neighbor, that then it can be entered into that property and that it should be thought and that I have also reported. That we should think about, how there would be mass, which is huge and which makes us big problems with this other problem, which is forest fires, open spaces fires, to see the possibility that potentially interested people are allowed or encouraged to clean up those surfaces and then make a double... It means there's no fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it certainly is, I think it would certainly turn out to be cheaper than planting some of the first-generation fuels, planting those grains and all that, and then it has its own benefits, but I think this is a far cheaper process. Here in this sense I wanted it to remain written, as an idea that cannot be solved through this law, it is clear to me, but to you who are engaged in the energy of Croatia, who are responsible for thinking about then, in order to solve the problems of unprocessed agricultural areas, our forests that are abandoned, especially those who are private, Croatian forests are still concerned, doing averages, doing clean their forests, but private forests are cornered. Absolutely abandoned, and they're a huge problem, because of the impenetrableness, and also because of the dangers they pose for forest fires. And then when you just compare the amount of resources, we spend summers to put out forest fires, how many aviation techniques, to ground forces, and how much damage, how much costs, if those costs were successful on this side, then we'd do a double useful job and maybe create some agricultural surfaces, clean to get someone to take them and to process them. Here, in that sense, I just wanted to give that initiative, to encourage it through this law because I say we have huge amounts of biofuels that could be put into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95928	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95929	Thank you very much. I'm just going to ask questions, because I have a lot of irresponsible questions left, and here's my colleague, Ante Sanader, has made a good proposal because the fact that we need to use fuel by 2020 is 10%. My two, in the replica, issues were basic, how many Croatia has producers and agricultural areas where... Cultures for the production of biofuels or of the first group or of other oils, of waste oils. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That information I didn't get from you, for what? If we have to reach up to 2020 10% on the biofuel market as a post-fossil time, ecologically protecting the entire planet, it's all acceptable, but what benefits do Croatian farmers have or what counterpart Sanader said, he gave some areas that we pay for fires that threaten huge areas, which is why our farmers are not allowed to deal with on those biofuel areas? So we don't have solutions here, we're just going to be importers of biofuels from other countries while our surfaces are empty, abandoned and threatened only by natural disasters, so we don't see that there's any shift in that matter, only what we're going to be major importers. Here you are not giving us a solution, just before fellow Misic asked a great question, but it is not about the subject. Why aren't we using this sun, microsolars? Here's the bridge of the Independents. He proposed a bill on microsolars. The government turned him down. She's unrelated to this topic, but apparently import lobbys at this point are doing their job. We didn't get an answer, I asked the question, how many subsidies and incentives are to people, our farmers who will deal with this plantation activity, the culture that will produce biofuels from the first group. I didn't get that data, I asked, I don't have any relevant data because the only thing you say is that we can produce up to 7%, and 10% we have to as an EU directive, and 10% we have to reach that standard to be in transport consumption to be 10% biofuel. So it's absolutely the only thing that suits import lobbys at the expense of our farmers, our abandoned agricultural areas, I don't know how many in hectares now, but there's data because they don't bloom roses in agriculture, they're no more weeds, they're planted land, they're planted. So there's room for this part. Let us not allow ourselves to import 95 or 100% biofuels but if we need to reach standards because we are working against the interest of the Croatian state. Measures and incentives for the production of biofuel mass must be found here. That's the only way we can get a profit like Croatia. The EU framework will get it coming from Germany, I don't know where we're going to import it, I don't know which import lobby will do it better in the ministry, who will receive more in the pocket, as in all, which is why our agricultural areas are empty. Simply a few questions a few answers are offered on this law, i.e. These EU directives, we are most concerned about EU directives, what will be the effects on the Croatian economy by adopting this law? I didn't get a single answer, and I gave the line. The questions are very simple, I'm going to repeat, write down, how many areas of agriculture do we have planted with this biofuel with these cultures, and how many are we currently producing from these 7% that are by the directive, and now by law? And as much as you consider that encouraging measures,... What are these encouraging measures for farmers, for people who are involved in this production and how many plants do we have, do we have private in the Republic of Croatia that produce biofuels, any first group, any of the agricultural cultures, any of the rest of the various oils of the edible and everything else that comes from biological production from the second group? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are the questions if you answer me because I believe this law can contribute to what my colleague Sanader said not to be threatened by the weeds to be on the land, to be fires, to be the only natural disasters and huge damages, but to be the other way around. That there are areas that will be planted with cultures to produce biofuels, and with that, more people will stay here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95930	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. Mr. Totgergeli's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95931	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Bull, I tried to explain it to you while I was arguing on behalf of the club. So it's not 10% biofuels we're defined, it's 10% fuel from renewable sources. It's also your electrical energy, it's also biogas, that's all that's from renewable energy sources. And as for biofuels, every farmer, and therefore it would not be good to confuse them, which produces an oily rape, will receive the same incentive when they produce an oily tail on their hectare, whether that oily tail later ends up in edible oil or ends up in the production of biofuels, will get exactly the same incentive. So don't confuse them farmers that they won't get incentives if they produce oil rape for biofuels. The same way they're going to get a boost, it's just a question of how many oil tails will end up producing edible oil and how much for biofuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95932	Mr. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95933	Thank you, dear fellow, I've listened to your exposure carefully, and I don't know why it bothers you when you're being questioned, I've seen that you've brought out data written on Wikipedia on biofuels, and I've seen that you've said a few incorrect data about diesel exhaust gasses, bio diesels, which means fossil fuel elevators, that is. Oil and oil from which fuel, so that's where you said a number of incorrect data, which is why you didn't say that for, say, 120 years, it's per kilometre of CO2 from fossil fuels, and 0 is from these fuels, because fossil fuels are made once. So now we can philosophy. But I've asked clear and concrete questions, how much in the Republic of Croatia at the moment is produced, spent the raw materials needed for the first generation, for biofuels. I didn't get the answer. How much we're going to import into being, in the end of this 10% that we have to... or these allowed 7% [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I was just looking for answers, but [[Time, Mr. Bull.]] Okay, thanks. [[Mr. Bulj, Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95934	Excuse the weather, otherwise Mr. Maras is angry. No, the breach of the Rules of Procedure gave the first Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95935	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bull, you're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95936	No, no, you don't have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95937	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95938	238. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95939	So speak falsely, Mr. Bull. When you say what he said, I didn't discuss it. Every time someone tells someone they're lying, it kind of insults a parliamentary representative. [[No, no, no, no, no. Mr. Totgergeli is not in 238. that item doesn't exist in 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95940	There is no such item in 238, Mr. Bull, please. You don't have anything? Okay, we're giving up all of this, but now we're going to move on to the final word, Secretary of State, Mr. Miletic, please. [[Okay, I'm giving up, because you've warned.]] Oh, I'm sorry, there was another replica, I apologize, Mr. Pero Cosic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95941	I thank the President of the Parliament, my colleague Bulj, for asking what will be the benefit of this law for our economy, so the law itself may not benefit, but from its application, certainly all sorts of things. So far, it has been law, but it has not been applied to the extent that it should and has not been punished, certain distributors, who put their oil on sale with an insufficient amount of biogas. But I would not agree with you on subsidising this first category of food production, meaning cereals and of that, but if it is going to be only to these more modern advanced second and third categories, which are not direct food competencies because biofuels should be produced from food waste, from the waste of the process industries and all that we have to worry about today and spend some money, not from food, it should not be subsidized, because that market was fuel, it was subsidized, it was established and I think it should be revived.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95942	Thank you Mr. Cosic, answer Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95943	I agree that from the rest of the food, the oil, that this should be used, and that's generations that are more advanced, in the first generation, it can also, if there's a possibility, and there are areas that we have. However, the issue is the production capacity we have for processing. In view of whether the state has designed to subsidise production, whether it will feel like an economy, we must reach 10% of the directive with this signature. So 10%, and 7% have the ability to produce us. Now is it the first generation or second generation, third or waste food or production directly from the food of these means it's now a question. But the fact is that we don't have any strategy, except that we passed this law and that we're going to have to import, to leave 10%. So the Croatian economy will not have, these are import lobbys will get something, and on the Croatian economy we have nothing to do with this law for now, except to increase imports. Here, briefly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95944	Thank you, Mr Ivo Milatić, on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95945	I would like to thank the MPs and MPs for the debate and, finally, a few facts. So let's clear it up about the whole goal. So the overall goal is 10%, our vision is that in 2020, the total target will be 7% of the fuel, 1% of the advanced fuel, and 2% of the el. Energy from renewable energy sources. That's what we think will happen. I absolutely support Mr Dobrovic's exposure, that it is clear that this is all referred to the Paris Agreement, the winter package, the clean energy package and easy to reduce greenhouse gases, because speaking today in energy, in any sense unrelated to the climate. No more clean energy. It's always connected to the climate. Power factors, of course, are good that we've increased them and they'll help to current as much as possible in traffic. I wouldn't quite agree that there are no broad reductions for, a reduction in greenhouse gases, in terms of at least this section around traffic. We intend, namely, that significant funds, which will be charged, are now due to the failure, because of the penalization, those who have not put on, that those through the environmental protection fund and energy efficiency are again directed towards e-mobility and towards everything that will contribute to the use of renewable energy choices in transport. We are aware that Croatia must think very quickly in terms of both the super Charger and everything else to welcome those electric cars that will come from Europe and that it clearly stimulates that electric cars are bought in Croatia, especially in taxi transport and in all other activities, where possible. As for the esteemed Sanader representative and the proposal that practically forest mass would be used for biofuels, I don't think it might just be easy to implement, but clearly, that it could, but it all depends on laws and sublegal acts, which regulate that activity, I suppose the Forest Act and others, that this could possibly be used as a cutting point for bio-energy, i.e., bio-mass. What your esteemed representative Bulj would say to you, where you insist on asking for an answer that we have in our favor of this law. What's now is the fact that we understand each other. It means in particular 2016/2017. it was not mixed at all, i.e. in minimum quantities the fuel was mixed in the Republic of Croatia and there is... the law and there was a Regulation on compensation and penalization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the Ministry of Energy just happened to be from your party two ministers didn't do it to penalize and do it all. What would happen if we kept doing that? At the very least, we've already been warned that we have to start doing this. At the very least, we got huge fines in million amounts, so the Croatian economy would suffer for sure if we didn't. Second, what's going on on the market now? We have established a detailed list of all the obligations of all the obligors, their commitment for 2017 total amounts somewhere around 165 million kuna. These are the obligations they reported themselves. So 165 million kunas will definitely be charged under this law, that is, one large part of that money will be charged already in this, perhaps at the end of this year and early next year, and those funds should be invested wisely in something that will contribute to the reduction of these, or to the achievement of these objectives. What this law will definitely get is that it will mean now frozen factories, one is in Vukovar, one is in Ozla, and it is still in some place, we have another factory probably now think about starting its production. Unfortunately, I have heard these days that a large Croatian company has requested an offer from the same factory that has also disputed with the Republic of Croatia and has succeeded and settled since the incentive and receipt of significant and financial resources from the Republic of Croatia in terms of the settlement that they have offered a price that is thick above market prices. We cannot as the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you as this esteemed Dom tell someone that he will work beyond market conditions when the fact that our companies should also adapt to that. Among other things, the 7% limit in Europe will contribute that European biofuels are cheaper, but if we have to import fuel then if we import biofuels, the fact will still be cheaper because of what the directive has said and it is no longer 10 more than 7. So we are convinced that this law does not suit any lobbys, this law implements a European directive that we have committed by entering the EU to accept it and we cannot now pretend that we are not in the EU. We in the EU agreed with this law or did not agree he did our best as possible now, we will implement it, we will charge compensation for... , we will charge compensation for greenhouse gas emissions, we will do everything we can to ensure that these funds are maximumly channelled through the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency in improving these objectives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you noticed, this year there have been tenders for the purchase of electric cars and other vehicles, for 2, 3 years they haven't been. The next year will certainly be and it will be more in greater resources because, among other things, we will have those resources from this law. So I wouldn't agree that it won't have a positive effect on us and ours at the end of agriculture. Because exactly what the HDZ colleague said, the fact that we have an ARCOD incentive system, the surfaces know each other. All these surfaces can be targeted in terms of classical food production and can also be targeted for the production of biofuels. On that behalf, I thank you for your debate and ask that this law be supported in order to make the sublegal acts ready to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95946	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95947	Thank you very much. I didn't get a single answer and I'm replicating where you said you had two ministers. So you've made it from a renewable source, when you're talking about biofuels and when we talk about renewables with wind power plants, you've done more damage to the Republic than the whole, all the aggressors of history. And you gave wind power subsidies to foreigners through social criteria, at the last session your representative Vrdoljak did so. You're referring to which merchants you've moved from one list to another list to maintain this trade power and benefit from an import lobby as well as this law, as well as this law, this brothel. You favor this brothel to behave in a way that doesn't know who's a seducer and who's a prostitute like my pimp said, and who's a prostitute like my colleague Grumoja said. Big damage done by you. in wind power plants where money goes into foreign pockets [[Thank you, thank you.]] A billion and a half kuna a year. [[You were clear, Mr. Bulj, you were clear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95948	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95949	I thank you for your replica, I just think it's missed about this law, about the law on renewable energy sources, the theme is wind power. But if you're talking to me in terms of supporting this government, I've known that I've been in a coalition with HDZ locally for a long time, so I'm hearty for this coalition and I support it and I think it's good for Croatia and that this government is certainly better than these two governments because I accidentally participated in both of them and were your ministers. And I think this government is making decisions, this government is facing problems. And what I've been forced into and my ministry to bring 10, 12 laws in a year is just proof that someone before me hasn't done anything. We're not such supermen that we're so crazy we have to pass 12 laws. So someone here has not passed the laws and indirectly and directly caused damage to the Republic of Croatia because the pilots, the great pilots, have been removed in a year. So let's not always go to politics. Let's talk real.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95950	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. Who? ... Mr. Bull. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure article, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95951	33. ... Takes care of the protection of the President, you need to worry about the protection of the right to fulfil the duties of a parliamentary representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm absolutely.../ The speaker doesn't understand. Art. 33. where absolutely, find that item, Mr. Bukarica, you know it, but you just don't care to find it because Branko Bačić didn't give you the signal to find or find it. And it's not nice to mess with your tongue... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here, article 33, just a second, here. Read it, secretary sea...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95953	No, no, you read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95954	Here. So, the president, the chairman, means article 33, so there's a lot of them now that I don't count, on page 28, he's worried about protecting the rights and fulfilment of the duties of representatives. [[Intruder Radin: She's worried about?.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95955	Wait, wait, take care of it? ... Who can hurt you, Mr. Bull? ... [[You can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Bulj: Protect the rights of MPs.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95956	You must protect, most of all you must protect the minority, you as chairman of parliament You must protect the minority, not work in the interest of the majority. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] They're protecting the minority in parliament. Parliamentaryism is of the minority and of the majority, and you once stand for the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95957	It is. Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, please. Thank you very much, but it's not, but... 33. Don't talk about it. You said your opinion, Mr. Secretary of State replied, since he was also involved in your governments, so there's some comparative analysis he gave you, a comparative analysis and we're done here. I mean, it's been in the record, everyone can read, and everyone can come to their conclusion, and that's why at this point I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95958	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 351. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 92 for and 1 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biofuels for Transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95959	What do we have now? That? We now move to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act First reading, P.Z.E. No. 420. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you have seen, first reading means applying these provisions regarding first reading. The debate was conducted by three committees, for legislation, for the economy, for environmental protection and for nature. Would the proposing representative, again Mr Ivo Milatić, want to give an additional explanation as state secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95960	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Law on Energy Efficiency of 2014 transposed the guidelines of Directive 2012/27 of the European Parliament and of the Council since October 2012 on energy efficiency in Croatian legislation. The efficient use of energy is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, so the first energy law in this area of the Law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption was passed in 2008. Under this Act, a national programme for energy efficiency and action plans have been developed to refer to final energy consumption. However, the issue of energy savings is further potentiated by the adoption of a new directive in 2012, where the area of regulation has been extended from more efficient consumption to efficient energy transmission and production, and additional obligations have been introduced by Member States. This resulted in the adoption of a new Energy Efficiency Act in 2014 whose amendments and additions we are proposing today. The law therefore regulates the legislative framework in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Directive regarding the efficient use of energy, and in particular the part relating to public bodies' obligations relating to the implementation of energy efficiency measures. This requires the adoption of plans at local, regional and national level to improve energy efficiency and implement them. The obligations and energy efficiency measures, obligations of the energy regulator, transmission system operator, distribution system operator and energy market operator related to the transmission and distribution and distribution of energy are prescribed. In 2014, therefore, a combined system of alternative measures and the energy distributor obligation system was introduced, which was expected to achieve energy savings in direct and final consumption. The savings by 31.12.2020 relate to a reduction in energy consumption compared to the 2006 reference year by 20%. This main objective of regulating the energy savings obligation for the Republic of Croatia is to achieve a cumulative savings of 54.25... How is Directive 2012/... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on energy efficiency, one of the cornerstones of the implementation of European energy policy, the EC opened an investigation into the proper implementation and application of its provisions and assessed that there are certain possible discrepancies in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have been informed of this by letter of notification of 4 July 2017. On the basis of the content of that document and the identified discrepancies which could lead to the primary implementation of the mandatory objectives, but also the functional implementation of energy efficiency measures and monitoring of savings, the amendments and additions to the Law have been approached. The Commission has put particular emphasis on the transposition of a directive concerning the establishment of a functional, mandatory system of implementation of energy efficiency measures by energy market participants. Amendments and additions to the Law shall take place in the direction of the arrangements of the integrated and comprehensive system of energy service obligations defined in Article 7 of the Directive. In particular, the introduction of mandatory energy savings schemes for participants in the energy market. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Directive, each Member State shall introduce a system of energy efficiency obligations for energy market participants to achieve the cumulative energy saving objective by 31 December 2020. Member States may combine the obligation system with alternative policy measures including national energy efficiency programmes, but this does not exclude the introduction of mandatory schemes for energy market participants. In the national energy efficiency action plan, the Republic of Croatia has defined a combined approach, i.e. part of the savings achieved through the obligation system and part through alternative policy measures. While the alternative policy system is being implemented in a quality way, the system of mandatory savings schemes has not been adequately established and this should be achieved by these amendments and by additions to the laws. Due to delays in the establishment of an energy efficiency obligation system in the years 2014 to 2018, it is not likely that the cumulative objective of saving will be achieved within a short time period without it becoming an additional burden for end-users of energy. In view of the cumulative way of calculating the target, in order to compensate for delays, an extremely high investment would be required within a very short time period, which would mean a very high pressure on the parties of bonds and final customers of energy, and enforcement would be questionable in view of technical constraints. Amendments to the law establish a system of obligations that will have a long-term perspective and encourage investment in energy efficiency also adapted to opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. This law ensures the implementation of Regulation 2017/13 69... The application of rules governing the technical requirements to be met by products placed on the market or made available on the market is harmonised by this law with the law on the suspension of the validity of the energy sector monitoring and business centre, the provisions of the Directive on the reporting of progress and the achievement of national targets on energy efficiency, the public sector duties are clarified, the provisions of the Directive on the insurance, transparency and information obligation are transposed, the relations in the energy impact contract are detailed, the requirements of the Directive relating to the content of the energy performance contract are transposed, the provisions of the Directive for energy saving purposes on the basis of the estimated area of the public sector building fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the amendments and additions, market surveillance by the competent ministry and the infringement provisions shall also be regulated. The implementation of the solutions proposed by this bill is expected to result in the achievement of energy savings targets in final energy consumption. It is also expected that the establishment of a system with a long-term perspective will create sustainable conditions for the development of the system and for the achievement of savings, and in accordance with the Directive and EU law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95961	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95962	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is evident from your and this presentation that we only make technical changes to these amendments and amendments to the law in order to comply with EU directives. However, what concerns me, and you said so yourself, is that we also have a national energy efficiency programme, that the units of local self-government were obliged to do their own action plans, but we do not have enough organised control measures and you are now realizing that because of the delay in establishing a mandatory energy efficiency system from 2014 to 2018, it is not likely that the cumulative objective of saving will be achieved. The fact is that we are all behind schedules and that we do not meet the conditions we signed through action plans and comply with EU directives. Now I'm asking a question because I have a little time, article 13, that is. Article 9 of the old 13 obligations to be transferred to local self-government units relating to payment Delays [[I'm sorry, Mr. Demetlika...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95963	Mr. Demetlika, I'm sorry, time. Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95964	As far as I know, there's no obligation to be late. We will only improve by implementing acts to speed up, or strengthen the system of this other system which is not alternative, which is a system of obligations. We now had distributors covering 34% of total energy supplies. Now that we're going to the merchants and suppliers, we're covering 74% of the energy delivered, and we expect this part that's not public and local self-government where you and the state have practically done more or less of all of the obligations. So this second part of us is problematic and it's got this law that's going to make it work as much as possible. So there's no concern for you since you already as a unit of local self-government have done a lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95965	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95966	Secretary, we're talking about energy efficiency, about directives. Well, there's no better energy efficiency, but when it comes to HNS, then efficiency and... So we made a proposal, the Bridge made a proposal, the microsolars, the microsolars law, the families of the weaker property, the state wouldn't give money to them, the savings would be huge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got the sun... Zagreb, Dalmatia, you know? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? Because you don't have any peanuts. There's no peanuts. But it has around wind power plants and subsidies, renewable energy sources through wind power plants. What are you stopping for, the government gave a negative opinion on the microsolar law? Feel free to take it, copy it, plant it upstairs that you suggested, let Ivan Vrdoljak sign it, we will vote for this bill on microsolars. But there's no peanuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95967	Thank you very much, despite the peanuts thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95968	Thank you. My home education does not allow me to talk in the same way as you do but I will tell you one thing and that is that as far as the Solar Law is concerned, although it is not the subject now, the law that was on the first reading and which will come into the second reading very soon, it will solve what you are talking about in a much better way than the Most Independent Lists, it was also the reason why we refused, because the Government Law is much better and the citizens see it very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95969	Thank you very much. And now we have Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95970	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, energy efficiency really concerns many things, but I believe that construction may be closest to you, and can you tell me which sectors you may be shooting in some way in action terms and whether there are any horizontal talks on the country's strategy, about the implementation of the plans, wouldn't the achievement of these objectives be accelerated?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95971	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95972	In addition to construction we think of transport, then efficiency of use... energy in industrial and energy systems, fostering sustainable construction, a family home reconstruction programme, we know that the regulation has now allowed this part to move significantly, that is what the citizens have been waiting for and what will now be the current and implementation of energy audits and energy management systems, it is now here from this plan that is envisaged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not just going to be construction, it's going to be these other elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95973	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate, so I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Slaven Dobrović in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95974	Thank you very much. I welcome again both the vice president and representatives of the ministry and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. Energy efficiency, that I really believe that the approach which is, and such an impression in the presentation of this law is considered a series of points, so there is again one individual approach and in fact a lack of one comprehensive approach which then necessarily carries synergy effects. This is very important, therefore, building, is, it is true that you can do a lot in energy efficiency if you raise the quality of the physical envelope, so building and it is good to implement it however it must not be the only one. I will remind you that since you referred to the two ministers, that when we found the state of the ministry or the fund, then we determined that the obligations had arrived several times larger than the plan because the public calls, the competitions, of course, had been accepted by the people of the armed forces with a large façade subsidy, it doesn't matter what the work had been accumulated because it was all done to the Horuk. I will not even refer to the famous divisions that are the same to absolutely, be careful the divisor as a divisor can really help to individualize heat consumption and through this increase energy efficiency, so I sign it, so it is clear, so I am a scientist at the university, so thermodynamics is behind it and that is fine, but the way that it was then implemented led to us coming into an absurd situation, into a great crowd, and it would be very good to avoid, so when Croatia will come out of such, out of the midst of such behaviour. Traffic, you mention cars, yeah, we're going to pay 100, 200, 300 imported cars, so on electric or even better hybrids famous, and that's how we're going to build our energy efficiency in traffic, I think it's a completely missed case. In traffic it is of course to do a lot, mentioning energy, microsolars, we have made a proposal. Look, I don't know if it's clear to you that distributed energy sources are indeed, with the very fact that energy is produced in a renewable way, they offer an increase in energy efficiency of the distribution system because at the site of consumption, a good part of that energy is produced. I would be and I would be very pleased because I am not a supporter of politics right now if you would give a quality proposal, we will close our eyes and we will not yell that you prescribed, but make it better, I believe that it can be done better but just let something be done, so let it be possible for citizens throughout Croatia to decide to invest in their own production and solve it. All right, you said it was last week, I think that approach is bad, these are common topics, so talk about energy efficiency about everything and say that last week there was renewable energy sources, that it's ad act today, it's incomprehensible to me, but look at the low-carbon strategy we left in the ministry, not at all, we found it and the people who worked on it are people from the profession, from the university and should consider it, there's a lot of writing and doing it. Here, I'll mention waste management. And you won't believe it's about energy efficiency. How? So if we turn 100 thousand tons of paper instead of RDF into raw materials, you know what amount of energy it's about a year that's going to be saved of course in the paper factory, one is in, so we have it in us, the other is gone, I don't know, but it doesn't matter, it's going to be produced in the EU. It's more and better with plastic. So plastics, polymers, back like raw materials that don't have to be imported far away because reprocessing plastics can practically take place on the same island. He doesn't have to go over the ferry. Now, however, it insists on megalomaniac projects that are then defended as some modern ones, I think these are catastrophes which are then totally remote from all these strategies that we are working here, and you have to look at the paper list to see which segments are included. So a holistic approach is something we need. And it would be great if we were in politics, so we'd have this implementation and we'd go ahead with full sails. Because like this, okay, and the law itself is technically taking over certain standards that are imposed on us, that we don't do well. They need to be followed exactly. They need to be rewritten. Here's when we don't know ourselves. However, I think the issue of energy efficiency is much more than that. And I'm saying, look at the low-carbon strategy, it didn't just happen in the period when I was a minister, but before, we've done it in, say, the segment of waste management, it's a valuable document that could be a good basis, and in the end you have integrated all of these things in one place. So here I am no longer going to be longer, we need to start with words of action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95975	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Totgergeli, go ahead in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95976	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. As we have heard, therefore, the European Commission has officially opened an investigation into the proper implementation and application of the provisions of Directive 2012/27 of the EU in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the Commission stressed the transposition of a directive on the establishment of a functional mandatory energy efficiency system by participants in the energy market. So the emphasis is on the mandatory energy efficiency system. As we have already heard, Croatia has defined itself before for combined, so as an alternative to establishing a system of energy efficiency obligations, members may decide to take other measures, i.e. alternative energy savings measures among final customers governed by the applicable law. However, Member States may combine systems, hence these mandatory and alternative including national energy efficiency programmes but this does not exclude the introduction of mandatory schemes for energy market participants. Amendments to the laws establish a system of obligations that will have a long-term perspective and encourage investment in energy efficiency also adapted to opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. And what does that mean to us now? So for the purpose of fostering new energy savings, in the ultimate consumption of the Law to entities determined by this law, energy savings are required. And this total savings obligations in line with the objective that each year must lead to the achievement of new savings compared to the past. So, for 2019 and 2020, 1% of savings are also prescribed at year-on-year compared to 2 years ago. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/35 of 13 December 2017 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2015, p. 1). 2021. 1.25% of savings at year level compared to 2019 and 2022 each year at 1.5% compared to 2 years before that means 2022 compared to 2020. How are we gonna do that? So the ministry, foreigners and bonds are prescribing the share of liabilities in the total share we have for the region of the Republic of Croatia. So based on energy consumption in 2017, 1 % is calculated how much we need to save in 2019 and then how much who has a share in the market, so it is prescribed how much the supplier must save during 2019. However, there is one exception, which is that in 2019, those suppliers who delivered more than 300 gigawatts of energy to final customers. In 2020, this limit is reduced to those suppliers that delivered 100 gigawatt hours in 2018 and then in 2021 we go to even less suppliers, so those who delivered 50 gigawatt hours of energy to end consumers. Exclusion of that was the amount of fuel that suppliers put into circulation, so much lessening these savings they have to make. And now if we look at the data a little bit, there are no colleagues of Bulja now, he doesn't like the data very much, but the data in the last six years, let's say, from 2010-2015, what the total consumption looked like. Energy in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, had a reduction in total energy consumption of 2.5% year-on-year from 2010-2015. So, every year on average, 2.5% less. In 2015, we ended up with 398 fifth joints of energy, and let's say 2014 compared to 2015. by 0.9%, so 2015. 0.9% less energy compared to 2014. What it looks like for individual energies, coal and coke have an average drop of 0.7% of wood and bio mass in those 10 years, with an increase of 0.2% of liquid fuel drop of 3%, natural gas drop of 4.8% on the annual level all I say is, the power of water 6.7% decline, el. Energy 11.3 heat energy 0.4 el. growth Energy is the same growth of 11.3 and renewable energy sources growth of 38.6% annually. And we spend a total of 2.5% less energy a year, on average those 6 years. If we look at where it's spent, then we have direct consumption, so 2015 ended with 275 petajoules while the total is 398. This difference was spent on losses in the transformation of power consumption, so in the production itself, the loss of distribution transport, all these 5 years on average, and the loss of transformation and consumption in the production plant itself, the loss of distribution transport, all falling from year to year, and to a level of 3-4%. Direct consumption, therefore, of what was spent in industry, transport and general consumption related to households and the public sector decreased by 1.8% year-on-year. The household in that... 2.6 and the public sector by 0.9. 1.3 1.2 is agriculture reduction and construction 5.1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we've come to how much we managed to make savings in 2016. Energy. We come up with one data at an annual level of 0.63 petajoules, which is compared to the fact that in 2014 if that is the year before, we had a total consumption of 402 petajoules, then we are fat below 1%. So we're about 5.6 times less than 1%, and in 2019 we need to save 1% compared to 2017, which means we need much stronger and bigger measures than we currently have, and that's why this bill is a proposal, to introduce a system of obligations that has not been revived so far. And therefore, as we think this proposal is good and that we need the HDZ Club, it will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95977	Thank you, too. Mr. Milorad Batinić in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95978	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In fact, energy efficiency is both a goal and an imperative not only of these governments, but also of all governments so far, as well as of future ones, because energy, we are aware that it is of strategic interest and has always been in history, and it will be in the future, who has enough energy, will not be brought into that context and the issue of national security. When we talk about these amendments and the additions to the energy efficiency law, of course, that and the implementation of the Directives, that is, the implementation of certain directives in this legislative framework, not only is it an obligation but it is necessary and it is for our own sake. In principle, the HNS Club can support this bill, amending and supplementing the law, however, I would like to get some answers to some of the questions that and some of the dilemmas that we have, or, we don't understand what the reasons are, so I will only be taxing, as it is said, through certain articles, where we believe that this should be corrected or agreed between the resolution ministries on the issue of jurisdiction of certain government agencies. First in Art. 3. paragraph 2 of point 1. The SGE, which writes, means the same central state office for renovation and housing, and we all know that SGE combinations, means systematic energy management and as such is used not only in this law, but also in all other laws, where it is mentioned by systematic energy management. And we know very well what the central state office for renovation and housing is, and I was thinking, or maybe, if it's a mistake or something else, I took the right to seek and the strategic document of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing and in their vision, in their guidelines, until 2021, practically nowhere does it say that they will implement the measures that come from this Law, so that, I find it a little odd. In the same sense, the national energy management information system, the ISGE shortcuts, will be run by the central housing office if we know that APN, the government agency is also the owner of that, i.e. the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. I would ask you to find a common agreement here, that is, to resolve this issue within two resistors. Complementary. 7.a. also refers to this and now that the SGE is read, now that we call on the article before, means the central office for, excuse me, I have to repeat, so for jobs, the state office for renovation and housing implements the policy of systematic... energy, water, buildings owned by the public sector, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there possibly a mistake in writing APN? Just like that in the wheel. 2. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt However, there is one observation. Item 2, point. 2. which speaks, the amount of energy savings in buildings owned and benefited by the public sector is not in full compliance with the Directive. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5. The EC Energy Efficiency Directive is obliged to report on the total area of the floor of heated or cooled buildings owned and used by the central government that was renovated last year, and does not refer to savings achieved in all buildings. Now, I'd like to ask for an explanation or article 2, item 2. 2. to comply with the Directive or to explain to me the reasons why it is written. Now, it's just a matter of nomotechnics on us. Article 22 where the word APN is replaced by the SGE. I find it very difficult for me to understand that a shortcut for systematic energy management is that this involves a central state office for housing care and reconstruction. I can't just do it, I can't accept it. What's certainly good, it's a supplemental article. 30.a., Art. The 24th amendment and addition where it is detailed for those projects carried out through structural investment funds, means for the energy renovation of several residential buildings, family houses and certainly to expect large savings in this part. However, I also ask the question if and to what extent is possible, it is likely that it is a question to be defined by the Regulation, to save them in restored family houses, multi-state buildings, meaning that they are not public buildings, to measure energy savings. And simply, energy is being saved. So, not only in public buildings, but in multi-state buildings and family houses, which will be based on competitions to be opened by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which will be measurable and which should certainly be entered into the savings quota. Art. The 34th amendment and addition, meaning transitional and final provisions, the minister will adopt the Regulation within 3 months, all this is acceptable. However, in Art. 35th says, by way of effect, the labelling Regulation, etc., shall cease to apply, and any other Regulation shall cease to apply. Do we have, is there, is there going to be a legal vacuum, a formal vacuum? Three months. So, by the rate of the Law, the automaticity ceases to apply to the Regulation, and the new Regulation will only take place in 3 months after the entry into force of the law. We're optimistic. I want to believe he will. I would ask for clarification and what during this period as a transitional period? Because these were both major remarks and through public counselling, so here, I'd like to hear your thinking in that part. As far as general is concerned, and there have been speeches here in the assembly, energy recovery or energy efficiency can be implemented in several directions. So, since I come from a local level and in previous years we have achieved certain savings through reconstruction, specifically public lighting, which is a very large item, then through, and even cars, as acceptable to whom it is not, but obviously we must be following European trends in that part. What I would certainly like you to accept until the second reading by the second reading of this opinion of the CNS and, in principle, if you still have not agreed on the responsibility of the Agency or the bodies that will implement in the operational sense of this Act, not to prejudge the matter for another reading, but to define it as a central state agency, so that it will be a matter of jurisdiction agreed by the Ministers although I say, note, the central state office for, allow me only a second to read: I consider that given all that is in its jurisdiction, what it does, for what it is founded, here I honestly think that there are no points of contact, that it has nothing to do with energy efficiency in the work, especially as the implementing body of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95979	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Orsat Milenic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I would actually refer to what my colleague Batinić was saying because the good part of this very exposure I wanted to point out, namely, this introduction of the body and the interference of jurisdiction is rather unclear. We would suggest that you go into law with one of the more general definitions because what you're doing first is we're all aware that the bodies change and the names very quickly, the other bodies, we don't see any logic and connection to what the colleague was saying, that I'm not repeating now, with what we should be doing here. Is it here now imagined something that they're going to do in the future or you've put them aproximately, I don't know, but maybe it's something they should be doing, and this isn't just about you. Otherwise, we would do well to put them in descriptively because when we change names, we combine them, etc. We have to change the laws, we're actually producing one expense that's too high. And this now brings me actually to the content of the debate, so the law as such does not have any major shortcomings that I can point to, it is also because this pilot has been launched against us and because the directives have been amended, so he is there and we have to bring him in. But what we need to bring even more is this delay that you have indicated and the delay is actually about achieving the goals that we have set for ourselves in some way and accepted, even though they are European, but we have agreed to them as part of it and accepted them. I'm not sure if, in the long run, this intensity is going to be transferring from end-user to distributors whether to give us a result, I don't know, it's clear to me that you're here, that you've made it clear that you've been thinking about this social component, so the costs that would now be extremely high and that's something that we can understand, accept and it stands, but when we take a step back, I'm not sure that we're going to be able to achieve the goals that we're set with. Now they're already set up for us. We didn't just set them up for ourselves. The second is actually general and it doesn't just go to you about this law, but there are two dimensions, so when we pass the law, this is energy efficiency, there are colleagues talking before me, but it's so much wider than this one law. We are actually discussing here today a segment that itself will have one effect, but it may be 10 or 20% of what we must achieve when we talk about energy efficiency. We'd be fine, and I think to this Parliament that we're trying to do this debate, if it's going to change the law to concentrate them, that all of a sudden we're discussing everything about a particular question, whether here because of the deadlines that you said and the procedure that went against us, but that would give us a bigger picture, and then we could see if somewhere else in some other law regarding the same matter, things could have been decided differently to fit into the same picture and actually go towards the same results. The other thing is, and it's none of your business again, it's our legislative problem to all of us, and these are the rules. Here a colleague also said something about when it will stop, when it won't, I won't talk about it, you'll have to solve it when it stops, and who goes into effect, but generally if you look at the remarks that have come to this law, they do well in relation to the problem of the industry that has no predictable business, so at least they are experiencing at this point. And that's our big and important problem, I say not only with this law, so we're going with the law, but we say in many technical laws, we're going to fix the rules, the rules are very often more important and actually more directly affecting the rights, but more importantly, the obligations of the parties, but I'm asking. We're going to have a certain debate, there's been a public debate, but a whole series of subjects who participated in it don't really know what he's going to bring them because things are going to be settled by the rules. And maybe with these complex things, it would be good, because the rule-making deadline is relatively short, yes, if you could do it until the second reading, but if we had at least a draft of those regulations, that they would go into public debate and that they would actually go complementaryly, to go together. Because then you put people, you put anyone who wants to do something, do something, put them in a predictable situation, it's a business entity or a citizen if he thinks, that he simply knows what's predictable, what's going to happen to him now, which is going to happen later. This way, if we just lay down the rule book we'll bring back later, I repeat, it's not just about you here. That's our problem with most laws, but in these technical ones that cause a very big impact on the economy where the subjects have to adapt, it can cause a big problem because you're thinking you're going to invest, you're not going to, where you're going to go, you have a law that's actually going to make a rule, you don't know. I'm saying, this is what I said in class to the remarks that came and the law itself,... Where are the people who need to spend it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So because of these remarks we will be restrained for now, but I say bring what needs to be brought, it must be brought like this, we can talk about these things, the technical names of the body, the entry into force of the regulations, etc., and we will see until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95981	Thank you, too. And in the end, Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Milatić's closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the discussion which has been constructive and summed up and I can only say that we have listened carefully to everything you have said, we absolutely agree with what Mr. Dear Representative Batinić and Mr. Milenić said in terms of the name of this energy management system. We have already had this on the parliamentary committees as a topic and by the second reading we will certainly find one name even if it was a little bit more complex in terms of multiple sentences, so any pre-turbation within jurisdiction is not reflected in the law that the law does not have to be changed, here we are in a moment after the conclusion of the government that we have received that APN will connect, not merge, that we have written here in the proposal but that does not mean that it will finally be over. So on the dangerous Mr. Dobrovic to clearly look at the low-carbon strategy, we will certainly do this and we are looking at it clearly, last time I said on the law that since the adoption of the Energy Development Strategy precedes this before, clearly we will parallelly and bring a low-carbon strategy and all that is possible from it. As for these remarks by Mr Batinić that in that article 8, I think we will respect that article, too, because in the meantime as we have received from APN one opinion, in the meantime we have consulted with the resolution ministry where they are about to follow up on what Mr Batinic said and we will bring it into line until the second reading and as far as the rules are concerned, the position of this ministry is that the rules and regulations are passed within the time limit, we will surely bring it. I would also like to apply what you distinguished MPs are doing, but it is impossible because of the procedure, the simple rule has to go to a public debate and then for him to go to a public debate, there must be and there must be a law. But we will certainly do what you say within the time limit and what you can communicate with the interested public so that they already know what will be in the rulebook because it is actually a prerequisite for the adoption itself because we have communicated with them and we will continue to communicate with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95983	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95984	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 420 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 12 abstentions and 9 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95985	We move to the last item of the agenda: - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, second reading, P.Z. No. 418 So this law is in second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. So far, discussions have been carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Does the proposing representative, in this case Mr. Mile Horvat, want to give an additional explanation? Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95986	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Final Proposal for a Law confirming the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer. At the 28th meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, held in Kigala in Rwanda in 2016, an amendment to the Montreal Protocol was adopted and it was therefore called the Kigali Change, which added to the existing measures under the Montreal Protocol a percentage reduction in the consumption and production of greenhouse gases, fluorinated or shortened by the HFC nomenclature which otherwise has significant global warming potential and needs to be gradually replaced by things that are acceptable to the environment. To remind you that by implementing the Montreal Protocol, more than 98% of the substances that damage the ozone layer have been reduced. Without the implementation of the Montreal Protocol, damage to the ozone layer would be 10 times larger than it is today. This law confirms the Kigali change in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The competent authorities for the implementation of the Kigalian Amendments shall be the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration each within their prescribed parts. The Kigallian change is a contribution to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, given the objectives of keeping the global temperature rise at a level significantly lower than 2 degrees Celsius and to maintaining this increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period. The Kigallian amendment lays down the obligations of the gradual abolition of the HFC, i.e. the flourovodic, for the States of the side of the Montreal Protocol. The essence of this amendment is the following, so the states are divided into three groups with different deadlines for reducing and finally eliminating the use of hydrocarbons. Accordingly, developed countries including all EU Member States and the United States have committed to gradually reduce the use of HFC starting with 10% reductions from 2019 and reaching out, so they have set a goal of achieving 80% reduction by 2036. It is important to say that in this group, it does not produce fluorocarbon and market needs meet the import of these substances. By 1 January 2019, developed countries must establish a system of issuing licences for imports and exports of florocarbons. Developing countries have a delay in establishing this system by the beginning of 2021. Trade with countries that have not confirmed a Kigali change has been prohibited since 2033. Two groups of developing countries will freeze the use of florocarbons by 2024 and then gradually reduce their use. China has a deadline for freezing consumption until 2024. India, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan and the Gulf States will have this deadline a little later. The world's largest producers of HFC, i.e. florocarbon, are India and China. The use of these gases has already been reduced in many countries, developed countries, including European Union countries. And finally. In June 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Law implementing Regulation of the European Union No 517 of 2014 on florified greenhouse gases, which established a legal and institutional framework for the implementation of the Kigalian amendment requirements in the Republic of Croatia and does not impose new obligations on the Republic of Croatia. As regards the ratification of the international treaty, this Law was adopted in one reading and no means were necessary for the implementation of this law in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The observations of the working bodies and the observations on e-consultations have been adopted and have been incorporated into the Proposal for this Law. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, 25 projects to eliminate consumption have been approved and implemented in the last 18 years. These projects abolished the consumption of chlorofluorocarbon, carbon tetrachloride, halon and methyl bromide used in Croatia to produce tobacco transplants. The projects are financed by a multilateral fund of about $3 and a half million. Therefore, the implementation of these projects has been indicatively reduced and the use of florad greenhouse gases in the Republic of Croatia. What I should finally say about the situation in the Republic of Croatia, the situation in the Republic of Croatia, that certain insights have been made by sectors where the total mass of the working substances of florocarbons in existing devices by certain branches of activity have been found to be mainly present, that these substances are the most represented substance under the factory codes R404A, therefore they are located in the sectors of trade and catering, so in the independent units of refrigerators, cooling boxes for the cooling of goods, with an estimated installation of around 100, 110 cooling units in the Republic of Croatia. The most relevant is this R404A working substance. In technological processes it is also represented over 50%. Over 50% is represented in the food industry. The most represented is also in the freezing of goods Therefore, it is concluded that the greatest pressure in implementing Regulation 517 of the European Union since 2014 has significantly stricter requirements, i.e. on the Kigalian amendment. The maximum pressure will therefore be on the cooling sector for commercial cooling, which is used for the most working matter I have just said 404A. To this end, the Ministry actively cooperates with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in order to warn all stakeholders in time of the process of changes that have taken place and which will result in the implementation of this Regulation, or so that the replacement of existing inadequate equipment with cooling devices and replacements with equipment with cooling devices acceptable to the environment can be prepared in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95987	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the rapporteurs want it? We have a replica, we have two replicas. The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95988	Thank you very much. How you turned that upside down isn't good. Yeah? The fact is that the substance destroys the cooling devices or damages the ozone or if it does not damage the ozone to heat, lift, heat the climate. So when we talk about refrigerating devices, you mentioned refrigerators. I think the problem in Croatia has been solved, that the refrigerators are empty, shut down, you mentioned how much I think in your debate. That's the key problem, Secretary Horvat. The refrigerators are empty in Croatia. So if you can give, mostly in the areas where I come from and you come from, that problem we solved and the cooling devices the rest of me don't know. As far as refrigerators are concerned, they no longer affect the climate, because 90% of them are empty. More perhaps parliamentary representatives, the government can fill the fridge this rest you've shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95989	Thank you. The fridges, as I recall, they don't heat up. They're cooling up. But he will answer you safely, sir. How do the refrigerators heat up? [[Intruder Bulj: The main question is how to fill the refrigerators.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95990	I thank you, Reverend Bull. So I don't know if this question is about this subject? But how to fill the refrigerators with what? I assume you mean with food. And listen, when I start growing again in the country in Baranja, that is, when we start having chickens again, when we start having a garden, when we start having some domestic production, and we don't get attached to Lidl, then we'll probably have something in the fridges. It's not a good thing things don't happen to me, so we learned to buy everything and we don't produce anything. I'm sorry if I missed the subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95991	Here's your answer, Mr. Bull. You're pleased. And now it's Mr. Dobrovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95992	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. That it's okay to regulate the issue of placing new working substances on the market that solve, therefore, not only the problem of ozone destruction but also global warming. However, I wonder if the Ministry is planning any action on handling the equipment after use? Because we know if this isn't done properly, then all the working matter gets very easily into the atmosphere and the recycling yard system in principle very badly functioning and do you think there's anything you can do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95993	Okay. Let's move on, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95994	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Secretary of State Horvat with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are facing today the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, so I would like to say a few words on the importance of the Protocol itself and its amendments and on the achievements achieved by the Republic of Croatia in this area. The Protocol itself on substances that damage the ozone layer was created as a Protocol in Vienna to the Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Cover, is an international contract signed today by as many as 197 world states, including all members of the United Nations as well as all Member States of the European Union. This Protocol shall be considered as one of the most successful environmental protection agreements. The Protocol itself was signed in 1987, and the Republic of Croatia has become an active and successful part of the objectives set out in the Montreal Protocol on Succession. The Protocol itself has been amended and completed several times, in London, 92th in Copenhagen, 97th in Montreal, 99th in Beijing, and finally in 2016 in Kigali. We have ratified all the amendments and additions to this Agreement, even as a member of the European Union, part of our legislative framework makes Regulation No. 517/214 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on florin greenhouse gases, which is now agreed on by the Kigali Protocol to phase out HFC. This law confirms that the Kigalia Protocol is amended to the fullest extent by defining the issues of the abolition of HFC and prescribing the deadlines for the countries of different levels of development and, together with all members of the European Union, as the Republic of Croatia under that Protocol, we will be required to achieve new reductions of 85% by 2036. The Republic of Croatia, and in particular the Ministry of Environment and Nature, have made significant efforts to achieve the objectives outlined in both the Montreal Protocol and its amendments to other international agreements and legislation of the European Union, and in order to contribute to the protection of the ozone layer and in a broader sense to the word, we have achieved a reduction in the impact of global warming and climate change. Thanks to the current decisions of the Protocol, controlled use of ozone-hazarding substances and their increasing use have not only helped to preserve the ozone layer for today's and future generations, but since a large part of the substances that threaten the ozone also belong to a group of greenhouse gases have contributed to global efforts to reduce climate change, the preservation of ozone contributes to the conservation of ecosystems and human health, and above all through fewer cases of skin cancer and visual impairment. Thanks to the effects of the Montreal Protocol, more than 125 billion tonnes of CO2 have been reduced. With all this in mind, I point out that Croatia is one of the more successful countries when it comes to the implementation of the objectives of this Protocol and I can only wish that we continue in the same direction. And by adopting this law at no extra cost, we will continue to contribute to the protection of the ozone layer, to the reduction of greenhouse gases, to the impact of global warming, and ultimately to the quality of life both today's and future generations and in line with all that I have stated, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95995	Thank you, too. Mr Branimir Bunjac, in front of the Living Wall and SNAGE's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95996	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with associates. The citizens of the world, as well as our citizens, are deeply concerned about climate change that is already visible with a simple eye. The little older ones still remember that we had previously had the first snow in Croatia around November 1st, last around March 15th, that snow applications were sometimes one foot to two heights, that the winter temperature was falling below -30 degrees, that summer was moderate, we had spring, and autumn, and today there is no more. From summer we cross directly into winter and vice versa. The first snow falls, it falls somewhere in mid-January, it goes away for a few days, and in the summer we have record temperatures of about 40 degrees. It's sunny in October, and even January, and then, according to the new plants, they bloom right after the new year. The average temperature in Croatian cities has risen by an average of 1 degree over the last 18 years, which is unremembered growth. We have more and more frequent fires and droughts, then rainfalls that cause floods, floods and slides. Because of the increasing heat, the plants are increasingly dry, which is the ideal basis for spreading fires, and the fires are rarely so severe that they cannot be stopped as recently in Greece. Worst of all, fires increase the level of carbon in the air and thus contribute to climate instability. The water supply of the river is falling or rising too fast. There's a drop in biodiversity. We need more and more air conditioning. They're firing water pipes. The entire parts of the settlement as it was this year in Croatia are disappearing. It's getting more and more lightning, and lightning is the effects of more and more temperatures. Also, more and more leeches. For example, in 2003 there were 6 appearances of leeches in Croatia. In 2013, there were already 94. In the world, we see unremembered tornado and hurricane damage. The rate of damage from elementary disasters has increased by more than 350% over the last 5 years, from 80m euros to as much as 300m euros in 2017. Someone should be deeply concerned about this data in Croatia, especially the local self-government unit that should begin to develop long-term strategic plans on this issue. Farmers and cattlemen are not only confused by the climate, but are sometimes literally terrified. More and more people are experiencing health problems due to climate change, and human mortality is also increasing in extreme climate conditions. Increased heat bothers workers, students and students in carrying out their duties. There are terrible changes in the world. We have measured temperatures above 50 degrees Celsius in the United States, and all the ice in Greenland has either melted or broken down even in the northernmost areas. In just 10 days in Greenland you can melt an area of 200 thousand square miles which is more than terrifying. Some predictions suggest that the northern half of the earth will no longer have ice until 2050. If that were to happen, the ocean level would grow by as much as six meters. The ice melts rapidly in Antarctica as well. However, there is more than a real danger that there will be a relatively fast rise in sea altitude in Croatia, which could endanger both life on the Adriatic, both the economy and us with such important tourist incomes. In particular, Zadar's hinterland and the Neretva River valleys are at risk. To combat the effects of climate change, hundreds of billions of dollars are already being spent today, and such a trend will continue in the coming decades. Croatia will also have to spend 3 billion 600m euros for this purpose by 2070, which we hope to receive from European funds. The money is big, but if something is not done, they say we will suffer damages of at least 8 billion euros, it means twice as much as what we intend to invest. Unfortunately, it is important to point out that the main cause of climate change is, above all, man and his actions, and in particular, the countries we call the most developed. I would like to particularly welcome the subject we are dealing with today, which is a ratification of the so-called ". Kigallian changes to the Montreal Protocol that further tightens the conditions for the protection of ozone envelopes that protects us from harmful UV radiation or atmospheric warming. The Montreal Protocol was adopted in 1987, and prohibits the use of multiple substances dangerous to ozone. So far, it has been complemented, changed, and reduced, and it has become more efficient each time. It is particularly important for this Protocol to be signed by all countries of the world, and in some parts of the implementation of the Protocol, Croatia is even the most advanced state in the world. What we are most sad about, however, is the behavior of the administration of new US President Donald Trump, who in 2017 withdrew from the Paris Climate Agreement, and all for... the interest of large capital. The agreement was signed in Paris in December 2015 by almost all countries in the world and it was the world's first action plan to mitigate the effects of climate change and to maintain the rise of global temperature to less than 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period. Practically, the Paris Agreement provides for the world to move its backs with fossil fuels by the middle of the century. The countries have committed themselves to moving to a renewable energy source and to helping poor countries in this regard. The U.S. covers the production of as much as 18% of greenhouse gases, bringing down the effect of this agreement, and giving a very bad example to other countries that could also turn their backs on the agreement. Because of their democratic tradition and economic strength, the United States should be the leading country in the protection of humanity and nature, there are often leaders of exactly the opposite tendencies. In the same way, the United States, Canada and China have obstructed the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, which has also sought to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The living wall will believe as will the rest of the parliamentary parties support ratification of the Montreal Protocol, but it is clear that no matter how few countries like Croatia try to fix the world, it will not be possible without the participation of the biggest ones. In that sense, I call on all the responsible people on this planet to realize that in some things we are all in the same basket, inextricably linked to good and evil and that we should show maximum solidarity since the survival of the country concerns each of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95997	Thank you, too. Mr. Slaven Dobrović in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95998	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of State with the Secretary of State and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. So, the amendments to the Montreal Protocol with this last document from Africa, here was the speech, and the Montreal Agreement is indeed that. The protocol, the most successful international agreement created in response to a serious global problem. This was the problem of a broken ozone layer in the stratosphere and the phenomena of significantly stronger UV radiation especially in genders and then, these were, in the 1970s, a great phenomenon like melanomas and similar, actually one explosion of such diseases, I don't know the blind rabbits in Patagonia and all that was and indeed in a short time this Protocol was prepared. Of course, after one great battle of scientists with industry, which after publication of work that brings together chlorine and brom from freon produced for years, which has exceptional thermomic properties, however, which after use are released outside, which have been used as thrust gases, etc. The question, what after the use came back as a boomerang in the form of intense UV radiation and the world responded well there and arranged for the abandonment of the use of freon it was known R11, R12, it was chlorofluorocarbons and replacing it with replaceable working substances that were significantly less potential for the destruction of ozone. Later, however, the problem of global warming arose. So it's not two of the same problems, it's one UV and ozone, and the other is the global warming that's connected to all these consequences, the phenomena that our colleague Bunjac described well and to which we also need to respond, Kyoto, and the Paris Agreement, and, of course, it concerns many sectors almost all of these laws and today and, I guess, last week, all of them must go together to stop the rise in greenhouse gas concentrations. So, CO2, of course carbon balance, less fossil fuels, but also compounds that are used and emit far less, however, which have significantly greater global warming potential, as is the case with these florocarbons that are trying to pull out of use this change. And there's really nothing to say but back it up, and we'll certainly support it. However, I would like to explain the question I referred to the secretary of state. So, it's not just a matter of putting substances on the market, we have a problem of the device after, we know that here these climate change has hit and some standard and availability of the device, we have more and more cooling devices, so these are various heat cranes, so it's not just a refrigerator that was full or empty anymore, but it's also cars, each today has air conditioning, it's devices by house, by public institutions etc. It's all there. So, what, after the education of repairers, the education of citizens, is the obligation to return such equipment to someone who knows how to handle these cooling substances because the extraction of the working substance from that installation is necessary because it is necessary to chew the installation to take the compressor on the abandoned cooling device along the road that leads to major damage? And of course, we don't care because there's an atmosphere that we're counting on, so it's divided by a large number and a small contribution. However, the integral of everything is a big problem and we all get more and more on the head as our colleague Bunjac said. So that certainly concerns about this problem should include a complete system of equipment, waste and in a narrow and wider sense. Functions, i.e. the better functionality of recycling courtyards where citizens are offered and invited to bring and or be obliged through companies that can do these things because there is therefore a significant minor damage to the environment. In the end, we are obliged to report on this because everything is reported and balanced by mass and flows of everything and everything, and in this respect, we would improve our balance sheet here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u95999	Thank you, too. And finally, Mr. Mato Chichak. He's gone. He's losing his right. State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvat will have the final word on behalf of the motionor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u96000	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you to all the clubs that took part in this debate. Thank you for understanding the need for this law to be passed and for us, with this law, to ratify this agreement, to put these amendments in order, in order of the European countries that have already done so. The Honorable Representative, Prof. Dobrović very well explained the essence of this law. I didn't hear your question first of all through the replica, but I'm going to say that if we're watching the thing systematically, we have a complex system that says, gives an answer how to master those devices, installations that are out of use, so now, what to do with them. Some reject what is of course illegal behavior, and those who use this legal model then we must say that there is therefore a system covered by the Law on Waste Management and the Law on Air Protection. Air protection therefore confers powers on certain professional persons who have passed the education that you have spoken of, whether it is legal persons or craftsmen, to perform the service activities of the devices and equipment containing... and to collect them. So we set up a system like that. These devices, air conditioning, refrigerators, etc. Instead of ending up being dumped somewhere in space, they should end up in dumps or recycling yards, dumps by an authorised processor or in recycling yards in a way that the citizen uses free telephone services that exist and that he uses the free ability to drive it away. Therefore, citizens have no cost of calling or transporting such devices to authorised processors. Also when it comes to economic facilities that have much larger such installations, therefore, they have an obligation legally to transport it to authorised processors, then come authorized legal entities or craftsmen to service it, extract the Freon to then deposit it it is today an authorised CIA company that only does so today and has registered two warehouses in the state and that Freon is then driven out of the state to the international combustion plant of hazardous waste because we do not have these capacities right now. It's the system we set up. Whether he respects or disrespects himself or not, we see what our reality is like. Through these amendments to the Waste Management Act, we included local self-government in the whole process, and we said that communal monks now have the opportunity to react to that kind of illegal behavior. So, they have the right when they spot the improper disposal of such devices in space they have the right to go with some kind of violation and sanctions in the heights prescribed by local self-government. If it is a matter of greater proportion, if the shape is harder then, of course, competent inspectorates, inspections with their accusing proposals. So we've established the system. As a citizen of the obligation to respect that system, that is another question. Of course we miss education on all this, but it's a process that lasts. Once again, thank you for your understanding, your intensities for the motion to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u96001	Thank you, too. You have another replica. Mr. Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u96002	Thank you very much. I'm glad we got along now. However, there is only one more remark. So, you mentioned then we're driving it to the incinerators. So, don't present or view the burner as an absolute solution for everything. So, to burn down certain substances what does that mean? So you need to know that every pheron is worth the raw material. He's a purifi, he's being processed. It is, therefore, flora, chlorine, so these are all substances that have value. Oxidize him into something he doesn't have, then you have a problem because when you say it so easily, people really think it's okay. It's all for everyone, there's one good solution it's a burner. It's not like that today. The circular economy demands that every substance be returned as raw material. The working material from the old device is more than good raw material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u96003	Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the first reading of the agricultural law proposal. It's a very important law. Come in large numbers. The session was interrupted at 6:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-03-0.u96004	Final proposal of the Law confirming the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on substances damaged by the ozone layer, second reading, P.Z. No. 418. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, please vote. I find that, unanimously 103 votes for the adoption of the Law confirming the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer. Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, good morning, we continue our work. Today is on the agenda as the first point: - Proposal for a law on agriculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 416; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Honored Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go, Secretary of State.
