ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101828	The next club of MPs is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Mladen Madjer will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101829	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, I would like to talk about an absurd situation that is happening in our county, and I mean, unfortunately, because of a policy that is irresponsible, because of the will of individuals. Here, all these days, a lot of praise and a mouthful of demographics, while children unfortunately suffer from red tape or even worse, local politics. Here's an example, Kalnik Elementary School, Kalnik Municipality. In OS Kalnik every day they have a warm meal that is prepared for them in their school kitchen, which is equipped with modern, and kindergarten children, which are in the same building, which is shared with a wall, are supplied 19 km away from the town of Križevci. I'm asking you why? Because he is the founder of the municipality of Kalnik, the head of SDP, while the school which has a kitchen is controlled by regional self-government county run by the Mayor of Koren and the Network with its mayors from the HDZ coalition partner. So, school cooks can't cook for kindergarten because it doesn't give away the Ministry of Education, our caring Mayor Koren claimed for months. He'd give it to the poor, but, well, he doesn't give it to the Ministry. In his official statement, however, the ministry said not to ban children from feeding at school, preparing food for kindergarten, but that no one had even asked them about it. Well, it's very interesting how Mr. Koren makes a press release not to give it to the Ministry, and the Ministry is making a statement that no one has ever sent them that letter. So if it wasn't sad, it would be very funny. So, kids eat food that's 19 km away because practically, I have to say, either the mayor or the Ministry, someone's lying, and children don't get a warm meal, and yet I mention kindergarten and school literally share only one wall. I believe that the mayor should be the first residents of the Koprivnica-križevci County, and that he should provide them with maximum support in the exercise of their rights. Unfortunately, this example confirms that this is not the case. We can understand even the mayor that he does not want, unfortunately, to protect the people of the koprivnica and the chain from a bunch of garbage being brought to Koprivnica Ivanec is the garbage that brings the money, and the money primarily to his godfather, which has been paid a million bonus, means, from the delivery of the garbage. Why doesn't Mayor Koren protect the interests of children attending kindergarten in Kalnik? I have to admit, it's completely incomprehensible to us. Not only does he not want to help with the rights of children to a warm meal, he points out that it is not in his jurisdiction. We believe that such behaviour of the mayor is inadmissible so colleagues and colleagues, is it possible that politics is really breaking on the back of the youngest? It's really sad, and that's why I'm calling on the Ministry of Education to urgently solve this case, so the kids from the Kalnik Apple kindergarten are getting food from the kitchen from OS Kalnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101830	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101831	Okay, now, for a short time, we'll break up with the club's position and move on to applications for a position on behalf of the Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives' Club. The first is Mr Davor Vlaovic, who will speak for HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101832	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I want to talk about a problem that is very current in the media these days, and at the request of a number of Associations dealing with patient care, first of all, those suffering from diabetes in the Republic of Croatia. We at HSS are against an announced increase in the price of insulin and other products by patients, by persons treated with diabetes because we know that HZZA started a price-setting process a week ago and everything that has been published in the media and what has been provided to us by the Associations turns out that insulin and preparations will need to be collected to diabetics for patients and cheap for HZZO. It's unacceptable for us and it's a step back in treating this disease. I would like to visit you that even in February of this year, the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations warned of an unacceptable approach by the Government or the Ministry of Health and HZZO in relation to patients suffering from diabetes. They then said that in the Republic of Croatia, diabetes has been diagnosed with more than 284,000 of our fellow citizens, that there are still around 450 000 patients, that it is 1 out of 11 adults, suffers from diabetes, and that 1 in 2 people knows that they have diabetes, that 90% of the patients have type 2 diabetes, and that they are all potentially having problems with the complications of their medical condition, with heart problems, cardiovascular problems, kidney failure, blindness, limb amputation, and that there is the most important education and prevention. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have enough family doctors and there is one big problem that people and can not get to their doctor to advise him when he feels certain problems, so that he can be diabetes and start searching and treating. And plus, here's now the HZZO, or the announced changes in drug prices, are heading towards making it impossible for them to be available. They're already expensive for sick people. The most basic drug, somewhere one box costs about 100,00 kn. With these proposed changes, the price would grow on individual types of medicines from 153,00 kn to 350,00 kn, some at 453,00 kn and not on the burden of HZZO, but again on the back of patients, and we want the patient to be at the heart of the health system, to be all the measures facing it and to have a cheaper health system. We're not going to have a cheaper health system on this one, so the HZZO might be going through something cheaper than pharmaceuticals, but who's going to go through worse, patient. And not only that, it will go through worse and a whole society and our health system, and a pension and health fund because it will require more resources to treat these diseases as a consequence of diabetes. Cheapest is when it is invested in education and prevention, when patients are allowed to have a diagnosis in time, to have an available medicine. And you see what the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations has warned that it has already been unacceptable, to reduce their number of strips, to decide that they have to go to some cheaper strips, to decide that they have to go to some cheaper insulins even though they are the best insulins that the patient chooses with his doctor and who uses and regulates his status for years, has a good guess of having a quality life and not having his health complications happen. Simply this way they are forced to step backwards to go to some older medicines that will be cheaper for them, that they can pay financially, and then on behalf of, here, the Association that takes care of the sick children, I can only say, please reconsider the way this decision is done and the consequences of this decision, and in the case of diabetics, they are the same as the right to air and water because without them they can't live, so don't make Christmas insulin collection, but give them the right decision that they can be treated qualityly, and here, I recommend the minister to go then to that occultist to see that it's not good or to get a hearing aid to the Association when they say it's not good, because of the patient for health and for the health care system. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101833	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101834	The HSS representative club also asked for a statement of view, a representative of Mladen Madjer will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u101835	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he would like to address on behalf of Croatian road transporters from the meeting held on 26.11. at the HGK in Koprivnica. There we were warned about a possible proposal to close the border crossing for trucks weighing 7.5 tonnes from the Mursko Središce-Senkovec border crossing and Nedelisce-Trnovec border crossing. We know that it was a pre-election promise from Minister Butkovic that it was likely in a complaint from locals about the excessive burden.../ The speaker doesn't understand. The roads and means there's a motion to close these two border crossings. Car carriers have warned of a great deal of discomfort over the closure of the closure of these crossings means they are being disabled, the number of kilometers is increasing and costs are increasing. Clearly, we have a rule that they do not warn that the applicable regulation in the National Journal is 180/04 and 138/06 which speaks of transit and application only of this Regulation, which means applying the regulations which must be applied by the public service, and I primarily think about Croatian roads and police, where exactly it says in that regulation on the possibility of transit. And the possibility of transit means preventing external or other transporters that are not in from Croatia, preventing transit along that part of the road and making it impossible to cross those border crossings. So they're making it impossible to transport from other countries and there's gonna be less traffic around these border crossings. So only the application of this regulation that must be implemented by state institutions is primarily meant by the police and Croatian roads will be reduced by traffic through these border crossings. I clearly don't know if the Ministry of Transport talked to Slovenia, meaning that I don't know at which stage, it could happen by chance that they don't have a ban on the other side of the truck coming from Slovenia, which would cause traffic on the team, at those border crossings if trucks had to come back, they would have to get them back from the border. So, here I am asked by the Croatian Road Transporter Association to warn against closing these border crossings, because there will be some difficulties, we will create a problem for the car carriers, there will be a closure of the company from individual car carriers, and we know what our situation is in the economy, and I think that it is in order for the transporters to work, to have jobs, to hire drivers, to hire people. Here, this is one example of how state institutions function, as well as road loads as I come from the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, I hope that the continuation of the road will finally be built between the Križevci – Koprivnica and that there will certainly be not two lanes, as announced, but that there will be 4 bands, so that there will be no more of this burden happening at these border crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106153	So we have another point. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the rental and purchase of business space. That's second reading, bill number 395. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Economic Affairs and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Goran Maric, please, Minister of State Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106154	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space. Before the summer break, we had a debate in the first reading where I must say that both parent committees and other interested committees supported this law in the first reading. In the second reading, there were no major remarks, but here, just to begin by pointing out what the problem was and why it was even approach to making amendments and supplementing the existing law. Currently in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia owned by the Ministry of State Property has at its disposal a business space managed by the Ministry of State Property 6871 business space today. A total of 491 thousand 880 square meters. The revenue generated in this space was an average of 11 kn per metre square metre. 5213 business spaces are used without legal basis. So of 6871 even 5213 is a user without a legal basis, 1316 is empty space, and with the foundation of the Ministry of State Property, with that day, here 2 years ago we had a total of 6871 business space only 86 contractually regulated status with... Only 86 contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The users who were invoiced using the business space were 2409. 5.5 million kuna was invoiced monthly. 988 procedures for forced collection and return of property in the Republic of Croatia were launched at the State Attorney's Office. Today we have 247 contracts, we have opened 21 contests in these year and there is a higher income than those 21 competitions where a total of 32,000 squares have been rented than almost for all of the so far spaces in 491 000 squares. The average price reached by the Ministry of State Property is 55 kuna per metre per square month for the lease on a public tender. That was all, only these indicators suggest that it was necessary to approach the amendments and additions of the existing law and resolve this relationship. Most of these unsettled relationships are actually showing that the real user has no relationship with the Republic of Croatia, there's always someone by comparison, almost usually someone by comparison. The user pays the rent on some third basis of a contract in business cooperation, based on the franchise contract, on lying, on business cooperation but the real user does not pay the Republic of Croatia. We've had cases that the user pays 10, some third, and that third salary of the Republic of Croatia one, that's that ratio roughly. It's just that there's been a situation that needs to be handled. In our first reading, we explained what was changed, so this is the first time in history that the Republic of Croatia has passed, proposing that the law be banned from subletting. When you put a business space into lease then there's no more sublets. He can't make money on the Republic of Croatia. Finally, criteria were given which business space owned by the Republic of Croatia can be sold to the current tenant. And the prescribed space will not be sold. No space will be sold if they meet 4 cumulatively set conditions. If they are located in zero, in the first zone of cities and municipalities, if the street spaces with a window overlooking the street side, if they are located abroad and if the value of the lease for 15 years is equal to or greater than the estimated value of the property. The sale of space owned by the Republic of Croatia will no longer be able to be charged on the payment of the payment of the payment but solely on one-off payment. There are commercial banks that finance purchases and other investment activities and if the Republic of Croatia sells something, then it must charge for it one time. In the second reading, there were no major changes, but we were asked to talk to the units of local and regional self-government which we accepted because in the amendments to the law, the conditions under which the business space is purchased and owned by the Republic of Croatia, we did not change such terms and conditions to the units of local and regional self-government. However, the units themselves through the talks insisted that we install the part relating to the Republic of Croatia, that it also applies to units of local and regional self-government. Of course we accepted that, so this is the main change that what was worth in the first reading applied to the business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, now also applies to business premises owned by units of local and regional self-government. In my first reading, I also emphasized in this second reading, the spaces that I said, 6871, how many of them were illegally used, how empty, how little commercialised, how minimal the economic effect is in relation to the potential, that this is a major social problem, that this is an economic problem, that this is a legal problem, that this is a political problem. But the law itself doesn't keep the slightest trace of politics. He is the law of general interest, he protects no one but the Republic of Croatia. And finds, gives a legal framework to get out of this vicious circle that lasts for 30 years and unlawful use, the will that rules in the area of business space across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I said and I'll repeat, this is not a law or an interest group or... Nor lobbyists, this is a law of state interest, this is a law of general interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all the remarks that were made, we took the advice and through the second reading, so I don't think there's any reason why this law should not be adopted and that it would not happen as it was in the Law on State Property Management, when individuals said they only had two objections, so they gave two amendments, we accepted those two amendments and then those same individuals didn't want to vote for the law, then it's politicizing and it's not necessary for the level of awareness when it comes to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106155	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mr. Vlaovic. No, no, it used to be Mr. Lovrinović, well, then Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106156	I don't know why Mr. Vice President you keep throwing me on my tail today, at the end of things. Your Honors Minister, I have long not increased the pressure in this assembly but during your opening speech when you said that state-owned business was held as in one barn, so much crime smells like there's in this business that I can't come to myself. I will already send you today or tomorrow a representative question in which I will ask you to publish the names of individuals and companies that have been given along with 5 times as you quote 11 kuna instead of 55 kuna square feet of business space to see what these were clientelistic links between the ruling structures that are now defending each other and that we help me solve this problem from the opposition because obviously the top of this government does not want to solve it. I now believe here why people write to me more and more that the naked island needs to be opened but no more for political statements than for those who have, so crime is spent on clientelism because this country is choking on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106157	Time, time, Mr. Lovrinović, and I don't keep throwing you away, but I didn't see you, but my associate saw you and I was kind to you in the morning and you have no right to answer to me like that. You want to answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106158	Thank you very much. Agent Lovrinović, I had completely normal pressure all 57 years before I became Minister of State Property and until I saw this as well. But pressure disturbances and pressure oscillation must not affect decision rationality and rational approach. And it can't affect anything. It's not some kind of clienteleism, I'm sure I can say that. It was institutional indifference, not everyone uses the situation. From a broken tree, everyone tries to tear off which trees. So I don't think it was in some kind of political agreement, it was simply a derelict area, it didn't care, so it was illegally moving in as someone arrived and as who used it. And it's not just the past, it's the present, but we're still preventing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106159	Mr. Vlaovic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106160	Thank you, Vice President, and distinguished ministers with associates. Here we from the Croatian Peasants' Party welcome that this area is finally settled because for many years we have been warning of this crime, the inequality between craftsmen and entrepreneurs. There have been multiple correspondence and crafts chambers that this unfair competition is part of what individuals close their turns for. And many crafts were closed in Croatia precisely because some who were privileged to use state space, did not pay rent, did not legally regulate their space and therefore could not be competitive, or were competitive with their colleagues. And that has to end. And I want to know how many of these 978 procedures have been completed and how many penalties have been charged on behalf of the HSS is that for those areas where the public tender does not find an interested tenant to be given to young entrepreneurs, beginners for 1 kuna, so that they can start their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106161	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106162	Thank you very much. Representative Vladovic, of course, is unequal to those who have been leased space for the same activity with whom the one who entered the neighborhood is illegally and has not been paying for years but that is history. And with the application of this law, everyone becomes equal and there will be no such discrimination. That is why we have finally prepared amendments and additions to the Law on Hire and Shopping to put everything in the same equal position. There are no privileged ones. And we will help both economically and legally and economically because competitiveness will certainly rise to a higher level. When you say, when you asked me about 988, here's the information 156 is returned to business space owned by the Republic of Croatia of 988 that was launched. Unfortunately, such actions take a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106163	Thank you very much. Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106164	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would first of all like to thank you for a series of remarks from the first reading that you have accepted both in this and in the following task. Really what you said the ministry was open and they can testify, absolutely and all those who read in the end line. What I haven't been able to find is related to the remark I had in the offer of a extension contract. So we were at the initial reading offered an opportunity or made an obligation for local self-government to have that obligation and the state did not. Whether it's even or not meant for the existing tenants, just to explain it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106165	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106166	Thank you very much. We are not only declared open but also practical and every rational example we have really accepted, especially all remarks. And this case is solved. So everything that applies to the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia is also worth the same criteria for local self-government units. And all at their request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106167	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr Tomislav Klaric in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. He's got it, don't lose your right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106168	... Which is why the debate on this law, I think the strongest argument was made by the Minister in his opening statement when he mentioned only 86 contracts in the State's Attorney's Office, 988 procedures, and where it was found that most of the users who actually used some space do not pay rent of such space. [[Specially enabled.]] I would like to express here what we both heard on the Committee on Local Administration and Self-Government two sentences yesterday. It is necessary to express the satisfaction and to commend both the ministry and the ministry staff who prepared this agreement to be ready to talk even more at the ready to accept the remarks. So, the first proposal for a contract to read the law, first our first debate, then the committees that worked here were only business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. During the debate, the question was raised as to what was accepted with the areas of units of local self-government, regional or regional self-government, but the fact itself through the debate was then accepted on the other committees and the final law entered into this proposal and the units of local self-government and what we talked about all the time was respected. So, the debate that came from the first reading, the discussion on committees, the suggestions in front of the associations of cities, the municipalities and then the committees themselves were accepted in the most part, and I think at this point we have received a concrete law that will be on the ground and how applicable. What is ahead of all of us, so the units of local self-government but also the Ministry of State Property is that we finally have a real list, a real register, and that we know exactly what everything is available to all of us because the fact is that all these years, practically since 1993, and here, along with the unsettled cadastre, along with the unsettled land books, the unit of local self-government, the regional area, and the ministry has never had any real and accurate data on what everything is available, and it is a huge wealth that practically did not bring its fruits to cities or municipalities, therefore, to the residents themselves, and not to the State budget. This kind of thinking of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of State Property is in any case well, should be supported and here is the Club of Representatives, as soon the vote will not be due with my debate, since, through first reading and on all committees, the law is acceptable and we vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106169	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash's turn in front of the GLASs Club and HSU, she's gone, she's losing her right. Third Mr. Tulio Demetlika, IDS, PGS and IRI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106170	Thank you, sir. I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished ministers and state secretaries, respected colleagues, fellow MPs, here I will join my colleague Klaric to express on behalf of the club IDS and PGS and RI, the satisfaction of the promoter through open communication, particularly with the profession with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Economy, to accept a large majority of the comments and proposals made, as well as all those proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, and in particular that, at the request of the Committee on Local Self-Government, a working meeting with the Association of Cities. [[Intruder: Not the Rijeka Lists, please.]] I feel the need to highlight the fact that, at the meeting of the Committee on Regional Self-Government, following the proposed amendments and promises by the proposings, they will be incorporated to agree unanimously on this final draft of the law. It is particularly good that the proposal is accepted that this law also applies to the affairs of premises owned by units of local self-government which did not contain the basic proposal of the law. And respecting the comments and proposals received, which resulted from the example of good practice at local level, a significant step has been made in the quality management of areas owned by the state, cities and municipalities. And I must say and commend the ministry, the minister with his associates that this is exactly how work should be an example of good practice and other ministries because this is the best way to get quality and enforceable legal regulations in the truth. There is indeed a public debate involved, out of the profession what I said crafts, economic chambers, means all interested entities to obtain these business premises either in the lease or in the purchase. But not only are we in IDS not quite 100% satisfied with this final draft of the law, because we believe that we still do not have that goal that we keep repeating here in the assembly, that an even higher degree of decentralisation has not been achieved. We believe that even in this case decentralisation of the management of business spaces, whether they were owned by the state, the unit of local self-government that should have simply been left to them to manage, and unfortunately this law did not offer it. We believe that the units of local self-government in whose premises are precisely these spaces that cities and municipalities and professional services in these administrations, no doubt know best how to put them into office. I believe that it was necessary to prescribe that cities and municipalities are investigating contracts for the lease or sale of a business space which would allow the competent ministry to disburse from additional administrative jobs, and enable cities and municipalities to put those premises in place in a high-quality manner. Of course we're not against the state. The Ministry is left with control packages and tools and part of the financial resources from sales and leases, but it is mandatory to leave some of these funds to cities, i.e. the units of local self-government that have invested and which still invest their financial resources in municipal infrastructure for the purposes of these facilities. Because we have two ministers in the government, one Minister Maric, who just left the assembly, who is known for what he takes in his proposals for legislation and tax reform to the units of local self-government, and we expect from the other Minister Maric, here he gives. to get something back to the local self-government units. Unfortunately, the practice is repeated that there is insufficient confidence in local self-government units and thus they are deprived of that management but also of financial resources for jobs for which they really need to be in their jurisdiction. So we will again have the situation now that in Zagreb i.e. in the ministry to open a tender which will be published somewhere in the morning and evening list on the Ministry's pages but those who fail to follow will have no information that this competition is happening in the local self-government unit in question. We will continue to have the need to deliver various beliefs and certificates in Zagreb leading to unnecessary complications for both citizens and local communities and for the competent ministry. Once again, representatives from local self-government and citizens will have to walk to Zagreb to realize their project, now I'll be a little sarcastic, and I'll say that it suits the government, because it's fuel consumption, it's benefiting the state, it's paying toll again, it's all going to the country's budget, but at the same time it's increasing all the costs to all those who come and pilgrimage unfortunately to Zagreb, and it's also losing a lot, a lot more time. The minister very often stresses in his statements the need to employ 200 people to implement the outlined objectives of the ministry, I will comment that a bunch of administrations in the centre of Zagreb, which is contrary to that policy of equal development of the Republic of Croatia because we are again strengthening the centre, we are strengthening Zagreb, instead of if these people are needed to perform these jobs evenly to be distributed in the counties, so we have even development and if we have 20 counties, 200 people share it, and then we will get to hire 10 people on average in every county, not to centralize everything again in Zagreb. One more thing that the minister announces, I believe it will come to this, that the state administration's office with county seats, with a certain reform, will join the counties, and then we will strengthen the county offices, then with one future amendment of the law, we can leave these offices in order to once again give the public sector a service closer to the citizens, entrepreneurs who want to realise their projects, and that would be a much more significant move towards decentralisation for us. But I do know often from the ministry not only the competent minister Marić but from others when we talk about decentralisation it is often said that we would leave it to the units of local self-government only not all units of local self-government and county at this level of efficiency and development, have no personnel, have no profession that can satisfy these demands and can agree there, because we also see it through this register that is being introduced for property, that there are a large number of units of local self-government that have not updated their property to date and therefore it is good to pass this other law, but what I wanted to say is why we propose asymmetric decentralisation such as the Law on legalisation and the issue of a building permit. We have examples where certain cities and counties have taken these jobs from the state, are doing them neatly, and those who were unable or did not want to accept it continue for the sake of the state. And that is why I propose to the ministry that in one future amendment and the addition of this law, the possibility is predicted and that for every small space of 10, 15, 30 squares, I do not know how to run in Zagreb, but to leave it simply to manage the local self-government. And that later I do not take up time again, given that today's session is limited by time, I will immediately link this debate to the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property. It is positive that this law will finally update all public property, I purposely said public, whether it is state, municipal, city, county, whether it is owned and owned by state or local self-government units that we have it in one place, that we know exactly what property we have and what its value is. So, I mention, regardless of property, we have all the public property on the list in one place. But when I mentioned that property, I should say that it was once social property, and we have to say that this social property at one point was owned by the units of local self-government, but then by government decision, that property was transferred to state property. Let us remember when the apartments were sold then one part of the assets of the sale of these apartments ended up in the state budget and one part in the budgets of the local self-government units. And that is why we have proposed that the same way is applied to this part too. The same formula of the allocation of these funds because local self-government units are still obliged to provide, maintain and build new complete infrastructure. And I think that's why I said that Minister Maric could return something from this with the defined purpose of investing in municipal infrastructure. Finally, I have to say that the IDS, PGS, RI will still support both laws because they will allow better quality management of business space than they are right now. I believe that the amendments we proposed on the Committee on Local Self-Government yesterday will be accepted because with these amendments, we have achieved some flexibility and we have created the difference between renting business premises to the state and those owned by local self-government units. For what reason? Because I also said that the state was simply driven by economic justification and they are looking at the economy as much as they can get out of these business spaces. Local self-government units have one more condition, and that is the condition that they meet the needs of their citizens, and I am particularly thinking about meeting the needs of a craft of deficiting professions. We have, for example, today. I'm going to leave the carpenter, and that carpenter is a deficiting profession that can certainly be profitable, and he just needs to be offered a space that is publicly owned under more favourable conditions. But at the very end I want to repeat that as a club IDS-PGS we are not fully satisfied because we were expecting an even higher degree of decentralisation, but regardless of the big steps these two laws have been achieved and we as a club will support these two proposals of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106171	Now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn in front of the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Here, my colleague Demetlika made it very easy for me to argue because I won't have to repeat some of the things he said, only I don't understand how, after a whole series of remarks that were made, and we're going to make other remarks, anyone can support this Law. So we were already talking about a serious problem, which is that instead of going closer to the citizens and our entrepreneurs to the state administration, we will also have to come to Zagreb for 10 m2 spaces. That doesn't make sense, because it could be done by those on the ground who have both capacity and knowledge for it. And when I say that, I'm not saying it by heart, but I'm saying it as someone who's in his own town, in his unit of local self-government, it's the city of Pula, for four years he's been running a real estate commission and also a commission to rent business space, so we know something about this matter. Many units of local self-government are far better, more transparent, faster, more efficient, etc. in real estate management and availability, rather than the Republic of Croatia. And instead of going to an operation where local self-government would take over for the state to do this job, instead of doing it through the centralized ministry, we don't use it, we go all the way the way we do, even though every day, as Parliamentarians, we have opportunities to listen to complaints from citizens, we have opportunities to listen to complaints from entrepreneurs who have real estate management problems. You have absurd situations that, for example, for the service of the road, if that path should go over a property owned by the Republic of Croatia is not directly within the reach of this Act, but is close to the problem, you must ask the Ministry to come to that. And it takes you a few months, and you simply want to register the service of the road and talk about amounts that move 1,000,00 kn, 2,000,00 kn, 5,000,00 kn fee. But if I don't keep going on what my colleague Demetlik said before me, I'm going to point out some of the problems this law will create in practice, which is why we at the SDP's club won't be able to support. Art. The 6th, the tenant is not entitled to a business space or part of a business space to be leased, unless otherwise agreed. And that's a good provision. And it's supposed to be. But what we're saying in St. 2 is that it's not worth it to the state. Therefore, local self-government units will be able to negotiate with the tenant that a certain part of the business space can be leased, but the Republic of Croatia will not. So, the Republic of Croatia will lease some big property, 1000, 2000, 5000, 10,000 m2 in which an industrial drive could be opened, for example, God forbid, something to produce a car, but this industrial power carrier won't be able to open up 10 m2 in business space, even if the state has no obstacle to subleting or with some to arrange business cooperation for anyone to install, contribute or do something like that. I think this provision is too restrictive and I believe that the same provision that applies to the local self-government unit should also apply to the Republic of Croatia. In short, Art., Pardon, No. 2. The 19th is completely unnecessary, it should have remained only on what is stated in St. 1st, and this is a sublet it can, but only if it is specifically agreed and then of course if there is agreement of the Republic of Croatia as the owner of the property. However, this is a minor problem with the law. A much bigger problem comes into art. On the 9th of this Act, which is amended by Art. 36th. In order to understand why this is a big problem, we need to go back a few days, we need to talk about the rebalancing of the state budget for 2018, and we need to be aware that the Ministry of State Property has not achieved its plans. So our plans for selling and cashing out those state-owned assets that are not perspective have not been achieved. Why? There's a lot of reasons for that. Of course, from the economic situation, from the economic power of our entrepreneurs, etc., to the administration. And then what are we doing? Instead of making it easier for our citizens and entrepreneurs to acquire the right of ownership of the real estate they need to work, we make it difficult and make it significant. One, we've abolished the possibility of buying a business space, whether owned by units of local self-government, whether owned by states, into wars. I accept that the state can say for itself we business spaces will not sell on wars, on payments, etc. But imposing the units of local self-government that same restriction, if units of local self-government are prepared to help their entrepreneurs in this way, is totally unacceptable. So, according to this law, there is no longer any possibility of buying out a business space on the wars during a certain period of time, but only bring money, pay and go. With that, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the 2018 plan he failed, in 2019, you can immediately point out as a zero because we're not going to achieve anything. But as it used to be with those commercials, that's not all, there's more. The deadline for payment is only 30 days from the date of conclusion of the contract. Since the ransom for the wars has become impossible, all those who do not have the financial means to pay once out of their pockets for the purchase of a business space, which is, we will agree extremely little, will have to resort to the contract and the conclusion of the loan agreement. And there's not a single bank that'll guarantee you that this loan contract will pay you in 30 days. Most of them will, but they won't guarantee it, and by law if you haven't paid the 31st day, there's no payment fee, there's no extension, the contract is considered broken by law. And if someone were to pay on the 31st day, the State Attorney's Office could, in the event that the Treaty is subsequently executed and the right of ownership transferred, with full right, against officials, whether local self-government or state administration, initiate proceedings for abuse of office and authority because it violated the provisions of the law. A reasonable deadline, if you don't already accept that it remains a payment to the wars, as it has been in all the laws of 1996 on here, should be 90 days because then we're sure that the loan agreement will also take place, etc. make it happen. But if you think it's over, it's not. We have St. 3rds, although according to our positive regulations for the validity of the Treaty which acquires the right to property over real estate is necessary for the seller's signature to be only certified, we here demand that he sign We demand [[/Agreement: Excuse me, sir, please a little silence, you can't hear what the representative representing the SDP is saying, please.]] I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, therefore, to repeat, although according to the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia for the validity of the Real Estate Buying Treaty, it is necessary that the seller's signature is only certified by the public notary, we are looking for a soloization here for the validity of this Treaty, without even being clear why it is required. [[Intruder: Please, I know that for a long time, some of you have not seen each other, but please]] In the contract where the sale was arranged for the wars, it was clear why it was necessary to solemnize because it was then an executive document. And if someone does not pay their dues, on the basis of a solemnized Treaty, they can move directly into the payment of the obligations of the buyer of the business space. However, when we have introduced a one-time payment obligation, there is no need for that, if you pay, you have paid and the property is yours. If you do not pay, the contract is terminated by law. What is the result of the solemnisation which will, above all, enable our potential customers to acquire a business space, impose a cost that, instead of 40 or 50,00 kn for verification, comes 1,000 kn, 2000,00 kn or more kuna, depending on the value of the business space. Completely unnecessary and just extra burden on entrepreneurs. As I was saying, my colleague Demetlika made a series of remarks before me, we will not repeat ourselves, with these remarks that I have made, it is quite clear that this Law, not that it is not progress, but is an additional burden for users, and especially for our entrepreneurs who would like to acquire ownership of the business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, is a burden on the Republic of Croatia because it will make it difficult to achieve the revenue that our state budget needs and I do not see any, but no logical, logical justification for why this Law would support me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106173	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106174	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break for the club's voting consultations for the IRS, about the IRS. Because unfortunately, the Honorable Chairman, I cannot be taken from the impression that today's ruling populists are all populists. So they promise from mandate to mandate everything they don't eventually meet. They promised 180,000 jobs, except they didn't tell us that these jobs were in Ireland, Germany, Austria. They promised to withdraw money from the European Funds, and they didn't tell us they weren't able to do it on the other hand to raise the expenditures of the state, they announced the next Mr. For 6 billion kn, they spend more than they earn, while, on the other hand, entrepreneurs through the same tax laws, leave for mercy and mercy. Therefore, the state will be charged before the entrepreneur is charged and threatened in such a way. I really don't understand why tax laws can't be better, they can't be a charge for entrepreneurs, they can't be used for economic development. And what I really don't understand, is not a single amendment that came out of the opposition good enough for the ruling one? I followed closely the finance minister, it could be seen at certain times that the minister was uncomfortable, because certain amendments should be rejected. Because the rule of this government and their president is for the way all amendments are rejected, no matter how good they are when they come from the opposition. Because it seems that for this government and for this country, the most important thing is that there is an appraisal capital, so from then on you'll be able to pull something out. Please consult the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106175	Okay. You have the right to a break. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, then we'll take a break by 12.15 hours. It's 12.08 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106176	We will now return to the point we discussed, so let me remind you, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space, we have one Club of Representatives left, that is the CNS in the name of which the Honored Representative Stjepan Curaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106177	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106178	Excuse me, before you begin, just to remind us all that we are time-limited due to the need to arrange the hall for this international conference, here you go, which, of course, does not limit your time and no time to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106179	Well, that seems to be the fate of these two laws in the first reading, I don't know if it was the same maybe a few of us then very really short. So, generally when we talk, we think that this intensity and the legislator and above all what comes out of this law, and that's certainly a little bit more order, especially there, and we all know that from some practice where someone nominally went into some lease and gave it to a sublet or used in a state space, but not just a state space, because it's a minor problem. Even though we've had enough here, and it's already been the minister several times and said that you don't know exactly who's where and what's where the entire foundation of state property is, how it's used. And only when we are buried beneath the surface of the units of local self-government and not even the city of Zagreb, would there be anything but all over Croatia. Then certainly with this law we will introduce more order, more responsibility, system and of course justice, and especially not to speak any illegal ones, which is already under current laws and normative regulations, and somehow the practice that exists is found. Thus, there is no longer the possibility of banning, or here being introduced, the ban on subletting business space, as well as some business technical cooperation which in fact avoided this article in one way or nominally prohibiting subletting space. So and here clearly in this law it states that it will break by force... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's actually here is, which is the very meaning of this law that we want. We want to put as many of these spaces as possible, and we should put as many business spaces on the market, in business use, incentivise the economy, ensure the safety of those who are there, in the long term, that they do not have to think that they will, what they will do, bind their production, their sales or whatever they are doing in those areas, the services they are doing. And I think what's best and what we always say all the time is not, I don't know exactly that's the exception to the rule that the state is a good master. The state is always in some of these special things and troms and not a good master, and I think we should get rid of all those non-operational assets that don't serve the state, as we're talking about business spaces now, we've also talked about certain ownership stakes in some non-strategic companies when we talk about it. Because the state has nothing to involve in the market either renting or renting those areas that are not of national importance. And when we talk about, first of all, state importance, it means some institutions and what we want it to be. And that's why it's just put on, otherwise I'm in the first reading and I'm asking when we're talking about what the criteria for deciding what business space is going to go into, on that buy list, so it's very simple, very easy when someone comes in on a regular basis, regular pay, rent, which they've been fighting in the competition, there's no tails behind them, it's going to be that real estate if it meets these conditions put on the list, and it's going to be able to buy that property. What are now further criteria, I have a little debated in the first reading that may be too strict, i.e. that very little space will remain actually which will not be on that list because of the 4 criteria that are in... , to the first zone of the city, it is one that business spaces with a window that looks on the street side, means that practically all office jobs, or office spaces, have been thrown out in a very large number of cases are office jobs not the ones that have windows, that are located in the countryside, ground floor, whatever you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then what's most important, whose value of the lease in 15 years is equal to or greater than the estimated value of the property. So where the calculation is then in 15 years, so they're not going to be on the list, where in 15 years you'll be able to get more than rent than you can sell, it's not going to be for sale to just end up with some speculative, market relationship or some speculative action. So on the other hand, I think a lot of space is going to get into that story, that a lot of our users, the businessmen, are going to get the opportunity to be on their own, to plan their business, to have one security and long-term, and I think we're getting an operational, more implementing, more quality, more quality opportunity to actually carry out economic activities, in the extreme line of our economy. What's good is that, in my first reading, I said the same thing that we had double criteria, and that's confirmed by the minister that there's no difference between local self-government and state governments anymore, so they're all the same criteria because we had in that first proposal that somewhere, basically local self-government units have to do something. So when we talked here about the wars, my colleague Grbin is no longer here and I'm the first one who said it might not be good to put a reckoning in which actually the unit of local self-government has to accept it and then someone can calculate it for 15 years and offer in wars and give the highest price. So neither the cost of money involved nor anything else. This leaves him, of course, with the possibility that he can come up with a loan and buy those funds with the same loan where he follows that price of money, and that the unit price is actually the one that is the ultimate, final one that he pays. Of course, these 30 days I've asked myself the same question, he says, they assure me that it's enough because it's not 30 days from the day of the decision-making process, but 30 days from the day of the contract conclusion and there's also one, one time-out where he can slowly pass all the necessary papers, all that he needs to do by contract to go to a bank where the bank could also register on that simple if it's all clear and that he gets the funds he's committed to the public tender, so that's the doubt we've ruled out, and I think that's good. Because that part of me wasn't very good because it first applied only to JLS and on the other hand, we'd have this kind of hidden subsidy, especially JLS, where it's consistent with some other laws, so I think this solution is extremely, extremely good. As far as some things are concerned, I will repeat once again that it is self-employed people who have this, I think, that it is very good because, in fact, in Article 1(2), the possibility of giving that space without a public competition is lifted for those who are users. And I think the only thing that ended here, which I noticed... I think it's either an article or a 7 or a 9, so I'm going to tell you exactly, so Article 5 of the apology, which applies to Article 6, paragraph 5, means that I see that the change from the first reading when the tenant doesn't file a written request within the deadline that we predetermined and goes to the competition, he was actually in the original proposal to have the right to hire, now this has been omitted because in itself it means if he didn't show interest that then the subsequent mind is no longer recognised, I think that's quite all right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, of course, the HNS Club will support these changes, and I thank you once again for all these accepted proposals, in fact, where we really did, we threw out almost all the difference between the units of local self-government and the state itself. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106180	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to appear is the honourable representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here, we can say that this is one of the laws in the series that gives meaning to the work and direction of the Ministry of State Property. Property owned by the state as well as units of local self-government is a huge capital and every legal framework that will make a step forward and manage this property gives concrete solutions and a more effective approach to solving the problem. Many cities and municipalities have no problems with the lease to buy business premises, since they have no state property at all. But they have their own property. This law will facilitate these units of local self-government in a specific case. This law will put an end to those who interfered with space. So they would try to avoid paying their obligations in a way that would transfer space to another or third person. Well, he also doesn't carry out obligations, and then he shifts to who knows who and thus creates one circle, one vicious circle, and a forest of problems that all together can't see the end. Therefore, it is necessary to welcome the ministry's efforts, and thus the government, to introduce order in this area, which, through the bill, makes several important steps, as well as my colleagues, will set out some. No more sublets of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia or regional self-government units. No sublets. They break up in speeches, which the tenants thus gave to another person and to use and by this law, by force of the law. A business space may only be sold to a tenant, who has a contract, either the Republic of Croatia or the Republic of Croatia or the City or the Municipality, if all the obligations under the contract are met in order. The premises are sold publicly, at the competition. Under the law, a list of business premises will be created, which will be sold, thereby increasing the revenues of the state budget, as well as local budgets. That's the part that needs to be emphasized. And it brings them precisely to these laws, this bill of law. And most of all, what we've heard many times, here, is that this law will introduce order. That it will clear up what we say, that for years it has been as the minister himself says, as one barn. So for every commendation, this proposal that no matter how many colleagues agree or disagree, even at the local level, will give us an advantage over what we had. And we're going to be open, so we're sure to say that the smaller units of local self-government have smaller problems, and the larger cities and municipalities, where thousands of business spaces are, which in the state-owned area, are certainly going to have similar issues, as we heard today, why there is no me left, why the city doesn't have why the municipality doesn't have, etc. I believe and believe that such an attempt, a good attempt, is primarily in clearing up what is state property, which is local property and how best it can be managed under both what conditions and how business space can be drowned in the sublet and under what conditions. Here, I welcome this law and the Ministers, all honors on such a resolute and direct face-to-face with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106182	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mate Čička.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106183	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The application of the applicable Law on the rental and purchase of business space has proved insufficient. It has been established that a solution under the applicable law cannot meet the criteria of successful management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local regional and regional self-government. The applicable law cannot meet the criteria for controlling users of business premises, the amount of leases as well as the inability to sell business premises, directly to the tenants. The applicable law stipulates that a tenant of business space, does not have the right to sublet that space, but in reality it happens. For example, by means of a commercial representation contract, which gives business space owned by the Republic of Croatia to the use of third parties and thus in reality sublets business space, this is why it is obvious that the Republic of Croatia or the local or regional self-government units for these business premises could have received higher amounts than those that... The current law also allows the direct sale of the business space to the user or the tenant of the business space, if it uses it without interruptions for at least 5 years and if it meets all the obligations under the lease agreement in that time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the law was passed to this day, no business space has been sold in this way. For these very reasons we have today in front of us the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Rental and Buying of Business Space, these amendments and additions are now being arranged by contracts will be broken by force of the law, business premises will be given to real users for use with the conclusion of contracts directly with them. The law will also regulate the issue of sales of business spaces, introducing clear criteria allowing adequate and rapid sales that will enable the end-user to finally become the owner of that business space he uses. This will reward those who have a lease agreement who meet their obligations under the contract in order to meet their obligations as well as other financial obligations. It is also positive to see that the public notice and the list of business premises that are the subject of the purchase as well as the list of those which are not to be sold, which has not been defined so far. This law will introduce major changes in the efficiency of state property management, as well as transparency. As head of the municipality, I am very pleased that this law will apply to property owned by units of local self-government, not only those owned by the Republic of Croatia as originally imagined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106184	Thank you very much, and now, we have one replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106185	I thank the Vice President, and since we are also at the end of the debate a brief matter of colleagues, Cicak. Since you have actually expressed satisfaction in your presentation that this law will also apply to properties owned by units of local self-government, and not only as originally imagined by those owned by the Republic of Croatia, I am interested that you as the head of the unit of local self-government specifically mean this legislative proposal, or what it brings to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106186	The answer of the esteemed representative, Chick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106187	I thank my colleague, first of all, I would like to thank the minister and the ministry for accepting the appeal of all associations, associations of municipalities and associations of cities to include in this law the ownership of municipalities, cities and counties. So we're going to have a clear criterion of how to solve this problem that has not been defined by the law so far, and I think it's very good, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106188	Thank you very much, and now finally on the law and on the debate something will be said by the respected Minister of State Property, Mr Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106189	Appreciable and respected MPs, thank you all for the debate, on both the first and second readings on concrete and proposals, thank you to everyone and for the commendations and recommendations, especially thanks to Agent Curaja, who has made the most proposals and whose proposal we have actually fully accepted and certainly that we get a better law out of it. I'm just hearing some dissonant tones here, the mayors and the mayors say one thing, and from the opposition lines we hear something else and what they say on behalf of the mayor and the mayor. They actually want what you don't want. We can't appreciate that it would be good for local self-government units to do what some representative wants, but what local self-government units want, and I don't really know who Mr. Grbin is representing, if we've negotiated with the leaders and the community of municipalities and cities and accepted all your suggestions. We've heard a lot of things today, here, somewhere, and it's gone to some local self-government units to give everything, nothing has been given to them, I can only say that more of this government and the Department of State property have been given in one day, one city and one county in the previous 25 years, in one day. That the Law on State Property Management was not so much a reform law passed in the Croatian Parliament concerning units of local self-government such as this law, that it passed ex-legation into the ownership of units of local self-government hundreds and hundreds of hectares of land and real estate, and that it allowed units of local self-government and regional self-government to donate real estate to anything that could improve the quality of life for housing, for stimulating housing, for social and public content, so far, not all laws had so far contained just how much of that law. And it's exotic and it's evidenceable and this law did not look at the political colour of the region, but at Croatia. We heard today that the Department of State's assets didn't meet the plan, that it called this morning that it didn't meet the plan. Only a few data, in 2017 the plan was for the Ministry of State Property in revenue from the sale of non-financial assets 91 million 450 thousand kuna, made 105 million 152 thousand, so the plan was transferred. In 2018, the plan was from the sale of non-financial assets 98 million 756 thousand kuna already reached earlier, although it is not yet the end of the year 185 million 208, and the government was sent a proposal to accept the most favourable offers for another 70 million kuna, hence more than 250% of the transferred plan. As regards the CERP plan, the revenues of the CERP in 2017 were planned at 863 million, 315 million kuna was achieved, but the shares provided for for sale were put into stock for the lending of companies Orljava, Petrochemia and Borova, three so many miniature productions remained in Croatia, the last production that employs more than 4,000 workers in production, based on the survival of the economy. I'm not sure it was better to sell shares or save those 5,000. And these shares now that they're fired, they're released, then they're going to get to the market, and then the plan will be implemented. For the 18th. Mr. Plan is... It was 932 thousand, already achieved, 932 million, already reached 400 million kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Almost 50%. With 255 million already from the sale of shares to the government, the proposal to accept... the bidder, therefore, almost a plan fulfilled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the implementation of the privatisation plan, everything that came from the CERP or the Centre for Restructuring and Sales to the Administrative Council has accepted. Of course, it's quite clear to me where this discrediting, diphasmation, fiction, planting and lies are coming from. I understand that completely. Every move I make, every move by the State Department, is a move against me. Because there's no move, after so many years where the state property was destroyed and abused and wrongly used, there's no move that hasn't hurt so-called. The rights that the lawless users of thousands and thousands of them have acquired. I expect only the rights of planting, but I am aware of it, and I have no fear of such. ... The Ministry of State Property, in order to protect state property, has been affected by many, but those who have learned to kidnap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But kidnapping is the past, no one will take away the property of the Republic of Croatia, no one else will. But, from the cover of Jutarnjiga or Vecernjeg or some other newspaper, due to the minister and conflict with the governor, there is no realisation of the sale of a military office in Novi Zagreb, Novi Zagreb, the military is not at all, it is not managed by the Ministry of State Property. The second day follows, because of the minister's argument, the dormitory building, i.e. for apartments, for scientific recruits, yawns empty for 10 years and the state property ministry has no contact with these buildings. If they were dedicated to us, we'd know what to do with those apartments. Then comes the title, buys HDZ votes, Mr. Demetlik, here's a witness, you've just commented, I'm buying HDZ votes, the most decisions and contracts I signed in Pula, Istria, not from you, not from you, but from you, but from you, and the headlines are screaming like that. Most of all, in Istria County, there are no majors or mayors from the HDZ ranks, but they are in Split's Dalmatian County and I signed contracts there, I did. But most of it is signed on 25 in Istria, and I signed three agreements in Pula on Monday worth 2.5 billion new investments. When was the last time he signed an agreement that would give rise to an assumption of realisation and investment of $2.5 billion in Pula, or somewhere else in another city. Mr. Grbin has been discussing, no amendment has been tabled, suggested. Not one. But why not? Because what he suggested is opposed by local self-government units, and he says you would want to. So he says and manipulates, that why the cost of the entrepreneurs to solmise the sales contract and there is no soloization on the purchase contracts, but only a certificate from a public notary who is a couple of kunas. Solmisation is on the lease contract, because it's necessary and it has to be, to make every... ensure that there is no payment or inability and no payment and use of the business space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a question of why not on credit, so because it's not an RH credit institution, it's a very clear answer. Everything else is politicizing. Imagine it was so far within the law that the Republic of Croatia would charge 4% of the interest. Well, that made sense? No, that's why we threw it out. He says, I also heard here from the SDP ranks that it must come to Zagreb, conclude a contract for rent or sell a business space in 10 squares. And why would the state mess up these premises when they have units of local self-government and they need to be transferred to them. And who founded the state property just to run those business premises? HDZ or SDP? The SDP founded it, the coat of arms or I, who founded it, and I'm called for it. What hypocrisy, that. And who had an unfavourable view of state property management during the time, body, during the management of the SDP or during HDZ? One of the few unfavourable opinions he had was legal... The Department of State Property, and it's no wonder it's an irregular opinion, which was everything there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there will be no more unfavourable solutions there. And it is no longer state property, property on no man's land, but property of the Republic of Croatia and will be protected in Croatian way. It's not the theme of apartments, but it's a similar situation, and this law will give rise to a multiplier effect. It will not be able to use lawlessly, the Republic of Croatia will more economically manage its business premises and have higher revenues, economic activity will increase revenues and local self-government units as units of local self-government will have from communal to income cuts. But most importantly, unfair competition will be overcome and normal, rational, loyal, market competition will be allowed. Thank you, everyone who supported this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106190	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106191	Thank you, Vice President. Very briefly respected minister, just one question, one question that has come to me, one situation, just to warn which one might happen. Namely, since they didn't have a number of lease contracts and 10 years ago, then, let's say now 5, 6, 7, 8 years ago, they were certain market conditions and prices, whether they were set by zones, city, whatever you want, quite favourable, and now we put that business space on the list of assets for sale, someone calculates that it's not worth it at all, because it's so low in price over what is market, that it won't even offer it, like the one who uses it, as a tenant, someone else can't, except that it doesn't put that space at the end of the contract at a new price or for sale, which might be even better because only here we don't defend that something going to sell, just to run that category, actually, means the competition that's on the list, is, because, if they're on the list, it doesn't mean that whoever't buy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106192	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106193	Thank you very much. Well, of course we're worried about that bill. Otherwise, at the age of 10, no one will be able to get a lease contract unless it's in the competition. At the competition. At the competition, do you know how many of these business spaces were in Croatia? You can count them on your fingers. All the competitions that were now held in 2018, 21 contests were implemented, and before that there were only 88 contracts. In total, the Republic of Croatia had 88 contracts. On the day we formed, founded the Ministry of State Property, for 6871 business premises, the Republic of Croatia had a regulated relationship only for 88 business spaces. That's what I inherited. But that's what we changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106194	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mate Chick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106195	The Honorable Ministers. As Secretary General of the Community, I must once again thank you for everything you have accepted on all our appeals regarding this Law. Here, in constant communication with all your colleagues and mayors, and the commissioners, I have not yet come across any objection regarding what has been going on in the last few months and here on behalf of all of us who are satisfied, I thank you for everything you have done lately and I can say that they are experiencing you as one of St. Nicholas, you come, you wear gifts, so here I expect you quickly in Rugvica. I must say that all of that, all of your instructions that we have received in the past, that you in the Ministry explain to us in what way, how, and that then everything goes your way, and about the land, and about the real estate, and for everything else, so I must commend your work, and this is also proof that it was necessary to establish this, one such ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106196	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106197	Thank you very much. You know the most common question, the first sentence that the mayor or chief has asked me, I have a case with you that hasn't been solved for 20 years. And the Ministry's only been around for two years. It's more resolved in a week's time, in a week's time than in the last 20 years, to local self-government units. There are records of how many mayors and commissioners have even had a meeting with the heads of the body of the state property ministry's legal predecessor, but they had no meeting at all. There are no mayors and commissioners I haven't had a personal meeting with, and we haven't told them that within 3 days when he asks for a meeting, he will be admitted to the Ministry of State Assets at the lowest level at the ministerial assistant level. Everything that can be solved will be settled by law, I don't think there's a city and a municipality who, if he completed the paperwork, and if it's based on the law, waits more than a month to get rid of his case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106198	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Tulia Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106199	The Honorable Ministers. I can agree with most of what you said, especially when you mentioned that they discussed differently in the Assembly, mayors, mayors or even former mayors compared to others, and we from the IDS Club, who are opposition Club, did not particularly in these topics that matter to local self-government units, ever behave to politicize or sell demagogy, but we tried precisely on the basis of our experiences, which we had in practice, to submit such remarks and suggestions, to get as high-quality law as possible. And what I resented about this Law is that what the IDS has been fighting for so many years, for an even higher degree of decentralisation and for certain powers to be transferred to local self-government units, because we think that it is really for some places that are not important for the Republic of Croatia, that it be transferred to governance, and that the state should continue to control, because we think that they are closer and that they can solve the needs of our entrepreneurs and citizens on the ground faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106200	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106201	Thank you very much. Thank you, Demetlika, for saying that you agree most of the time, but I did not hear what you disagree about, but, you know what, this is not the Law of Position or opposition, this is the Law for the Republic of Croatia, and I appreciate everything you have contributed to the debate to improve this Law, but I will just point out who is abstention from this Law, he is not for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106202	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Good morning, all of you. As planned and as announced today, we will also discuss amendments to the laws that were discussed during this week and amendments to the budget, the Budget Implementation Act. So we'll start with the amendments to the law first. The first is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Business Space, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 395, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, representative of Peja Grbin, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. I would like to ask the proposing's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, Honored State Property Minister Goran Maric. First, we will move to the amendments of the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106204	All four amendments to the Committees are accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106205	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. The next amendment is the amendment of the respected representative of Peja Grbin. It's an amendment. Amendment one first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106206	The First Government doesn't accept the amendment. The existing Article 19 thus provides that the business space must not be leased unless otherwise provided by the contract and that the sub-letting of the business space is duly applicable to the provisions of this law relating to... Article 6 of the final draft of the law amends Article 19 of the Law in such a way as to enable the sub-loaning of business space for leases between private persons and for the lease of business premises owned by units of local and regional self-government, provided that this is contractually agreed in the lease contract, whereas for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, an absolute ban on sub-letting is laid down, nor is it permitted for the tenant to give, on any legal basis, a third party to use or use a business space, for example by means of a business technical cooperation contract, a commercial representation contract and the like, in order to prevent any form of manipulation, the Government does not accept this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106207	Thank you very much. There is no respected Greek representative, so we will vote on that Monday as agreed. The following is the amendment of two respected representatives of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106208	The government does not accept because the Republic of Croatia and local and regional (regional) units of self-government are not credit institutions and should not allow the purchase of their business premises with the payment and calculation of interest and the final proposal for the law of the whole law deletes the possibility of payment of the payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106209	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the coat of arms is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106210	I apologize, Your Honor. Yes, I apologize, Mr. Vice President, but when we introduced this institute to be able to discuss amendments separately from the vote, you first stressed that this would not apply to the budget, the second you stressed that it would not apply to those situations where there are not too many amendments but I see that it is so difficult to collect most, that it is necessary to abuse the Rules of Procedure in this way. [[Intruder Reiner: This is about another amendment of yours.]] My apologies. It is a matter of serious stretching of the Rules of Procedure caused by the fact that it is so difficult to ensure the majority that we can have a vote in normal conditions, however, the amendments that I have submitted to the Law on the lease of business space are related to the fact that the proposed solutions do not contribute to entrepreneurs who would like to buy a business space or entrepreneurs who, in certain situations because of the ways in which they operate, enter into the nature of things in technical cooperation with third parties, I am fully aware that the Government does not respond, I will not continue to enter into an explanation but I am asking for a natural vote. [[Intruder Reiner: I must say immediately, this is not about breaking the Rules of Procedure.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106211	Thank you. The Honorable representative is also asking for a vote on the second amendment. We've already decided on the first vote. Thank you very much. The next amendment is the Amendment of the Club of Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106212	The amendment is not accepted by the Government because the practice has shown that the proposed provisions are necessary for the correct identification of the premises of the lease agreements, and the exact determination of the amount of the lease and therefore the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106213	Dear Representative Podolnjak, I think he'll answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106214	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the 2. We have proposed to delete the words, the number of land-based book particles and the land-based bookcase, etc., is a long definition, and is replaced by the words, the data from the land-based bookcase number of the land-based bookcase and all the data from the property and the owners in which the business space is undoubtedly identified. In fact, we think it's enough to identify a business space. We also suggested that we delete the proposed provisions from the wheel. 4 and 7, since it is completely inappropriate, in our opinion, to invade market relations that all the leases must be agreed in a monthly form and thus restrict the freedom to negotiate, so we ask for a vote on this to the Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106215	Thank you. We'll vote on him. Now Amendment Two Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106216	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions proposed by the Amendment would result in a mandatory call for tenders following the expiry of the lease agreement, with the advantage of the existing tenant, and the provisions of the Final Proposal of the Law provide that, at the end of the lease agreement concluded in a public tender, the latter will be extended to an additional 5 years under the same conditions as the tenant who regularly pays his or her obligations if the economic criteria are satisfied, i.e. if the lease is higher than the initial price that would be in the new competition for that space. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106217	Dear Representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106218	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5, i.e. Art. 6th, which is amended in paragraph 3rd, according to our proposal, it would be that the right to take advantage of the lease of a business space contract shall be granted by that tenant who, with the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local and regional self-government, has concluded a contract on the basis of a public tender and who fully fulfils the obligations laid down in the lease agreement when he or she has expired or has expired such a lease contract concluded on the basis of a public tender and if that representative, or the tenant, in his application, calls for a tender for that space for that right if he fulfils the conditions laid down in the tender, the conditions laid down in this Act and accepts the highest amount of the lease offered. The reason behind this amendment is that if the employee has the right to enter into the contract under the same conditions as the best bidder in the public tender, these provisions as proposed in the current provision, only wide open the door to the Ministry's discretionary assessment, possible corruption and red tape, and therefore we ask for a vote on our amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106219	Thank you. Now Amendment number 3 of the Representatives' Bridge Independent Lists Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106220	The Government does not accept the proposed Amendment because this is not about situations where 2 or more entrepreneurs offer offers to enter into contracts and enter into contracts with them, it is about situations where existing tenants sublet their premises through various contracts, financing other legal transactions, and it is really about subletting them, and therefore the contracts are not about names, but rather about, for example, their content which in any way gives a business space for use. This avoids any possibility of abuse of leases, and therefore we cannot accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106221	Dear Representative Podolnjak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106222	Thank you. Our Amendment proposing to delete certain items in Art. In 19th, the argument is that there are never examples of the Treaty in the law because it leads to legal uncertainty. On the other hand, the content of the Treaty determines the contract, not the name, and so on, if their content is identical to the lease agreement, the lease agreements are imminent and this is a meaningless provision. The worst of all is from a business perspective that is equal to subletting on exclusive use which must certainly be sanctioned and co- use, where some business premises or business partners are legitimately working together, but the primary tenant is doing the same in that space and it is absolutely unnecessary to sanction such relations because as a community of bidders, they would have received it under the same conditions, and this is how we prevent them from investing in real business cooperation, and we violate market freedoms. That's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106223	Thank you. We're moving on to the Amendment 4 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106224	The amendment is not accepted because the market price for a particular business space can only arise at the time of the conclusion of the buy-in agreement, and all the sooner is the estimated value determined by the court experts in accordance with the Real Estate Assessment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106225	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106226	With this amendment, we are in art. In accordance with Article 35(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The proposed amendment proposes that the sales price of the business space should not be below the market price, that is, the axiom. In this way, the possibility of malfeasance in the sale of business premises would be avoided. Simple logic, therefore, must not be less than the market price, that is the content of the Amendment and therefore we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106227	Next Amendment 5 Club Representatives Bridge Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106228	The government does not accept the proposed amendment because the text states that the decision to purchase is made by the mayor and mayor, Mayor, Mayor of the City of Zagreb or their representative body, depending on the value, and therefore the amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106229	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106230	The proposed legislative provision defines, i.e. that the municipal chief and mayor, or mayor, will make decisions on the sale of a business space owned by local self-government. However, we propose that it can only be in accordance with a special law. This is the Law on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government, which states in Article 48 that the executive body can make decisions on the sale only up to a certain level of budget and that is up to a maximum of 0.5 revenue without receipt in that budget of the unit of local self-government or up to a maximum amount of up to one million kuna. Therefore, any mayor or mayor has a restriction prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government and we have just proposed, so sales but in accordance with a special law, this law is an organic law, it is above this law which we are deciding today on amendments and therefore we propose to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106231	And the last amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Representatives of Independent Lists, 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106232	The government does not accept that, in general, it states that the existing owner must have fulfilled all obligations on the basis of the use of the business space and then only states which obligations they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106233	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106234	Thank you. In the amendment to Article 5, 15, which lists the costs of directing, compensation for the use of municipal fees, reserves, etc., and so on, we have proposed to replace the words costs from the basic use of the business space. We therefore believe that it is absolutely unnecessary to list a certain type of cost, but it is more logical and appropriate to put in place a general provision as we have proposed, because there are no similar examples in the law, so the formulation we propose is more qualitative, so we are asking for a vote on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106235	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property, second reading, P.Z. No. 393. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted and this is again Minister of State Property Goran Maric, please. First of all, the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106236	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106237	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 has been withdrawn and then we have an amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106238	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106239	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 has been withdrawn. And then we have an amendment to the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106240	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106241	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106242	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, second reading, P.Z. No. 395, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, representative of Peđa Grbin, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. We held a statement on the amendments at the meeting held on 30 November 2018. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government has been accepted. So four amendments were proposed by that committee, all four were accepted. Then we've got the amendment of MP Peja Grbin, he's tabled two amendments, and we'll vote. The first amendment of the respected colleague, Peje Grbina, is not accepted by the Government. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let us also vote on the second amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. We will now vote on 6 amendments to the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Let's go in turn, Amendment No. 1. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 4. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment No. Six. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Business Space. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 81 for and 19 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the rental and purchase of business space. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2017, submitted by the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, this item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 14 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106246	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 273. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for the Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed to resolve the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Boris Milosevic, and to propose Veljko Katazi as vice-president of the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106247	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and I am starving the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. Please, let's vote. I would like to say that 117 votes have been voted unanimously for, a decision has been made in the text, as proposed by the Committee on Selection and Designation and in Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106248	We move on to, respected colleagues and colleagues I would like to ask you for peace in the assembly, move to the next item of the agenda - Selection, appointment and resolution - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief State Auditor is the Proposer of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs on the basis of Articles 105, 161 and 273. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like the president of the Committee of Honored Fellow Ante Sanader to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106249	Thank you, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Chief State Auditor. Mr Ivan Klešić is proposed as chief state auditor and should take office on 11 December 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106250	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman of the Committee for the Election, Appoint and Administrative Affairs of Mr Anti Sanader. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106251	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports Mr Ivan Klesic as the main state auditor and in the next term. It is about a professional who graduated from the Faculty of Economics at the University of Zagreb. He also graduated from Postgraduate Specialist Studies and mastered. As regards the work experience of 1 January 97, he was employed at the State Audit Office in which he acted for 15 years as head of the branch office in Karlovac, and since 10 December 2010, he has been appointed chief state auditor. All the time he was perfected, participated in the process of adopting and adopting international professional standards, guidelines and resolutions. At the 9th Congress of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions held in The Hague in June 2014, the State Audit Office was elected under its chairmanship as the external auditor of the organisation, and at the 10th Congress re-election for the next three-year period again won. In addition, from October 2017 to October 2018, the unanimous decision was the head of the Supreme Audit Institutions and it chaired the Contact Committee of the Chiefs of the Supreme Audit Institutions and the European Court of Auditors. Otherwise, it is a Croatian defender who was also decorated with the Memorial of the Homeland War, the Medal of the Flash, the Medal of the Oluka and the like. The report on the work of the State Audit Office also discusses his work every year, and then we can see that in all the synergy, even the 6th, 7th and 8th meeting when the report on the work of the State Audit Office was here at the debate in the Assembly that the reports of these 8 reports were brought unanimous, 3 without a vote against, and all in two years 2011 and 2012 with one vote against. Since it is a highly skilled person with a lot of experience, we are confident that this decision will also be decided unanimously in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106252	I thank my esteemed colleague. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank the President of the Committee of Mr Anti Sanader for the explanation of the proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Bill on State Measurement and Real Estates. Have a good night. SESSION INTERNED AT 00:21 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106253	Finally, the selection of appointments and resolutions, the proposal for a decision to appoint the main state auditor. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint the Chief State Auditor. Please, let's vote. I find that 77 votes have been voted unanimously for the decision proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. That's what we came to the end of the vote. So now we're going to have a break by 14 hours, when we continue with the announced agenda points. Session interrupted at 1:00 p.m. The election, appointment and resolution, I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. President of the Committee. They'll explain... How many decisions does he have? I suggest we vote in the package if there are no specific remarks. [[Intruder: Three]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106255	Thank you. On the basis of Art. No. 105.1 subst. Article 1 161. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on the Source and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS proposes HS: Decision on the discharge and selection of vice-presidents, the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on European Affairs of the HS. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the European Affairs Committee, Mr Bojan Glavasevic, be resolved, and that Domagoj Hajdukovic be proposed as vice-president of the EU Committee on European Affairs. A member of the European Affairs Committee, HS Domagoj Hajdukovic, is proposed. For a member of the European Affairs Committee HS, Bojan Glavasevic and others are proposed. Zlatko Hasanbegovic. The resolution and selection of HS vice presidents for the economy are proposed. It is proposed that the vice-president of the HS Economic Committee Domagoj Hajdukovic be resolved and Dr Damir Tomic is proposed for the vice-president of the HS Committee on Economy. It is proposed that the vice-president of the HS Tourism Committee Bozica Makar, Vice-President, be excused. And for the vice-president of the HS Tourism Committee, Mario Hebag is proposed while Mario Hebag is also being resolved by a member of the Committee, Habek, Habek, while at the same time a member of the HS Tourism Committee Mario Habek is being resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106256	I'm opening a debate, I'm opening a debate. If no one hears from me, I will close the debate and put it to the vote of the Proposal for a decision of the Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 90 votes for and 1 abstentions have been made by the decisions proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106257	We will now move to the following point: - Final proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Assets, second reading, PZ No. 393. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, and amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Minister of State Property Mr. Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106258	Your Honor, Mr. President, you've been respected by five MPs. Here, I'm just going to point out briefly what the amendment to the Bill on the Central State Register is to the first reading because we've discussed a lot about this Law, so we're all familiar with it. Compared to the Bill's proposal in first reading, the most important changes are that in art. 2. it is further prescribed that it is necessary to provide property data for all legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia has ownership shares, regardless of the amount of ownership shares. And that was the proposal of Agent Stephen Curaj, so we adopted that proposal. The same proposal, the same representative, the second proposal, of the same representative, in Art. 4. Bonds are required to submit changes on assets managed within 60 days instead of first reading was provided for within 30 days. A transitional provision has also been added that bonds which have not delivered data to the Central Registry so far must be delivered within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act because many bonds have not delivered data at all, so now they have a new deadline of 6 months. The new Act stipulates that data supply bonds, budgetary, non-financial users of the state budget, units of local self-government, units of local self-government, budgetary, non-financial, users of the budget of units of local or regional self-government, companies, institutions and other legal entities whose founder is the local or regional self-government units, institutions which are one of the founders of the Republic of Croatia or the regional self-government. An institution which is one of the founders of an institution of which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia or a unit of local or regional self-government and any legal person with public authority. There have also been objections to why the Ministry of State Property does not run the Central Register. However, the Ministry of State Property manages only one small part of the total state property. And in order to have the imagery, it only controls the property that is not in function and which is illegal and which has been kidnapped and which has been misused, only by this property. All other assets, other institutions manage, from the CNB, from the Croatian Forests, the Ministry of Agriculture. So, a very small part. And it's logical that the Central Authority, which exists, is the Digital Society Office to be the central place where all bonds will supply property data to which they manage. Thus, the Ministry of State Property will also be bound by the property it manages, delivered to the Central State Register, but will also keep its special records, which it has, which it manages. Here, I hope the representatives of the club and the representatives will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106259	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106260	Thank you, Vice President. I thank the ministers for all the proposals they've accepted. What you mentioned was the first article. 2. to refer to all assets. I was in my first reading presentation and mentioned the article. 4. which determines that bonds are bonds, who are bonds of delivery of these data. So, we're in art now. 2. said what is considered property, and who should be delivered, there I was mentioning, when we talk about companies where the founders of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, should put there the same which, either owners or have shares of the Republic of Croatia and companies, in fact, daughters of companies. Because we have a specific situation where maybe the Republic of Croatia isn't the founder, but it owns it, if we're talking about Borov and you've mentioned it yourself or a situation like HEP where this company, but HEP has companies of daughters who have their own property again that are practically not bonds. Here, just that clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106261	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106262	Thank you very much. We're aware of the position of the daughter's company. But, for example, HEP. In his consolidated balance sheet, he has that information, and then as an obligor, he delivers that information as well. Yeah. [[And for the daughters?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106263	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first one on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge is to be spoken by the respected representative Miro Bulj, who is gone, who is losing his right to speak. Next, on behalf of the HDZ representative, the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. As we said in our first reading, we will support the Law on the Central Register of State Property because, as we have also discussed the State Property Management Act, we have accepted that it is the management of a state register, the Central State Register, outside the Ministry, a good solution, is a good project because, as the Minister has just said before, the Ministry of State Property has only one segment of the state property, so it is good that a special body such as the Central Register of State Property is also keeping records for this Ministry, but also for all other public bodies managing state property, and we also add property owned by units of regional or local self-government as well as companies, agencies owned by units of local or regional self-government. It is true that, according to the current register that was so far the Ministry, there were 227 debtors, and that of those 227 debtors from the delivery of state property data and owned only one was the Ministry of State Property. Therefore, this one argument is absolutely justified that the Government has decided on this approach to keeping records in the Central Register of State Assets It is good that the Government must adopt Article 7 as soon as possible, as defined, that the Government will adopt a regulation laying down the way in which the establishment and maintenance of the register itself will be done, in order to establish a uniform approach to the supply of data from all state bodies that the bodies of the local and regional self-government in the supply of such data, in order to make it simpler, more transparent, more efficient and efficient. What I'm going to say now, and what I'm saying every time is that we're going to keep a record of state property, a good thing to run, a good thing that it's in one place, but we're still aware that in a large part of that record it's poorly updated, that it's not consistent with the ground, given the poor condition of the cataster and the land book, which is how it burdens the way it works and manages the state property, and then clearly with its records in the central register of state property. Good, it is good that you accepted the proposal of your colleague Curaj, that all legal persons in whom the Republic of Croatia has ownership stakes are obliged, regardless of the amount of ownership shares to deliver changes on the property within 60 days, and not 30 as prescribed in the first reading. What the HDZ Representatives Club still wanted to say by reading this law is that it is good, and so it was in the first reading, to add a new chapter, and in that sense we will submit an amendment that will practically be a new Article 8 and, in which case, we will prescribe infringement provisions in such a way that, without delay and no later than 60 days from the date of the change in the central register, all data relating to the change in the individual forms of state property they manage, are available or used under the laws or regulations. For the infringement referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the delivery and input bonds of the central register referred to in Article 4 of this Act shall be fined between 100.000 and 100,000 kuna. So, in this way we have also prescribed a criminal offence provision if this law is not respected, because if there are no infringements or I do not believe that the law will then be fully implemented, or fully respected. So, we support this approach and therefore welcome the central register the changes that.../incomprehensible/... adopted on the basis of the remarks from the first reading and the Club of HDZ Representatives will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106265	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that HNS on behalf of which will be spoken by the esteemed representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106266	I thank the Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, very briefly I think I'm talking about the importance that the state knows what it has to do today, and today, after 28 years of minority independent state, that's what we're doing right now, that's what we might have to ask ourselves what we've been doing these last 20 years and a few years. But better ever than ever, I think it's absolutely important that the state knows what it has to do with it, that it doesn't happen that the state is going to rent certain space, any property, that it doesn't actually know that some of its components are using or not using or someone doesn't give God a third benefit that could be put in favour of the common good. But that's what this law really wants to list, no more so to say, of course, the money in the blurry and no more excuses we don't know, we don't have any more if it's big institutions, public companies, whatever, everybody has obligations and everyone has to know exactly what they have because that's the ultimate line of ownership of the state or all of us. What I would like to resolve exactly once again is that I do not repeat all these remarks I think they are both in place and therefore the Ministry has accepted them as well as Article 4 when we talk about delivery and data entry I can accept this argument from the minister at the replica that the mother companies will actually deliver all the information about the daughter's company because it was constructed by their assets, however, there would like to place the amendment of the proposing itself to refer to companies and other legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Croatia, but there we left out the part where the share is. So the holding shares are not listed in Article 4 which is what we said in Article 2 which is all the property, here does not apply at all to the obligation to deliver in the central register that the companies that the state has shares. Here, just maybe you and the Government amendment could correct it, if it's actually on the trail of what we suggested, so not only where the founder of the state is, but where the state has a certain share, so that they are bonds in Article 4, as they are related to Article 2, and I say once again I accept this statement by the Minister regarding the companies of the daughters of those same companies, institutions, etc. Here, I thank you very much and, of course, the HNS Club will accept this, and I think this is the first step that is certain to be enlightened, clears up the situation, and that we finally know what we have as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106267	Thank you very much, I hereby conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are obtained. We will see each other again on Tuesday 27 November when the first item of the agenda will be the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projection for 2020 and 2021. I wish you a pleasant rest until then. The session was interrupted at 3:03 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-21-0.u106268	Final proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property, Second Reading, P.Z. bf. 393. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. We held a statement on the amendments at the meeting held on 30 November 2018 by the applicant's representative accepted the amendments submitted and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 83 for, 18 abstentions and 1 against the passed Law on the Central Register of State Property. Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, I welcome you all, we continue our work, as always at the beginning of the week we have a debate in the clubs. Nine clubs reported, first in line is a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club. Here's my colleague, Sponza, please, colleagues and colleagues, to take your seats. Thank you.
