ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96006	I thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representatives and gentlemen of Parliament. The Agriculture Act lays down the objectives and measures of the agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia which are in line with the common EU agricultural policy and the strategic plan of the Ministry of Agriculture and also provides a framework for the implementation of agricultural policy measures. Following the drafting and adoption of new laws on agricultural land and the CAP law and a series of other laws in the last year and a half in the area of agriculture, the adoption of the Agricultural Law constitutes a continuation of a more comprehensive reform of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia. The current Agriculture Act, by unifying a number of national laws, has provided a framework for the establishment of a national agricultural policy and by ensuring the implementation of EU regulations, has created a framework for the functioning of the common agricultural policy. In particular, the implementation of implementing and delegated acts adopted by the EU regulation requires the adoption of a new normative solution which will further regulate both the objectives and measures of agricultural policy and give a clearer framework for their implementation. The new normative solution ensures sustainable development of agriculture, implements the principles of general food safety and the conservation of natural agricultural resources, improves and enhances the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and strengthens the social, social, economic and environmental role of agriculture. In order to ensure consistency in achieving the objectives and implementation of the measures laid down in the last reform of the common agricultural policy, the implementation of 12 UN Regulations which have so far been not an integral part of the applicable law shall be regulated. The responsibility for their implementation is prescribed to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and other bodies with which the Ministry of Agriculture may exchange information and conclude cooperation agreements while the paying agency for agriculture, fisheries and rural development is designated as the implementing body of the Agriculture Act, as well as the EU rules relating to measures of agricultural policy. Agriculture is legally highlighted as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and as such is an integral part of other development strategies. In order to achieve the objectives set, agricultural policy measures and sources of their financing shall be defined. The division of agricultural measures is basically kept in 3 basic categories from the current Agricultural Act and is consistent with the division of measures under the common agricultural policy to measures of the first pillar, direct payments and measures of the common organisation of the market, i.e. the second pillar, etc. rural development. In addition, other measures of national and EU agricultural policies are envisaged. The financing of agricultural policy measures is possible from EU funds intended for rural development and the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the budget of units of local and regional self-government, as well as donations and other sources in accordance with the applicable legal rules. With the aim of harmonising with the new special regulation in the area of agriculture, the CAP Act provides for a new form of farmers of the self-supply holding. In order to ensure health and consumer protection and to strengthen food trade procedures, a new law introduces international standards for food, guidelines and codes of good practice, etc. alimentarius code. The Ministry of Agriculture is appointed as the national authority of the central and coordination body for tasks related to the code of alimony and assumes the role of national contact point for the code of alimony by the Croatian Institute of Standards. Furthermore, in order to prevent and reduce the production of food waste in all phases of the food chain, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from the Republic of Croatia for a period of 4 years and the implementation and detailed development of the measures set out in this plan will be determined by the programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. In order to prevent food destruction and environmental protection and to help end-users, the food donation system is prescribed. Quality policy of agricultural and food products is increasingly important. The system and quality for agricultural and food products shall also include a protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication and traditional speciality guaranteed as well as mandatory terms, optional quality terms. The proposal for a law prescribes a simplification of the protection of the name of agricultural and food products and a clear procedure is laid down during the registration of the mark at EU level and the time limit for the adoption of protection as well as the time limit for the objection during the national procedure is reduced. A registration obligation shall be laid down for the registration of entities in organic production for legal and natural persons engaged in organic production, processing, distribution, import and export of organic products, and the conditions and procedure for authorising control bodies to carry out controls in organic production shall be governed. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for a total of 23 databases. The farmer's register is a central base for farmers in the Republic of Croatia and is run by the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. The register of farmers combines data on farmers and their agricultural resources collected through the register of family holdings and the unique register of domestic animals. The data from the farmer's register shall be used to report and control financial support and other measures of agricultural policy and to monitor the situation of agriculture and to plan agricultural policy. The obligation to register for farmers applying for direct support under the agricultural policy measures, farmers applying for market support measures and the rural development measures already mentioned shall be laid down. Where prescribed by sublaws, farmers who are required to be registered in registers, registers or records held by the Ministry or public institutions in agriculture and farmers who sell on the market their own agricultural products produced on the holding on the market. Also, more clearly, procedural rules of entry are laid down in the Register of Farmers. In order to ensure the implementation of the prescribed obligations, administrative inspection, official controls and controls of the Agriculture Payment Agency in its own rural development shall also be defined. The Ministry of Agriculture shall carry out administrative controls and controls on the ground, price collection systems and quantities of certain agricultural food products and certain agricultural instructions for price reporting purposes, the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development shall carry out administrative control and control on the ground for all measures and rules for which it is responsible. One of the provisions which continues to be maintained under the current Agricultural Act is a provision which exempts the user from the application of the amount of support of up to 50 000 kuna during one calendar year by means of a measure which remains in force under the current Agricultural Act. Finally, the proposed law improves and simplifies the current framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy for the 2014-2020 programming financial period, which will ensure more effective implementation of agricultural policy measures and allow for clearer and harmonised handling of competent authorities and ensure transparency in their behaviour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96007	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have 14 replicas. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96008	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, we have before us the Agriculture Act essentially all the bad laws you've brought on agriculture are in one package. All the laws and all the measures that have destroyed Croatian farmers, farmers who have to drink their peaches, orchards, farmers who cannot sell their grapes, but you send him the fines of 10 000 kunas which he did not report to the grape harvest before he did, it happened in the Dalmatian Zagora. You are law-abiding this law, in fact, to throw another law as a framework law, to sell land in 2020 so that they can be foreigners to the owners of agricultural land, that the owners of the CAP can be foreigners, in fact this law is a coffin of Croatian agriculture. This is a burial of Croatian agriculture and Minister Tolusic could at least come here and turn off the light for Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96009	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96010	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, the Law on Agriculture unites 8 laws which were applicable by 2015 in the area of definition of agricultural policy but does not define a land policy which is a national policy, it is defined by the Law on Agricultural Land, therefore the subject of this law is the measures and guidelines of agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96011	Second replica, dear colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96012	Dear Secretary, here we have already on several occasions that Minister Tolusic here does not want to come, he presented himself as a great savior of Croatian villages and, as counterpart Bulj said, we have no results on his part, no results. We have a situation in all parts of the country and huge problems with agricultural products. In my Neretva, so the crop this year is somewhere around 50,000 tons, it can't be placed, the price is low, it's a similar situation, it's a similar situation with grapes. The minister has promised to come to the valley of Neretva, he does not want to come as he does not want to come here to the Croatian Parliament and his colleague Bulj is absolutely right, regardless of what does not cover the issue of agricultural land here, here is the overall direction of your agricultural policies which are catastrophic and no results are available and we demand that Minister Tolusic, who is also now affected by this affair but we are not interested in this We're interested in problems. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Thank you.]] Croatian peasants. [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96013	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96014	Here, thank you again for your request from Mr. Grumoya. So this law, apart from defining agricultural policy and measures at the level of the Republic of Croatia, is also a link and link to the common agricultural policy of the EU and also regulates the measures of the common organisation of the market and in this part, we can point out that in the last year and a half, 10 producer organisations have been approved in various sectors of agricultural production that care for the placement of agricultural products on the market and thus unite and gather agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96015	The third replica, dear fellow Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96016	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, there can always be interpretations, however, they are the best evidence. When we look at only direct payments paid, according to the 2010 data, Croatia has paid about 3.5 billion kuna from its state budget at a time when operational programmes were... at that time something that today should be measures of rural development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2014, we get from the European budget, this is from last year 2.3 billion we get to them, but where are these funds? These funds are not channelled to support agriculture, in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture they are not seen and in the end, the result is that we have 3.4 billion in direct payments in 2017, so in 2010, we had 3.5 billion. We have not yet achieved what the Croatian state was willing to give at that time, even though we have significant funds from the European Commission budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96017	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96018	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes to consult and arrange for all clubs to consider whether they should have been the Minister of Agriculture on the most important law, the roof Agriculture Act. We don't have a problem with the minister being covered by this SMS affair, but there are six drivers. So let one of you bring him here on this one, let him come to us here. Have him bring him in and tell us what's wrong with Slavonia, what about the project Slavonia, which is just a PR. What about a cabinet meeting that also concerned agriculture in Split. What measures have they taken? Except he can't come and say he's a undertaker of Croatian agriculture. Well fellow MPs, I'm talking about the roof farm law. From Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, like, Dalmatian Zagora, Neretva, my cetinal place. Only weeds that grow. Your men have moved away, your agriculture has been destroyed. We are talking here from the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia which is one of the demographic causes and demographic emigrations. Because he did not encourage a Croatian farmer, a Croatian cattleman, a Croatian warlord. This should be discussed as to what measures the Minister of Agriculture gives. His actions so far have been only deception and lies, essentially PR. Secretary, call the minister because it's an important law. Croatian farmers, the owners of the OPG expect the minister to say a few sentences about this law of yours, which is a simple pamphlet. The law that prescribed 8 bad laws, 8 laws that destroyed the Croatian village. Once again, I ask you colleagues from HDZ, call Minister Tolusic to tell us in front of us and the Croatian farmer and the public what measures have been taken for farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96019	Thank you. My friend Bulj, thank you. I approve a 10 minute break, or 12. We'll continue at exactly 10.00 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] Let's move on, now it's a mess, dear colleague of Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96021	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I have a question for you, do you have any information on how much this year or last year has been enrolled in a high school agricultural and agricultural colleges, because the data is that the number of students enrolled in these occupations is drastically reduced, which means that our children have practically given up on agriculture, they don't see bread in it. In about 4-5 years, we will have a deficit of professional professions. Some occupations in agricultural schools such as orchard, vineyard, gardeners have gone out. And how we plan to develop a strategy of agriculture, if we have such a trend of reducing enrolment in high schools and colleges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96022	The minister will eventually, when he gets back, because he hasn't spoken, so he can't even respond to the replicas. Let's move on, dear colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I see that in this law you specifically meant to protect farmers from institutions, namely, we often have complaints about agency decisions. So far, it has been resolved by the agency in the first degree, the law stipulates that such complaints in the second pillar are being resolved by the ministry, which is good. However, I have a question for you, in your law, that we will care for the education of farmers, and on the other hand, they are enrolling in agricultural colleges with less and less agronomic and agricultural engineer quotas. In fact, this gentleman is listed only 305, so I ask you, how do you see this situation and how do you intend to solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96024	Let's move on, dear colleague Liposhchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96025	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, we have a new proposal for the Agricultural Act, but I would nevertheless take advantage of the opportunity and refer to the Agency's tender for payments, for implementation, for operations, for the establishment of producer groups and organisations, which are envisaged, i.e. there are more than 26 million kunas, if I am not mistaken, or 500 thousand euros that are scheduled for a five-year period per producer organisation. Personally, I believe that the association of farmers is necessary for normal development, and we can say so in particular in those areas, for example my Carlovac County and the town of Ogulin, which also have the area of agricultural areas, so that they actually prevent specific farming. And I'm curious as to how the situation so far has been, or how many of these organizations are currently responding to this and what effect do you think this measure is going to take? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96026	Dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96027	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, in this law, there are among other things a series of provisions, which speak of the cause of inspection. Each and every one of us has some topics that he's very happy to talk about in the House. One of my subjects, which I am very happy to talk about, is the inspection, the more the public debate these days, the more the proposal was made, that there was a great inspection at the state level. So far, that is, in this autumn session, I am when any law was asked, Minister, whether your inspections remain in your jurisdiction, in your ministry or go to a major inspectorate. So far, I've never received an answer from a single minister, not my inspections, they go to a major inspectorate, and they don't stay. So I'm curious about what's going on with the agricultural inspection, that either she'll stay in your ministry or maybe she's one of those rare ones, which we're working for a great inspectorate, because if that's not the case, then I don't even know what the meaning of that great inspectorate is, except that we have new state officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96028	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96029	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I would like to be here through this debate, pointed out, many times that the Dalmatian Zagora is desolate, that Slavonia is desolate, and I will point out here a possible problem, why we have a very demographic devastation of many regions of Croatia, and that is because we have very small agricultural economies. In comparison, for example. The Czech Republic and Slovakia, which have over 150 heifers of the agricultural holding, Croatia is only somewhere above 4 hectares. And I don't know what the problem is, if in neighbouring Hungary, which is naturally geographically almost identical, the agricultural economy is much bigger than it is in Croatia, which is the problem with Croatia. In other words, the sooner we put into office, the more land we give to farmers because otherwise this will be just cosmetics, the more agricultural law on agriculture we will have nothing, and exodus, will continue from our Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96030	Dear colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96031	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The introduction is that agriculture is a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia, if it is why we do not have a strategy for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and when this strategy or still remains a strategy in Croatia, when it comes to agriculture and agricultural products, we import as much as possible and destroy domestic production. In addition, it speaks of the balance of imports and exports of agricultural and food products for the first six months, where over a billion and 400m euros are respected agricultural food products in Croatia. Over 500m euros is a deficit, and the biggest problem is in livestock, because 287m euros are deficits. How will you protect domestic pigs if 40 thousand tonnes of pig meat are imported or what you plan to do to protect domestic apple producers that are not protected this year, and we see that Poland protects its producers or remains our strategy to import and forget domestic production, is this a strategy of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96032	Thank you. My friend, Predec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96033	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates, I'm going to speak a little more on behalf of the Agriculture Club, and now that we have a little time, just one little cartoon. I've only been to one farmer for a while, and then this farmer's been asked by the press, he says, you've got problems, this whole thing together, how did you do it? He said we only made it because of ourselves. It didn't help the state or anything, and because we're worth it, we have a strategy, we have a vision, and that's why we've succeeded. And the only thing I'd ask for is the local community and the state, don't just interfere with us because it's going to be the biggest help. Why am I saying that? Here, the assistant minister spoke about financing agricultural policy and read not long ago in our Evening List urged farmers and entrepreneurs to report for the Esif loans, no problem and then a farmer and entrepreneur appeared to me again and said: Gentlemen, I submitted a request for financing agriculture three, four months ago, I didn't even get an answer. Are we going to help our farmers and farmers not even get an answer in three or four months, let alone a credit solution? A specific question, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96034	Thank you. We're going to 11 lines, dear colleague Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96035	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. This law is definitely in line with EU regulations and thus allows a total of 7 billion kuna at the annual level to be allocated to agriculture through rural development, direct payments and market organisation measures, without this law there will be no such payments. My question is precisely about harmonising this law with the reform law, the OPG law. What is the position of self-supervised agricultural economies in the context of the future agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia, but what is the significance and position of the OPGs themselves, regardless of what they are governed by special law, the OPG Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96036	Dear colleague Culey, here you go. He's not a colleague. He's losing his right. Dear fellow Music, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96037	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, looking at our agriculture these 28 years and destroyed Slavonia, I would say 25 years where not much about agriculture has been taken care of, speaking today about agriculture and investment in Slavonia, I must sincerely say, I must even commend, because some day almost 600 million have been signed in the White monastery for Slavonia's development. Of course, in this short time, we can't fix it quickly, but we're intensifying that this development and I see that this government wants it. We're talking about organic production, strategy, farms, our orchards, here's where we have no place to coordinate apples, and we'll talk about it later in an individual debate. I think it's going in a better direction, but of course it can't change overnight in two years something that hasn't been taken into account for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96038	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96039	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Since it is stated in the opening statement that the proposal continues to regulate the quality system, i.e. registration and protection of the name of agricultural and food products with the designation of origin and geographical indication, I have one specific proposal. So we currently have 19 registered, 2 published and 7 applied products that require the designation of originality of Croatia. I would like to have that country involved in some way to ensure that we have as much visibility as possible of these products as possible, so that through one of the most complex examples of making one shelf in each market, if you want to be subsidized, in which these same products will be represented. I think that would give us a promotion, especially when we talk about tourist centres in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96040	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed fellow Uncle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96041	Thank you, President of the Parliament. So I think the law is well written, it puts agriculture where it belongs, which is the strategic branch of the economy, it's working out all the areas, but in the explanation itself, the Secretary of State said that this law also provides for a system of food donation, which is one social note, so here's a word more about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96042	Thank you. Now let's see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. Then we'll have a discussion. The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96043	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today by the name of a very important law before us, the Law on Agriculture, a fundamental law which, as it is said, sets guidelines for Croatian agriculture by 2012, but since 2014, it has been a little late, but that it is ambitious, I would say that it has managed to change something in these 2 years as far as it is before us. What is certain, the law has made a comprehensive statement of European directives in this way implemented and certain laws that were passed in previous times, but what it does not show, after already a series of laws have been implemented, which is how it will deal with the problems that we have. Now, the minister, since he wasn't in the very replica I had for the secretary of state, would compare only one piece of information, which is yes 2010. Croatia paid 3 and a half billion direct payments in those difficulties. Today, when the European Commission from the EU budget significantly subsidises us in this work and gives us 2.3 billion just for direct payments, we have 3.4 billion in total. And then I ask the Minister's question where did that difference go? And 2 billion, if we round them up to one to say some part that's understandable, where did they go? Did they go to Croatian agriculture, did they go to Croatian farmers? Is it then, not only were the direct payments, but there were also operational programmes, also financed from the RS budget. It only shows that the time for Croatian agriculture was much better for Croatian farmers. That government had more understanding than we can say now. So only a billion, slightly stronger than a billion kuna, the Croatian government is now giving for agriculture and we could have another 2 billion on that. We are talking about direct, direct support, the income of agricultural producers that they can achieve their objectives to reach a level of competitiveness, to be competitive on the market itself. By reviewing the law itself, anyone will find out who would debate something here, it's not at all questionable. Everyone will find a mouse who can say something about it. They'll find a friend, a colleague, a neighbor, someone from a family who's involved in agricultural production that this applies to. But what we need to say is whether we understand whether the direction is done, whether this law, when its impact assessment is made, guarantees that we will have a certain effect by the end of 2020. I'll just say the effort that's here, for example. made for the delivery of administrative documents where the electronic route is listed, unfortunately the ministers are not only up to you, it is not enough just to say we will deliver an electronic mail, there will be a solution for it, but you must make sure that the Croatian nation is also equipped with information and information and that numerous ageing economies can, know and know how to manage this. What's gonna happen to us? Deliver the solution, since it is no longer a two-stage system by subject, they can appeal to the commission, they have deadlines when someone will open. Who, here's one question not for you, is a question for those who enter requests for direct payments in the Agronet system, how often they succeed, they have time to open Agronet. So we know that the agricultural advisory service is helping a number of farmers to apply. And with this solution, it's assumed that everyone needs to know. Well, we haven't even solved IT in elementary schools yet. Well, neither our youngsters are numerous, nor have material opportunities, nor have knowledge to deal with it. Whoever is here from present colleagues, and alone, I have a family agricultural economy, went to meet the requirement for direct payments must have studied well, dealt with a subject that was not simplified. She needs to be known, she should be dealt with, and especially if we take records of the use of protective products, pesticides and other materials to be worked. If you just look at the composition of their composition where an active substance should be calculated to show how much it is per unit of surface, per production unit. I'm just saying it means we're passing directives, orders from the European Commission, and we're not worried about whether people understand, know, whether they're dealing with the problems they're having. What is mentioned in this law here is the first time we have encountered the concept of a self-supply agricultural economy where it does not appear to be a family agricultural economy. Where does it say that the agricultural holding is less than 3, the size of 3,000 So? Do we have a new definition, did we give up all those who are less than 32 thousand SO that they are no longer a family agricultural economy, that they will not be referred to by what was adopted positively. We're introducing a new term. Are we aware of the effect that will continue? Minister, do the agricultural holdings know that they come into the category of the write-offs? This is the beginning of exactly that series. And we intend, Minister of the Croatian Government, to have numerous agricultural holdings written off. Of course, we always call for counselling, counselling that should be carried out through the body of organisations with agricultural producers to interpret what certain laws are giving them, what are the advantages, what are the shortcomings. As I was critical of the delivery of the solution, so I'll just say counseling has become e-consultation, perhaps it is modern, perhaps it is something that should be our future, I wonder how many agricultural producers have read the proposal of this law, as far as it knows that a advisory service is being introduced that can be private. What will be selected private bodies to do the advisory work? Does this mean that it is recognised that the advisory service, the official advisory service that exists now cannot deal with the challenges of Croatian agriculture anymore? Does this mean that it is true that advisers are transformed into administrators, that at least they are dealing with what is their biggest task, which is to help Croatian farmers in their production, and it seems to me that the system that is now created has become such that they are more involved in helping to resolve their documents, the deadlines, for everything is signed. The ministry, there's Minister Tolusic himself, all will be punished for missing the deadline. The only thing we don't know is what punishment is for the ministry if it doesn't appear within the prescribed time limit. Whether the minister will be, punish himself. So we make sure when we get rid of something that we have to treat ourselves like that because if we don't talk about it right now, who's going to protect Croatian farmers? Whether it will be a agricultural chamber for which every farmer, the manufacturer will have to allocate funds, each OPG and then want and demand to fight for them, to interpret laws, to be a body that will truly represent Croatian farmers. But it needs to be created through democratic processes, it needs to be seen that what everyone separates as little as it is has a feedback effect. To not only be another chamber that will be close to the Minister, to the Government, to any current government, but someone who will have power, power here, we can compare ourselves to General Sacic who today said I will not be in the Generals' Assembly for this reason we believe they have turned their backs on the defenders. We can connect it this way that this is if we don't have such an organization then they've turned their backs on the agricultural producers. As every defender should come to Vukovar to request that all those responsible for the victim be processed and we also need to know who will be responsible for all the negativeities of Croatian agriculture. It may seem that it is not compatible with each other, but it is very compatible because coming from the east of Croatia, everything that is the weight of life, the weight of production, the missing industrial production, the weight of the fighting agriculture, which has no market, the weight of the victim who has failed to find the culprit, where the institutions have failed and is always the institution of the Croatian state. And maybe it's a good thing that the Vukovar institutions don't have their own record, their terms because then we'd be able to read who's guilty. On this one, it seems to me that the people are the ones who, when they get up, then something gets dirty. I hope this protest won't be the only one. That very quickly and protests all those threatened will be able to speak clearly about real problems. I will thank the Minister for recognising when we asked for a break that we should talk about today's bill because it is very important, it is very important and sincere, thinking here during the break which and how, it was a question of whether we really want to speak on behalf of the club and if we do not know that what we are going to say will come to the Minister of Agriculture, Vice-President of the Croatian Government and that there will be an understanding of what will be said during this debate. And it's a good thing he came. Someone will say that he may not have arrived in time for the driver's sake, but let's not banish today because this law will certainly be much more responsible, we will be much more responsible to him if we really concentrate on the content, if we discuss everything, the summary and those laws that were passed in the previous time and the directive that oblige us to interpret it because I believe that there are a number of colleagues and colleagues here who do not understand certain parts, because for the first time, the minister should be given the word and I should be the position to report and explain his position and actively in this debate to adopt a law that should cover the government's policy, not only politics but also what the Croatian agricultural producer can expect as support, because if we say that the intensity of the support now does not guarantee the progress of Croatian agriculture, then it is the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture that with his fellow finance minister, with the president of the Croatian government, talks on strengthening of the budget for agriculture. And the recent study I followed, she made it clear that unfortunately Croatia missed the train of industrial production, missed the wave of investment, that we should rely on tourism and agriculture, and for that reason Minister, I believe that your budget should clearly reflect the possibility that it opens up for us because food production will certainly be needed not only in the distant future but also very soon because by ensuring self-sufficiency, we protect national strategic interests as well as in every branch of agriculture. Thank you Minister for finding the time to listen to our presentations as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96044	Thank you. The minister called, he's entitled to a five-minute speech, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96045	Thank you, first of all, for saying hello to the President of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, to all MPs and MPs. Today was a pretty important point in the government, which is to determine the cost of renting state agricultural land, so I apologize in advance for being there and I haven't been able to listen to these things that you're proposing but we're going to make it right in the final word, so it's not a problem. Well, Mr. Panenic, I can agree with you in some things absolutely, but I would have to replicate some things because of course I consider a standard, unexhausted set of incorrect data and that is what I find absolutely wrong, that we should not bother the Croatian public in this way, but good. In 2010, direct payments were $ 3.4 million including total capital investments of all 4 operational programmes, then allowed support for apples, Mandarins, milk that were then allowed, since 2013 it is absolutely not allowed and that is something we do not have today. Today, in 2014, we have two billion 975 million direct direct payments, 2015. 3 billion 324, 2016 3 billion 336, 2017 3 billion 408 million kuna plus support from the rural development programme. At the annual level, it is tendered for around 500m euros. Thus, an additional 3 billion and 700 million kuna, i.e. the possibility of withdrawing at least for 2017 and 2018 at the level of over 7 billion kuna per year. Today you can come with me, I would be pleased, to the Ministry of Agriculture to sign a contract for measure 4.1.1, and 4.1.2., 270 of our farmers from Slavonia, from all parts of the Republic of Croatia who have received decisions, get the possibility of using European funds, so let's see what they say about all of this. Whether they receive only support or also money from the rural development programme. As far as simplifying the system is concerned, I couldn't agree more with you. And that's a debate at EU level. The system as such is complicated and new guidelines for the common agricultural policy are going in this direction to simplify the system. And certainly our farmer needs to do more production, and less paperwork and that's what we're trying to solve at European level. Unfortunately, or fortunately, it is the same practice in all Member States and all Member States are aware of these problems and that is something we are trying to correct. All our employees at both the paying agency and the Ministry... The service is available to farmers, we help them, we correct all their mistakes if they are, we do everything we can to make things right, to make them happy and happier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, there's too much paper, that's where I absolutely agree with you. I'm just saying, that's something we need to apply, but together with all the Member States, we are struggling to correct these problems. Although, for the first time since last year, our farmers get home a document that tells them at least how much they've been encouraged by all these measures or things they're getting. There is a part of your representatives who have OPGs or have a variety of agricultural production within their family so they know how complicated it is and how much that paper really means to our farmers. What I also think, as far as the Croatian agricultural chamber is concerned, I believe that the state should have, or farmers, one institution that will represent them, not 1300 associations, although everyone is absolutely welcome. The intensity of the agricultural chamber was just a step away from politics. Today, the Croatian agricultural chamber is paid by the Ministry of Agriculture. I absolutely do not want any influence on it, it wants the influence on the Agricultural Chamber to have Croatian farmers. And I think that's the only way to make that body independent. If you think otherwise, it must be under the grasp of politics, it's absolutely your problem. If someone's fighting for the O.P.G., then it's this government, the Ministry and I personally at the head of this ministry. All the laws we've passed, and you've read them here, and the OPG Act that didn't exist, and the Agricultural Land Act, which primarily puts livestock and agricultural holdings, other laws, everything that was done, was done primarily to help the OPGs, in livestock or any other segment. Everyone has the right to their position, but I think the final court will bring Croatian farmers to see if anything is right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96046	We have four replicas. The first is the first in line, first in line is a respected colleague, Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96047	Dear Minister, I am very pleased to see you here at the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to warn you that your Ministry has added more through a series of laws... Croatian farmers, through the OPG Act, new administrative means, as regards business itself, barriers, and the Agriculture Act. 30. century 3. enables anyone who has 1,000 hectares to report to the new Agricultural Law and to get as much as is prescribed in that municipality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means because it applies from this law. What I mean is, I come from Slavonia and you come from Slavonia. You can tell me specifically because during your term of office there was this famous table of projects from Slavonia where Minister Jakovina was still calling, so you just took over his projects. Who is Slavonian farmers have the advantage of applying to measures 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 4.1, and 4.2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96048	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96049	Thank you to the distinguished representative, Mrs. Sonja Cikotic. Well, I think you're dealing with agriculture and environmental and every other and your family. You know how difficult this is, but how successful, lucrative and processed and everything else that is done in that segment can be. I'm glad you're still from Slavonia, that you're not from Split or any other city and that you're fighting with us for this story. The rural development programme from the complete, complete EU funds that we are withdrawing with a new development index that can certainly still be better, has made it possible for much greater withdrawal of money and farmers and other economic operators from the Slavonia area. If you followed past advice for Slavonia a few days ago, you saw the signing of a contract for 4 projects financed directly by the Ministry of Agriculture from its budget, 100 million kuna, the siren in Virovitica, the agrocenter in Vukovar relationship in Cerna and I think that the wooden centre is in there somewhere also in Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96050	Comrade Bull, you're second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96051	Thank you very much. Minister, you've come to this law... You have not attended and I believe this is a very important law and that farmers expect clear answers from you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact is that since we brought in, he says 8 laws of those that you have now put in one, basically we have 76 kg of fruit and vegetables imported by the head of the population or more than 50%, while at the same time fruitmakers are drinking peaches, while at the same time we import porks a billion kunas, bakery products, fields are empty. We have not done anything with these laws, except to impose on the Law on the OPG, where we are a new imposition, for the agricultural chamber, where they will have to pay everyone, the chamber, which they must essentially fight, which they would have to fight for. Because if the chamber was fighting, we'd have a farmer today, and we wouldn't have an ear factory that doesn't fight for peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96052	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96053	I thank Mr. Bull for the replica. I agree with you, Mr. Bulj, dear Miro, and if someone is fighting imports and if someone is advertising and trying to counter Croatian products, then it is me and the Ministry of Agriculture. I hope you're with me. Like the situation, if we have today, it wasn't yesterday, it was created in the last 20 years during all governments, and the HDZs and the SDPs and everyone else today plus we only have what we have. The cattle business didn't go down a year ago. We've been saving him today, and unfortunately the results will be seen in 2, 3 or more years, but we have to save him today. And you can't see the result of the law today, but I hope you'll be present, as a parliamentary representative or some other politician, to see progress in both January and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96054	Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96055	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, it's a good thing you came here, we haven't seen you here in the Croatian Parliament in a long time, and I think this law deserves, since the roof law, to be there. We asked some questions to the secretary of state, you weren't here, you couldn't hear. Ugl. We talked about the situation of agricultural product placement. We have a situation in Neretva 50,000 tons of mandarin. I heard you promised to come down, here, you're still gone, people are expecting you, they want to hear what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing about it, and we have the county commission, the mayor, who just meets, does nothing, similar to the mayors, down municipalities and cities and Neretva. And I'm also interested in what Sonja asked, you haven't answered her, you've avoided answering the question, what advantage farmers from Slavonia have to take, to these measures 6.1, 6.2, 6.4, 4.1, and 4.2. What is the advantage of a farmer from Slavonia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96056	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96057	Thank Mr. Grumoja for asking questions, come today in half 1 at the Ministry of Agriculture, so you will see what is the advantage of farmers from Slavonia and what are the differences between them why there are many more there than others. When we talk about Mandarin, I couldn't agree more, we have problems there. So the secretary of state is out there at the weekly level in the Neretva Valley, we need to team up, we need to build a freezer there. One single product of that Mandarin, and why are we reading it green? Why do our producers give in and give in, and they give in to that story, and they could keep the whole story on their own. That's what you have to ask them, we've held meetings with the trade chains, with the buyers, I can't threaten someone to buy it, and I can't set the price. But I can also fight for the peasants in Neretva and for the peasants in Slavonia and we do that both in Vrgorec and in any other region and I expect it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96058	Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96059	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I come from Vrgorec, the strongest winehouse, I think in Croatia, over 13 million chocolate vines, the current situation is catastrophic. Many farmers are left with numerous vines and cannot place. Today we are discussing a new Law on Agriculture and a series of other laws that have been united in the form of this law. The point and the fact is, every law says it will bring something new, but the fact is that more and more fields are unprocessed, more and more products can't be sold and I don't know what customs controls are doing. We have a law on the prevention of an unfair trade pig. And until customs controls defend the interest of our farmers, until they prevent imports, non-quality products, at low prices, there is no future for farmers, both in Vrgorec and in Slavonia. In particular, in the mountainous mountainous area, additional points have been abolished in this new tender for measure 3.6. How to encourage the development of agriculture in the mountainous mountainous area? No farmer can be as competitive as a Slavonic farmer because of the fragmentation of parcels and a series of other factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96060	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96061	Thank you, Mr. Pranic, for asking questions. First of all, I think you're doing a great job with yourself in the town of Vrgorec, trying to help your farmers, I think it's a good way to get locals involved in solving all these problems. If you know how to prohibit import, you can say it, I'll apply it. And then tell the Croatian public and farmers in Vrgorec how you will prohibit the import of agricultural products or the export of agricultural products from Croatia. So there's no such regulation and we can't apply it. I'd be very happy to do it and I'd be very happy to, but it's not possible. But I'm back again, you can help and help and thank you for that. We can help, but farmers must join together, withdraw money from funds, and those areas, which are more developed, or less developed, also have additional money from direct payments and can be helped in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96062	Thank you. We've come to an end with replicas, now we're going to the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96063	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is good to discuss the Law on Agriculture and that this is one in a series of discussions on legal proposals from this sector. And what I would like to point out, what at the beginning of this debate is that I am glad that agriculture, came to Mark's Square, that agriculture is in the government building, that agriculture minister is also vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, it's not just a person's status, it's the branch status it represents. And I don't know if it was in some times before, but here I think it's the same indicator that agriculture could really come to the position of the strategic branch of the economy as it is in this law in one article, in one paragraph and mention it. What I'm interested in here is the question of when will the RH agricultural production strategy be made? We know that there's a lot of talk about it being said that it's in the works, that one two years already in some kind of analysis, here's my question, so when there's a long-term strategy for the development of agricultural production, because without such a long-term strategy, we can actually only get what happened to us all the years before, every 4 years or every 2 years, but as the change of the minister changed, we've come to a situation where, at one time, a huge amount of kuna from the state budget has been paid by agriculture, and at the same time, the killing of agricultural production happened, with huge money aimed at the village, we've succeeded in making wrong decisions, by misdirecting money to destroy agricultural producers. So one strategic document, one clear definition, a long-term determination, is certain that something without which we will not be able to plan in the long term, develop agricultural production. To pass a whole series of agricultural laws, but not only those proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, but also by the laws proposed by the tax bases, so we cannot mention here the impact and attitude to food production by changing tax laws where VAT rates on food are reduced. Ministers also mentioned earlier that you are extremely committed to promoting Croatian agricultural products, and that is true, I congratulate you on that because, realistically, all these years since the 1990s, we have talked very shyly here about our production and found hundreds of reasons not to promote our own, not to promote our domestics, and someone has always defended us. Here's what's going on. There's no one to defend. We have a problem with a few agricultural producers, but there's always a way out, you should never throw all that stuff aside, throw a spear at a thorn. Here's the other day I was in Djurjevac for fruit days. I saw in the stands a significant number of young people, young producers, so young people in one part still opt for agricultural production and because of them, they actually need to pass as high-quality laws as possible and to enable them to, to encourage them to further produce. What I would like to emphasize here is, in fact, that story that we are constantly talking about and we are repeating it all over again, I will repeat it again, many will repeat it today, and it is a model of agricultural production, food production and its placement towards Croatian tourism. So that's what we're talking about and we've never done it, amazingly. And today, by this law, we will not succeed again, we will not succeed. Here it encourages the establishment of producer organisations and that's good, but it's a merger, self-initiative association of agricultural producers, it's the best association that can be, but it's not systematically elaborated. And we simply have to foresee the law one system, one pyramid, one network that will gather in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, organize producers, speak especially about family farms because large producers, they, of course, find themselves on the market, thank God we have them as much as possible, but these little ones are being, they are life, they are keeping life where they live, they are present. And the producer organization and this one that was founded have already been set up to say positive effects and shifts, but we're not going to solve it systematically. So there's an idea about so-called. agro-centres, agro-incubators, let's call it what we want and there is simply the imminent inclusion of counties, counties that as territorial units generally have the most space for their activities in rural areas, cities they do not need, cities have their own policies, their budgets, their financial strength, human resources and they do this job. Small municipalities and these rural areas don't. And I see nothing stronger, nothing better for the counties than the establishment of such centres by certain agricultural, large cultures, which someone particularly prefers, regionally by the Republic, will gather small producers, OPGs, organize and produce, but primarily organise the ransom, after which all of this can be networked into a common system throughout the Republic and place primarily towards Croatian tourism but in that case with such one way of association, networking, of course, that it can become competitive in the external markets. I think this law should provide for some framework for such an organisation and such a way of setting up. Says the producer organization that, absolutely, a good thing but they have their own inter-, their borders beyond which they can't go on and in principle won't happen that real effect that would be. They could, of course, be included in the Agrocentar system as producer organisations. I always cite an example here, the closest here is the example of Zagreb County and the distribution centre for fruit and vegetables that was founded, which received money from the EU, which brings together producers, which is spreading and organising as much as possible. So that's one example, we have the same in Slavonia, in Vukovar-Srijem County, so these things. But it has to be a system that's going to be kind of fixed and then it's going to be in the entire Republic of Croatia. Then we would circle that whole, and then we could say that we'd run something that would have power. I've been told by some to talk about the establishment of some of the institutions where people are going to love each other, where there's going to be some new jobs, it can be very simple to make these people pay for themselves. And I don't think there's anything we can do without it, that without it we'll never move any clearer and stronger from a place where we've been taping for a long, long time. And ultimately allow the county to get one of its true meanings of existence. I'll look back on article 58 that talks about labs. The Ministry gives the authority to work on the equipment labs. Okay. I don't understand what's going on here with independent state labs. They are not mentioned anywhere in this section, and I think they should be the same covered by this law, defined by this law because they are a significant part of the organisation of Croatian agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, they are invested in a lot of money, there are people of human beings therefore composed and educated, trained. And my proposal to the Minister is to install in this article some framework of the definition of state independent laboratories that already exist, that act and that do very well. Chapter VIII. talks about education and training. And here we see some problems again. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot influence the system of education for agricultural production unless it has an impact and an opinion on giving the status of the centre of competence for agricultural education. Here I come from the Križevci, the oldest agricultural school not only in Croatia, not only in the former state, much wider. The Križevci High School of Economics, the Križevci High School of Economics, in the system of the centres of competence, did not get the status of the centre of competence. I'm seriously concerned that it will destroy that oldest agricultural school in the long run. One in my opinion is a very unreasonable and reckless decision. But what's there is. She's made. So if we want this education system to develop in this agricultural sector, the Ministry of Agriculture must have its own influence and give some of its final court. 'Cause otherwise, every one of us goes our own way. Someone in the woods, someone in the road. This section is related to counselling and advisory services. The attitude I've been taking for a long time is that we in the advisory service have well-trained and educated people but that we've never agreed to have that system fully functional and operational and that it has the right results behind it. A consultant in the advisory service must work in a way that has specific agricultural producers to monitor them through the year as they work to monitor their performance and end up being rewarded by wages if they have positive results. Then they would also stimulate these people, and that would be better for both the manufacturer and whoever advises, who really wants to do it. We, as a club of the Croatian Democratic Party, HSLS and HDSSB, will support this bill. And the ministers and your associates ask you to take into account these remarks and suggestions that we have made so that until the second reading you try to set up and define some other things, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96064	Now we're going to discuss IDS, PGS and RI, a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96065	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By reading the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, I can generally say that it is a matter of technical harmonisation of the law and that these amendments of the law will bring its implementation into line with 12 new EU regulations and thus ensure continued consistency in the implementation of measures under the latest reform of the EU's common agricultural policy. So, this time, we have the law for agreeing with the EU, which is the job ahead of us and which we must do but to fulfill only bureaucratic forms should neither be nor should be our sole goal. I believe that our aim should be to make life easier for farmers, to make the regulation more stimulating, and ultimately to make our farmers more competitive with the much higher placement of their products both domestic and global. One thing is, respected colleagues and colleagues, the issue of impressions and another is the question of the results achieved and the real effects of the regulations and measures themselves. Any amendments to the law, even if in this case it was only a conformity with EU directives or amendments to national rules, should be based primarily on an analysis of the existing situation but also indicators of their application both in the short term and in the long term, but also on potential risks, and if they arise, that we have mechanisms to prevent and implement protection and enforcement. Therefore, the issue of agriculture in Croatia is far more complex than what is being dealt with by this law. That's why I'm continuing my exposure with a few questions. First, is agriculture really a strategic economic branch in Croatia? If so, should we not all ask ourselves today, regardless of what we are discussing, why, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have huge areas of unprocessed state agricultural land and, on the other hand, huge imports and we have to make it clear, very bad food products. Secondly, why do the most young people move from once-rich areas to the Republic of Croatia today? And thirdly, did we create for these young people a prerequisite that even through agricultural production they can achieve their life goals and, most importantly, ensure their own existence? Dear colleagues and colleagues, what bigger problems than demographic, economic and social problems can make us think that we should connect Slavonia and Lika and Gorski Kotar through agricultural production, especially through tourism with Dalmatia, Istria and Primorje? It is enough to look at the scales of good practice in our environment where domestic producers are primarily protected, thereby protecting and contributing to the national economy. I believe that seeking a solution in the first place should be made aware of the importance of selling most of what is produced in Croatia and found on a plate of foreign and domestic guests. I will conclude that solutions always exist but the question is only one: Do we have the strength and responsibility and competence to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96066	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the following is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96067	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So, the 2015 Agriculture Act apparently had a problem with implementation due to non-compliance with the EU acquis. It is precisely this new draft law that regulates the implementation of 12 new EU regulations and ensures the continuation of the implementation of the measures set out in the last reform of so-called ‘EU’. common agricultural policies. In addition to the provisions of the European regulations, this includes the adoption of national strategic and programming documents with national objectives, priorities, measures and mechanisms of action. The new law seeks to improve the legal framework, which in the broadest sense regulates the area of agriculture and agricultural policy. The framework for implementing agricultural policy measures on the provision of state aid in the area of agriculture and rural development, which must be in line with EU rules, is certainly important for continuing to provide support in agriculture. I'm going to say a little bit about these aids, although the share of agricultural policy in the EU budget has been decreasing since the 1980s, still about 31% of the EU's total budget goes to direct payments in agriculture and market measures. 11% will leave for rural development and 16% more funding from the regional fund is intended for rural development goals. Such concentration of funds in rural areas has its own justification. In the vast majority of EU Member States, rural regions are economically lagging behind urban areas, are characterized by a large share of the older population and cover a larger amount of Union territory with significant natural resources. In the upcoming financial period from 2014 to 2020, the proposed objectives of the EU's reformed common agricultural policy include 3 themes, food, the environment and rural areas. For this reason, it is necessary to provide for clearer regulation or more precise regulation of certain provisions of the applicable legislation, in particular the issue of food donation, the provision of support from the state budget, the implementation of measures under the rural development programme, the jurisdiction and the conduct of inspections, and to regulate certain areas that have not been regulated so far in one of the legal regulations. The same applies to implementation... on the application of international standards for food in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules on aromatised wine products, and provisions relating to table water. In addition to these statistics, so I'm going to say something about how the actual value of agricultural production has been reduced in the past 10 years, agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately decreasing. In addition, the 2016 data indicate this. Therefore, that agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia is 1.56 million hectares of agricultural products. So so much has been used, which is 0.3% less than in 2013. Also published data from the State Statistics Office with a state since 1 June 2016. At the same time, the number of poultry was reduced by 23.8%, the number of pigs by 20.3%, and cattle by 7.5%, according to the 2013 data. For the Republic of Croatia, rural development policy is very important, since almost 40% of the population lives in rural areas or on average, on average, compared to the EU, it is 24%. In this respect, the ratio of the population to more than 60 and less than 20 years in rural areas is more unfavourable than in urban areas and other than natural extinction, migration and youth towards cities due to lack of professional opportunities, only makes the demographic, economic and development picture of rural areas worse. Therefore, the proposal for this new Agriculture Act will seek to ensure sustainable development of agriculture, achieve the principles of general food security and the conservation of natural agricultural resources, improve and increase competitiveness, and strengthen the social and social economic and environmental role of agriculture. The questions that we consider to be more specific and in this respect and our suggestions, first of all, apply to Article 7 where, in the context of guiding the objectives besides those, the agricultural producer has been left out. In fact, the increase in the income of the agricultural producer should be one of the basic objectives of the agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, and in this proposal, the law does not even mention it. Furthermore, as regards the procedures laid down in Article 15(2) of the Decision which has been adopted by the paying agency for the users of the measures of this Act and the regulations adopted under this Act are not administrative acts. It should be pointed out here that irregular acts are, in fact, making it difficult or impossible to impose direct, forced implementation of decisions taken because they do not have the property of an executive act. The non-functionality of such a system is more closely demonstrated in procedures e.g. in respect of decisions on the reimbursement of the paying agency's funds. In Article 3 of the same Act, it is necessary to lay down clearly the way in which the decision is to be delivered to users of the measures provided for in this Act and the regulations adopted under this Act by the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and to determine whether the delivery is by electronic means or by mail. So that's one technical thing. Why are we looking at that? In the light of the average age of the holder of the OPGs, and of the problems relating to the poor information literacy of the holder may arise in the case of the prescribed paragraph of this Act. So here, maybe we should add that in more detail. Furthermore, we believe that this legislative proposal should certainly encourage the integration or association of small agricultural producers, which would affect their competitiveness, and in this respect we propose a normative regulation of their association obligations in the production processes and distribution of products or other ways to prescribe measures and rules related to the common organisation of the agricultural market. The importance of including local and regional self-government units in setting up agro-centres or agro-incubators should also be highlighted and the importance of clearly determining the needs of manufacturers and strategic planning of these activities. Local communities should organise, establish their own conditions, opportunities and needs, and in some way re-enhancing an active approach and appropriate solutions to restructure, organise and adapt local agricultural production to the needs of time. In some ways, local self-government should be an initiator of change and in this sense should design a development policy, propose to local producers and small entrepreneurs solutions and opportunities, and generate systematic development activities and connections that lead to sustainable development. Next, I'd like to look back on the article. 18. which speaks of rural development measures where it is pointed out that the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia is being adopted by the Government. I believe that in this programme that is in some way the core of agricultural policy should be discussed and brought to the Parliament. The same applies to the government's state support programme on the Ministry's proposal. I'm thinking again that this program should go through the parliamentary procedure. When it comes to rules, I think they don't give too much information to small and medium-sized producers because they only get real information when the competition opens. Only then can the manufacturer assess whether it is acceptable as a user, whether it has the necessary documentation and what its prospects are in this competition. It's a problem that already at that time is, for him it's too late, for that small producer to get into such a competition and engage. Therefore, the regulation should contain the basic elements that are now in the competition. It may also be necessary to consider the obligation to prescribe agronomic employment, i.e. veterinarians in agricultural holdings through the provisions of this law. The yields per unit of area in Croatian agricultural production are not in the European regulation and are also affecting the competitiveness of our agriculture, and the reasons should be sought in the non-engagement of agronoms and veterinarians in primary production. On the other hand, a negative trend in the number of students enrolled in colleges in, agricultural or veterinary medicine has been observed. Also as a positive example, I would certainly like to highlight the operational programme for national minorities and its activity 281 so where, in areas that are demographic, economic and socialally weakened and significantly below the national development average, greater financial support and specific development are provided, development instruments providing minimum standards, municipal and social infrastructures and financial instruments, therefore in areas which are now of particular national concern and which will soon be determined by the Law on Supported Areas. It is precisely that there is a desire for entrepreneurs and family farms who cannot participate in existing credit lines in some way through these instruments that I was talking about to help them and that is certainly something to be commended for. This, in some ways, supports the development of young and small farmers facing credit and bank borrowing problems in order to benefit from some of the rural development measures. In principle, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this Proposal for a Law on Agriculture in the first reading, here are these well-intentioned suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96068	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96069	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary and Associates, and I welcome you as well. The agricultural law is a roofing law of agricultural production of each country. It should stem from measures and guidelines of the EU's common agricultural policy and the main act for its development is the National Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development. Since we have been talking about the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development for years and we still haven't. But we make all agricultural laws independent of that. I appeal to the Ministry, ministers to you, to your associates to give ourselves the effort, to give ourselves some deadlines for making them and that we can discuss them as a complete document and as such bring them forward, and it will be the basis for future laws that we will bring to agriculture. It was spoken of by my predecessors, told by previous ministers and never welcomed. At that point, the interest in agriculture may be greater by the public, but also by the representatives, not by the basic livestock law, such as the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals in the past week, four MPs discussed. And this fact that we're here now 15 is not a very representative number. We know that livestock production accounts for 38% of agricultural production and we like to say for agriculture that it is a strategic branch of the economy, it is certain that the needs and quantities of certain agricultural products should be processed in this Strategy as regulatory mechanisms in situations which dramatically bounce from normal as well as the direction we want to move and not to be carried by the verse. Of course, that's how countries work in the environment, so-called. They intervene with regulatory authorities at a given time, as well as with smart countries, to ensure the self-sufficiency of basic agricultural products. For example, precisely for the sake of such protection of its agricultural production, neighbouring countries which did not bring... to import, for example, pork and juniper meat, so that they don't get disturbed by the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, other EU members such as Austria address this through informal market regulation and the need to import from their market-accompanied agency. Lately, our Minister Tolusic has been trying to get some interventions, too, and thank you for that, Minister, how much you will succeed or how much time you have managed to show, but at least you tried. On the other hand, because of the heavy sale of cattle and the low price of pigs, heroes, there is no interest in this job, so these days there are surpluses of corn in northwestern Croatia that there is no one to buy. And if they will, there's nowhere to place them because of a lack of silo capacity. There's nothing better to do with selling cattle that small producers don't have to sell to anyone. And we heard before the situation is similar with Mandarins, melons, watermelons, grapes in Dalmatia. So this strategy should try to address market regulation especially for small goods placements is the big problem. And so from year to year there are amplitudes of surpluses and shortages of agricultural products on the market because in any case, less and less cattle are produced and we have more and more agricultural products that there is no one to spend here in the Republic of Croatia. The livestock production is particularly sensitive, has an additional value and needs to be particularly nurtured because it is a multiplier times 5. of it living warlord and food industry and trade, slaughterhouses, carriers, construction, it is becoming weaker and smaller. ... The resolution of such anomalies within the country's sector should provide for and address this agricultural production strategy that we are talking about, which we do not have, and not that one year everyone sows wheat because last year was a good price, and the second year corn and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the strategy, it is extremely important to provide national funding, Ministers, I now ask and appeal to you, the national means of withdrawing the EU's full envelope for the '20 programming period. '26. Because without it, this law won't be much use to him. In particular, a large contribution and assistance to this sector because the new VAT law, which significantly facilitates the business of farmers due to an inter-step of 15%, will make the product more accessible to the consumer and the product more accessible and the producers will be more liquid because of smaller VATs. Sure that we could talk about a smaller VAT and that some countries in the environment have both VAT and 5% and 6%. By reducing VAT to fresh meat, fish, eggs and live animals, domestic production is directly supported. In order to ensure the stability of domestic agricultural production, it would be good to install in this law the obligation to pay off agricultural aid, the first part in November, the second part in February, in order for farmers to prepare themselves well for the agricultural crop, you ministers have introduced it, and so far it has been done, and we need to stick very tightly as the Holy Scriptures, if this could be incorporated into the law, it would be even safer for farmers. Regardless of the above mentioned comment, the law is necessary for many moments to pass both the intention and the path of this law is going in the right direction and it will be good and necessary because it is necessary. And now something about a metric. Due to the desperate difficulties in implementing the applicable agricultural law, in particular on the implementation of implementing acts and regulations with the EU law proposal, the measures and objectives of the agricultural policy, as well as sources of funding, are further regulated. Agriculture is defined as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of 12 EU regulations whose competence in the implementation is divided between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and other bodies with which the Ministry of Agriculture can exchange data, the conclusion of cooperation agreements. The paying agency is designated as the implementing body of the EU Agriculture and Regulation law. The allocation of agricultural policy measures on the basis of the sharing of measures under the common agricultural policy to measures referred to in the first pillar, direct payments and measures referred to in the second pillar of rural development, and other measures aiming at achieving the objectives, shall be determined by the agricultural and rural development strategies. That's the strategy I was talking about at the beginning. The financing and measures of agricultural policy are possible from EU funds, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the budget of units of local and regional self-government and donations of other sources. International standards for food, guidelines and codes of good practice are also introduced. The Ministry of Agriculture shall be appointed as the national competent central coordinating authority for tasks related to... and assumes the role of national contact point for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from the Croatian Bureau of Standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A food donation system is prescribed, the Croatian Government will, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, adopt a plan to prevent and reduce food waste efforts for a period of 4 years. The procedures for the protection of the name of agricultural food products are simplified and clearly determine the procedure for the registration of the label at EU level and the time limit for the adoption of protection and the time limit for the objection to national protection procedures is reduced. A clearer procedure for authorising control bodies, registers of farmers, paying agencies shall be regulated, so that the data are used to report and control financial support. These data are used to control financial support and other measures of agricultural policy, the obligation to register farmers and direct support, including support for extremely sensitive sectors in agriculture. So far, they've been fat oil, tobacco, dairy cows and fertilized sows. This law does not state which sectors are extremely sensitive, and I would like to say that the olive oil and tobacco sector is being very helpful, somewhat weaker in the dairy sector, while support for breeders that have so far been 530 kuna per feeder is now being reduced to deminimise support from cca 110 000 kuna per holding in 3 years, which means that for the economy of 1000 feeders, about 110 kuna per feeder in 3 years or 37 kuna per year. All smart countries solve it so that something public, and something hidden, gives subsidies by the stern and up to 300 euros a year, of course through the benefits that we have started this year, in accordance with the law on well-being and regulation, we have started to solve it as of this year. Minister, I appeal to you to... sensitive sectors, to state by law, to count, to find ways to help the breeding feed sector and, of course, dairy cows to better monitor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the production-related support, it goes for the promotion of production, so the novelty in this law is to encourage milk and dairy products, beef and veal and sheep and goat meat, instead of so far cows in milk and breast milk production,... and sheep and goats which I think is good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, fruit and vegetables, sugar tail and feed protein conditions remain. In addition to consulting and educating farmers, the interest should be as large as possible production per unit of surface that is modest to us. In accordance with the provisions of production-related support, where production is so far encouraged, rather than animal farming, it would be good for larger OPGs, or more together, and especially in agricultural cooperatives or companies to condition the employment of agronomics, related to SO or the size or number of employees or several of them together. We would certainly raise production to the desired amount, but we would allow the employment of agronomies, which no one needs, and accordingly, there is no interest in the interest of that profession. Well, colleges are enrolling only 30% of this year's students, and it happened in Osijek, and that's something that's extremely worrying, I'm asking you, Minister, if there's any way we can help, it would be very good that we can. A clearer definition is made of dealing with administrative inspection, official controls and control of paying agencies. The rules on strong alcoholic wines and aromatised wine products are also clearly defined. The issue is regulated with the placing on the market, natural and mineral spring waters, this bill improves the framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, has a good direction of movement, there is still room for improvement until the second reading, according to proposals and remarks at the plenary session and in the debate. In view of the transparency of synchronisation with the EU legislation, it is necessary to adopt it, we expect a strategy of agricultural production and rural development of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, as clear guidelines and answers, in which direction Croatian agriculture wants to go. I also appeal again to you and your associates, given that we are passing extremely many laws especially of agricultural law, especially laws that come from your ministry to follow them in parallel and rules, so that these laws may be enforceable and enforceable immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96070	Thank you. We're continuing to work in a club of MPs. Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96071	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys and Associates, before us are in the process of reading the Agriculture Act. What we all know, we know that in 2015 the Agriculture Act was passed and that obviously the ministry did not decide on the method or methodology of amending and supplementing the existing law, but decided to do a new law, which is legitimate, we should all ask ourselves together what is the point and what is the purpose of all this, for the simple reason, which is a little bit, in the transitional and final provisions, and so there from art. 167 to 170 there are a number of regulations already passed, which are in force, so there will be some technical difficulties, but okay, the ministry decided on the method. I looked at some of the EU directives, and I was wondering if there were any directives that had been amended or something since 2015, so that was one of the other reasons, but that is not the case, obviously this minister and the ministry in this meeting wanted to have their own new law. Similarly, a strategy for the management of agricultural land and all resources related to agriculture has been adopted, and that the law is one tool that will allow for simpler implementation, it would be equally clear. So, of these strategies and non-preparation strategies is one of the cancer wounds of our society. The strategies are documents, which are important to bring in for several reasons, the first reason is, you have to have it, to make any action plans and other work at all, which is a formal reason. The second reason with this is that the state talks about its definition, through the country's strategy talks about the importance of a particular segment of the economy, through the country's strategy, it also gives some because it brings it to the parliament, it gives some frameworks, so countries that have strategies and which are politely treated with these strategies and everything that is done, regardless of who is in power, whether this option or whether it is an option, whether the minister is changing or not. The strategy is the direction of the state, and therefore they are being adopted, the EU's strategies were now a series of 2030 strategies, and serious strategies even speak for 2050, with them not being listed in stone, so there are no changes, but depending on the opportunities, or, in times of trouble, things are changing. When you are discussing any law, and this is also about this law, then you must know what the point is, and what the goal is and what we want with this law to achieve and improve. They have 3 elements or 3 important things that make this law, space, people and the market. We've got room, unfortunately. Take a look, once you are, there are a number of portals, i.e. at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, there is a nice portal, so when a man is interested, he can see the maps of Croatia, which are on February 15th, '68. They needed the ministry for some other reasons, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and that reason was to see construction. But what's on those cards, you can always switch them off from 2011 without saying that you can switch Google in real time. So look how much land in Croatia was processed in '68. And how much is it today? Today, these lands have turned into forests, so very little has been turned into construction, when you talk about percentages, because it seems to us, that it is much more, much more land is given to nature to work and not to work man. So, it's always an important space where it works, the space in which it works, and that's that of the Agricultural Land Act, and it would be very good to see, some of the consequences of that law, let's see, what that law has improved, whether or not the land is actually being processed more than it was when the law was done. The other topic is people. We can have the laws most perfect in this world, laws can be ideal, we can compete with them for the best law. But if we don't have people, who will be ready, under that law, or, thanks to that law, to allow these people to work, we go free. That means, there's a few segments again, one segment is that really when recently there were Days of Croatian Products on Jelačić's salary and when you descend, you can't pass, I'm two times past because I was curious about what it was on the days of Croatian products offered. I was curious about what was offered from the agricultural aspect, I was interested in seeing what was there, whether it was a step. We had, I'm not going to be simple, but we had textile products, socks, T-shirts, and I'm not going to tell you what it was, it was on a few stands, we had liquor products, so we had honey, and it had a lot of honey and a lot of aronia products and some bit of gum and dried products on two, three stands. So on the days when Croatia says Buy Croatian, on the square, on Jelačić's salary, two days were products. And that's something that should actually be worrying. When you go outside and there are the days of a particular municipality or city and there are always some booths and you go there, we really see for the first time that there are some younger people, so they're not just people at the end of their working life but there are some younger people who organized themselves into certain OPGs, but basically lately it's been to you, I was in Gareshnica recently and I was just interested in it, so there were honey, they were products of irony and there were only plums in one booth. Then of course, I'm like someone who cooks at home, asking what's up with the bright ones. The pearls are plums that are, say, for dumplings are the best pearls, and then they tell me they're gone, why they're gone, etc. So that's a series of things we have to ask ourselves and see what happened here because something that was tradition, it's gone. So these plums in one piece have been destroyed and a certain accident, but the question is what do we want with it? Likewise, for the first time this year in Croatia, I know about the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb. I was interested in the Faculty of Agronomics for some other reasons, which is related to another law where it is for those who are educated in that university and are called the regional architect but are educated at the Faculty of Agriculture, we will say by another law that they have nothing to do in Croatia but we will see in the second reading what they have decided to do. I was interested in that reason, and I asked how many students were enrolled this year. This year, students at the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb were enrolled 30% less than last year, so I don't speak backwards for 10 years, I speak 30% less than last year. My people, it's an alarming situation, an alarming situation that we're going to have, and we're going to study the frame for some other countries and where we're going to need it because agriculture is something that I'm sure we won't, we're not going to tell agriculture we don't need it, everyone from this pay phone is going to be sitting right, left or center, whether it's ruling or opposition at this point, talking and talking about agriculture, what we should do, how we should do, so we have some traditions, that's one of our traditions. 30% of fewer students are enrolled this year at the Faculty of Agriculture, Engineering and Shipbuilding in Zagreb are enrolled in the same students as in the previous year. Now I ask you, do we train students from the budget for other countries or do we educate them for this? So not that we should have, we should have made something of my people, made it possible, given at all support to both that college and those kids to enroll, we didn't do it. And in this way, actually, on the one hand, it's declared that agriculture is important to us, but on the other hand, reality is a little different. And the third topic is the topic of the market. There is not a single law that does not come from this ministry, and I am using the opportunity, I almost forgot, my colleague Bulj called Minister Tolusic this time, but regardless, Minister Tolusic is from that contingent of very ministers who come and are and listen to what we have to say about it whether or not it's a different story, but they are there at least in the opening work and a lot of debate, so there is a need to be fair and say it is so, so I use the opportunity to emphasize it and say it. So we're always talking about the market that it's important for the Croatian product to come to the market, we're talking about big trade chains where we don't find Croatian products and now it's a question of what we do about that market. And a little bit when you go by the law and you see a little bit, so there's some stuff here again, but three topics in the law were interesting to me. I was interested in the topic of mineral water, it was an interesting topic for me regarding flour and the topic of food waste, which is on its own, so it will be in the Waste Act, but it is the subject of food donation. And now, when it comes to mineral waters, they have some other countries and the EU and beyond that that have strict regulations regarding the distribution of mineral waters in such a way that they wanted to favour domestic or those that are which I do not see any major problem but then your law must be operational. And when you read a little bit about mineral waters that are going to be on the market and when you see a little what and how and what can be then the rule goes back into the law. All the laws we lay down have a bunch of rules. The fellow who spoke before me talked about the rules being made. The law will not be passed without regulations and I, the rules you have to do some technical elements and you determine the essence by law and then when you have a little inspection related to mineral water, two inspections will act. One inspection will be a sanitary hospital in the Ministry of Health and another inspection will be an inspection... which will be related to food, and I don't know if it's going to be at the Ministry of Agriculture or it's going to get that big inspection, but in any case, if it's really about me, which, if we've already decided to have, re-inspect at the state level, then it'd be good to have inspectors there together, and not that there's one in the Ministry, one in the Great, and that's a matter of doing at all because we just need to know what we want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether we want mineral waters coming in whether they're gassed or not on our market to be strictly controlled and matched by our market. I'll take advantage of the opportunity because some other things are likely to happen to other colleagues. One mineral water, I'm not going to say that because it would be absolutely rude, was interested in going to the Russian market. I don't have to tell you what's on the Russian market, which means for you to have a mineral water of Croatia going there to market. And then there was an analysis there. And the analysis of that water showed maltenes that the mud was in that water, the maltene was an analysis. Of course, the one who wanted to distribute that water to that market asked to be an independent analysis of another laboratory that showed the exceptional quality of that water, but the Russian market took up one other water from a more powerful EU country, which of course, knowing that this one would come, automatically the market would decrease, and perhaps the price would be slightly lower. So, the theme of mineral water is extremely important. It's important to protect ourselves, but let's see how we do it. That you have provisions there. 65th, and then behind that you have these provisions that are related to inspections. Because if two inspections are done, they won't end up with one. And something important. It's about donating food. And you have orders from an officer. From 67 to 69, how food that has not expired or has already expired can be donated. That was two or three years ago, I think all the TVs, all the portals, all the newspapers were talking about how we had the soup kitchens. Unfortunately, we have them, but that's our reality. How we have those self-services and it's just as much our reality and how there are people who want to donate food, and they can't donate that food. And now, among other things, this Law has tried to define it in a certain way, but we still don't define it until the end, but we have immediately incorporated three provisions of the Law and then in one provision, but a special rule will be adopted on that. If he's decided to pass a new law, all right, it's an extra effort for the Ministry. But before that, there was supposed to be a strategy, so from the strategy that the Law was operational and just like that law, there were some things that needed to be solved that mattered to the end, not to switch to certain regulations. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU Club will not support this Law in the first reading if what we said through the discussion until the second reading is accepted, and unfortunately so far we have seen that this is not the case, for the second reading we will say our position, but for the first reading this is our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96072	Thank you, colleague. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96073	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, here we have here a proposal for a Law on Agriculture and we see in fact how much interest there is among MPs who have come forward in individual debates, I would say for all citizens because there is not one citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is not touched by agriculture and agricultural products. Of course it's an important topic. Here's what I have to say. I thank the Minister for coming here. If it was at the invitation of a colleague, Bulja, or he came by accident, it doesn't matter. Here, thank him. I personally became convinced of the minister's good intentions. He came to me in my midst, he gave support to one significant milk producer in our country, one siren, and I can really say all the best about his engagement at least as far as my end is concerned. However, I will make a small history of all that is happening in agriculture in the last 28 years of the Croatian state and I do not know how many ministers in these 28 years. It was really a lot, a lot of ministers, a lot of promises, laws and all, good intentions. However, what results came from all this together can be seen from where our agriculture is. I'm going to quote a professor from the Faculty of Agronomics who said literally this, said that agriculture didn't fall any lower and lower, but that it slowly returned to a level of 30 years ago. That's amazing. So, one of the professors at the Faculty of Agronomics says we're with agriculture where we were 30 years ago. And how literally all the ministers have done so far in these 28 years of the Croatian state for agriculture, here, that's the result. Some have worked for themselves, given incentives, some have been small pests, forgive my expression, and the result is that our agriculture is at this level as it is now. I'm going to say one more thing that surprised me with one of the businessmen when we talked about the general state of the country, how much state, county, municipality can help. He says there's not much you can do. But frankly, I'll be the most pleased if we don't get away. It's something that an entrepreneur says, but a lot of the farmers who told me, just don't take it away from us. I don't think that this country, in most cases, is getting back at farmers and economics. It's probably not that kind of a word about you, dear minister, you're trying, you can see that here, you have the will and desire, but if we're really going to do something concrete with this new proposal of the agricultural law, we're going to see it over time. I'd like to believe that's the right way. But we'll see. Some examples also don't speak in the right direction, and I've been in a little siren for a while, a little siren that has no idea, 14, 15... The throats, the cheeses, it's a small family farm with 15 cows and journalists come and ask that entrepreneur, says here, so how is it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Give us a little talk about all this together. Look, I did it because I'm valuable, because I have a valuable family, because we have a vision, because we have a strategy, and we've succeeded. We do a lot of work, we're worth it, and that's it. And now that the press has asked me the same thing, how much help we have, unfortunately, helped them, I must say, we have relatively little help. They did it because they have knowledge, because they have desire, because they have vision and strategy. And I would have to ask if Croatian agriculture has a strategy, unfortunately not. All these 28 years, or how many ministers, no one has made the right strategy for Croatian agriculture, it's sad. And we're talking about, that agriculture is a strategic branch, we're a strategic branch, and we don't have a strategy, whether it's in the works, and the minister is, I think even this year has said somewhere that the strategy is in preparation, so here, I want you to have the strategy as soon as possible, so that farmers know what they're making. I must admit that here I am, reading both tonight and yesterday this proposal of the Agriculture Act, which has 150-160 pages. It's really abundant, I'm looking, I'm looking for something, I have to admit I didn't find what I thought I'd find. So he tells me about some key problems in agriculture and the way we're going to solve the problems in agriculture. I wasn't even hoping for a strategy if it was gonna be a special document. But I think that's the key strategy of Croatian agriculture. I left myself a few cartoons, and I know something about agriculture, because now I live in the country, in cooperation and today. And I'm talking to the farmers, so I've learned something. I'm the head of the local self-government unit, and I've got some knowledge about it, so I've got myself some kind of hints, which we want from agriculture. I'd say three things most important. Allow enough food for our needs. The second thing, to produce enough food for tourism, the third thing is to produce some surpluses for exports. What's in it for us today? We don't even have this first, we don't have enough food for our needs. I say, I would be happy if, at least first, it satisfied, but without a serious strategy, without a serious strategy, without serious access, without serious help to the state of all agricultural producers we will not do so. I think all this stuff we've been doing in agriculture so far, it's been a verse. The big ones knew how to handle it, the big ones found the market, they got along with the incentives, and as far as the plasma is concerned, I'd say it's a big one, and we're really talking about a very big, very satisfying situation. But our little ones, they shut themselves down, they fail, and they don't see their future in agriculture. We have concrete things, say, that in trade chains and tourism we have over 50% of products that are not from Croatia, over 50%. Here it was also one survey of the Faculty of Agriculture in Tourism we have over 50% of products that are not Croatian products. Why do we have that? Why are we importing most of the products? And that trend is increasing, that there are more and more products, which is why, we have more and more tourists, more and more demanding, more products we are looking for, and we are not producing anymore. That trend just needs to be reversed. We need to meet our needs, as much as possible for food in the retail chain, in tourism, and that will be how we will save agriculture and farmers. So... , advantage of domestic production [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Fellows, please be quiet, thank you.]] Is that Maras again, is it? [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Vocabulary is very unnatural for you.]] The advantage of domestic production should be a short path from field to table, but provided we have sufficient quantities and quality. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: I apologize for interrupting, please, do not, undetected. Thank you.]] In that situation, even prices, are often not crucial. It is about quality, fast delivery of goods, from field to table and freshness. And there's definitely a bigger advantage with domestic products than with imports. And we still have a large number of agricultural products from imports, which are poor quality, which are lagging behind our producers both by quality and by quantity, but we simply don't have enough, are not well organized. And that's where the state needs to do the best it can. All the result is that our children are leaving the village, the desolation of agricultural land. Here, in my environment, some say, that 50% of the agricultural area is unprocessed. We're looking at what Slavonia looks like, the kids are leaving, the villages are disappearing, and we still don't have a strategy, we don't have a clear goal and a vision of how to help our farmers. I was not long ago on one trip to Ireland, and what I just wanted to do was travel by train and bus, look out the window, what it looks like is the country that is one of the richest in the world, according to some estimates in Europe, per GDP, per capita, I think it's even Europe's 2nd. You know what I saw? I saw a country far more modest than Croatia. There are hundreds of kilometers I was driving by train and bus, just pastures, no farmland, as clear as we are, only pastures and thousands, literally thousands of small farmers. Thousands. And it's a country that has one of the biggest GDP in the world. And we say that Croatia is God's day, God's day, and I agree that we have God's day earth, we have all the possible products that we can produce here, but we don't. So why are we talking about strategy? We are also talking about the strategy because examples are happening to us, and this summer there were examples that the watermelon manufacturer throws its watermelons, because it cannot place them in Croatia and we are importing a Macedonian watermelon in retail chains. There were examples of an apple manufacturer saying come, read apples and wear, have neither men nor have a placement nor are it worth it more to me, wear apples. So we also have in some cases agricultural products, obviously we don't know how to place them. And there needs the state's help, interventions so that really these farmers don't throw out watermelons, apples or tomorrow's Mandarins or I don't know what. Let's organize through the strategy what to produce, how to place, how to help it to agricultural producers and not that with in tourist consumption import food makes up about 50% and domestic food cannot be placed. Let's protect the domestic manufacturer. I always say a positive example or maybe a negative Hungarian. The Hungarians said he couldn't. In the EU, we will work to protect our producer, farmer, the whole of Europe resents them, threatens with penalties and what happens, Hungarians continue to protect their producer. I'm going to read one of the texts of this bill. It is said that the draft law regulates the continuation of implementation related to the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and ensures that the regulation of the European Parliament is implemented. Well, my fellow ministers, if we think the EU is going to help us put agriculture on our good feet and help every farmer, I think we're wrong. They won't help us, they care about their farmers, they care about their farmers placing their products on our market and probably our better quality products end up on the shelves of these European countries because they know what quality is. Well, if such assistance is from the EU, thank you no, we don't need such help and if we don't do something ourselves that should be based on our farmers, I don't think we should count too much on the EU, as it is said, "Trust in and in their paws". And I think the only salvation for Croatian agriculture is the Croatian product on the shelves of Croatian trade chains. Croatian product which is placed over tourism because these are really great, great opportunities. Connect and connect green and blue Croatia no matter what it means. But it just doesn't happen. Because increasing the number of tourists, what I was saying, reduces the share of Croatian products in tourism and on shelves. It is crucial for agriculture to end negative trends, to strengthen the pace in the development of agriculture, we know what the state wants from agriculture, what are the main objectives and what are the main objectives in agriculture. If the aim is to increase production, determine to what level and what products we need, which intensity and in which area. Let us brand our products as quality, healthy, environmentally acceptable, fresh. We have to create a product image and then the result won't go away and that result in a relatively short time. This is not all I've said for the pay phone, but rather, to contribute to a better state of agriculture, to have enough food for our domestic needs, to ensure the existence of all farmers and to activate abandoned agricultural areas and revive villages where people once had perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96074	Thank you, Comrade Prelec. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next colleague is Željko Lenart, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, please welcome colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96075	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, Croats and Croats and dear fellow farmers and farmers. I don't know if I'd be happy to discuss the law or be sad or cry over the situation in Croatian agriculture, there's a lot of impressions in me because I'm here to discuss both as a peasant and as an agro and as a representative and as a bitter Croatian citizen of the state left by young people especially from rural areas. The law on agriculture, a nice name but in this law here all night I've been listing it, I haven't seen anything that will change anything in agriculture. The government boasts of reforms and reform is not to write a new law, reform means that something drastic is changing in a sector that is not going in a good direction. And agriculture is exactly a sector that does not go well but collapses in the Republic of Croatia, we are all aware of that, and those who are in power and those who are opposed and those who are not involved in politics and those who are digging through containers, we all know that agriculture in Croatia is in bananas. Food production in Croatia has no alternative. Food is a strategic product like water, as energy, as telecommunications, without food there is no survival of any people and poor is that people who have to build their survival on import food of poor quality, suspicious health quality, which is exactly us Croats who live like that, and then we're surprised when we're discussing different laws, and we're saying that there's an increase in cancer disease. One of these big ones is food right now. This law does not bring any new measures to stop the agricultural collapse, everyone here was talking about the strategy almost. After 27 years of the existence of an independent Republic of Croatia, we still don't have a strategy on agriculture. And we all crash that agriculture should be our strategic branch. If it's a strategic branch, then it won't just change by law. Its bad direction, it must already change its policies towards that strategic branch. Agriculture policy in the Republic of Croatia has been catastrophic all these 27 years. I will not blame only one government, nor will I blame Minister Tolusic for this law not doing any good because he did not write it, I was a secretary of state, so I know how the laws in the ministries arise, and it is unfortunate that the Ministry of Agriculture under whose auspices... Mr. Djakic, do you have something to say? Well, you'll get a chance, you'll have an individual discussion, then tell me. It's sad that the Ministry of Agriculture, which employs several thousand people, can't... [[Please, please. Please proceed.]] reform in agriculture than we write the law to carry out the form, bring it to this high house, and agriculture goes the way it goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main measures of agricultural policy in this Act are rural development measures as the first, we see that all measures that are all directed towards rural development were bad, and you have proof that Slavonia is empty, that people go to Ireland every day, to Germany, across Europe, that many Slavons work there on farms, and they had their own farms. There the esteemed workers were well paid for the job, and in the Republic of Croatia they were not good and could not survive with their work. Direct support measures, which I agree, must be without support, at this point there is no competitive Croatian farmer. However, there are things that are not good. We encourage productions that don't give a product. We have a lot of nuts, hazelnuts and many plantations that have not shown anywhere how many products they produce, and they get even for organic production of significant direct support. I agree that support must be as large as possible in the extent that the Republic of Croatia can afford because without it and this few people involved in production will fail. Measures of arrangements and organisations of the agricultural products market. That's the third policy in this law. Well, our market isn't working. My dear friends, I have both ratar and vegetable production. I'm going to end the vegetable because half my production is going down, and no one in this world of half the production can be profitable. We have an apple problem today. Here, today I've got an apple sent by my Moslavina fruit farmers, and on behalf of all other apple producers, here I'm going to give it to the minister, so maybe by next year something happens to those apples that are usually sold at the malls at 10 kuna pounds. Agricultural production is not only important to farmers who should create their income to live on and on their families, to stay living in that rural area, to cramp it, to keep it clean and sustainable, but also to Croatian citizens, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, however important some of them think that they do not care about agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, it is important because it is important that they eat and how they feed. And Croatian food is certainly quality, the Croatian apple is far more quality than all those we import today, and we are facing problems today that we don't have people to read our apples, that we don't have the price for apples, that people don't know because they're going to sell and who they're going to sell to. We don't have enough coolers in which we can store and the goods simply fail. And what these producers had to invest, these are inputs, we know that the apple is sprayed 20-25 times during vegetation, that the expensive workforce that reads it and at the end-end these people are going to record losses because we didn't organize ourselves. How important is agriculture and economy? According to the Austrian agricultural chamber, i.e. Styria's agricultural chamber to create almost two jobs in the economy each job in agriculture. Every farmer also needs to shop and maintain and buy various products, because of it there are services and many things in the economy. But we try because otherwise I can't call it to reduce the number of these agricultural jobs because people just don't see that existence anymore, they're bloody tortured, no matter what modern tractor they have to create a product they don't know the price for. We're going to war. Warning is the only branch of agriculture that's worth it right now. We're just all wondering how far? It's much easier for the OPGs to get state agricultural land, so they have 150 hectares, so times 2.5 thousand kuna, so they've earned something on what they've been shining if they've done it in quality, and they've made a solid income to live. However, there are OPGs who do not have a state agricultural country, which suffer from small land and I think they should have found places in this law to help them grow to that kind of sustainable size. We're talking about funds. Many farmers complain that they applied, that the number of points needed was achieved, crossed the line, but did not win. But we can't base the development of agriculture on what we're going to get from Europe. I'll quote to you Stephen Radic who in his one speech, when he spoke of Europe, said you took him to the one who was waiting for bread from someone else's bag. And if we're going to base ourselves on bread from someone else's bag, we're going to go down worse than we did today. The agricultural land law that we discussed at the HSS Club is not good. Done is what he is, we'll see in the implementation of what's going to happen, who's going to cry, who's going to gloat, but I don't think he's going to be good for agriculture in the end. Today we talked here and about counseling, about teaching farmers. Today, we have an advisory service that employs mostly agronomists who work there for 5 to 6,000 kunas. So I'm asking you, some man who studied for so many years, learned to work for so little money. So all people with a lot of knowledge leave that service and will not stay for so little money to work in the advisory service. Who will advise farmers? There were also problems with food placements in tourism. Tom... Twenty-seven years of connecting green and blue furrows, and what happens? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We sold out hotels, gave tourism to foreigners in hands, foreign shopping centres were built on the coast, and our green chin will not end up on the Adriatic again, it will not end with foreign tourists coming, but will again come the side, i.e. import food placed on our market. Agricultural producers, whether they were small OPGs, medium, whether they were large agricultural companies, they all have their own problems. I'm on the ground talking to both small and big, and unfortunately everybody's crying today, and even the big ones who have silos and droughts and large agricultural areas, who have 50 employees, the most modern mechanisms, are simply thinking about how they're going to move on because they don't see their own safety in this country where the laws are written in a way that you can simply expect if someone is after you like this or a result, whether you're guilty or not. The problems with agriculture are seeding. A large number of farmers will confirm the problems with the seeds we use, which are extremely expensive and extremely poor quality, and is placed on the Croatian market. The problem of the workforce I was already talking about, because people went with their stomachs after bread, they're tired of waiting and hearing about it will be better, Petrochemy Kutina, our stability in fertilising agricultural cultures is also on the nocturnal feet, going into privatisation and asking what will be of them, and then we'll see how stable our products will be if we go wrong in that privatisation. Expensive loans so you in Germany today have credits with minus 1%. We have HPB, it's the only bank we have left, so we haven't used it as a state to help this agriculture sector get farmers to get cheap loans because they can't get expensive loans. GMO, we opened the door to GMOs in Croatia instead of having our comparative advantage that we have healthy and clean food, healthy and clean land, that we used it on the market we allowed... to pollute our country with GMOs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law, which is like this, which is not a reform on agriculture, which is why agriculture will not go in a better direction, I am sorry, I would like to see that no matter who it was, who it was, who it was governmented the state to finally realize that we need people, that we have to fight for it, and that we do not have to listen to all EU directives, blindly implement them, and worse still, they are even stricter than they are in Europe. The HSS counseling club will not support this law. We think the law is bad, like I said, it doesn't do any good. He's not even taking it to the bathroom, but you can only rip it up like this and throw it in old paper, even though we've spent a certain part of the forest to print it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96076	Thank you, too. Before we move to an individual debate, I welcome students and students and professors of tourist catering schools from Split who have now joined us. Good afternoon. . Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We're continuing an individual debate. First application is colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96077	Thank you very much. First of all, it's a good thing the minister showed up because this is a very important law awaited by farmers. The remains of farmers who didn't go to Ireland or I don't know where. But the fact is, this law doesn't solve anything. Here is 8 laws that are now existing, which have brought farmers where they have brought him into a catastrophic situation, essentially laws that suit import lobbys because if they don't fit import lobbys, it wouldn't happen that people drink their orchards, drink peaches, it's an example that I'll always repeat, where a young man who has a family invested in an orchard and finally couldn't sell it. For what? Because it's a strong import lobby, because it's the biggest vermin, and they say it's not pests, just the weeds we have in the fields. The biggest vermin are people with imported lobbys. Because it must not happen, that a young farmer who feeds his family by producing fruit, that he must eventually drink an orchard. And this year, this same farmer who has table grapes, the products have vineyards that can't sell his table grapes on the market and that man pays. It's his only income, his only income. And so the Dalmatian Zagora was forgotten, left behind, only that we have the PR sessions of the government in Split, where they promise irrigation, so they forget that the Sinjsko polje exists, too, as a huge field, where Cetina passes, but therefore in the election campaign, the minister and mayor who was then a candidate, but was changed by Ževrnja, go to the cattlemen and promise to irrigate the Sinjsko polje. However, at the cabinet's meeting, neither mentions the irrigation of the Sinj field. Imagine if someone came from Israel and saw that the Sinj field was not irrigated, that the drought was in the middle of the lite, that there was no water, and we have the cleanest water, here, I have here in front of me, which is what we import the most, pork, fresher meat, cooled or frozen, right? GMO products. And domestic, pigmeat just disappears. We do not have the courage, as the Hungarians had, the Austrians said, to the last kilograms, our apples, our fruit and vegetables and our domestic products we will not import, which is the power that we all have to stand together and give you support to protect our domestic farmers, not to have the whole of Slavonia empty. We don't have that power, we, here, are students from Split, we don't have the strength, we declare an exclusive economic belt, and the Italians are the most fish hunting. And they sell it in the tourist season, in our restaurants, and to them additional values. We don't have the courage to protect peasants or fishermen. That law is in the proposal in the process. We have the government's view that it is coming on the agenda and, of course, they do not accept it, in order to court European officials, to make progress in the European, the hierarchy, so that they become council presidents. So there must be no ministers, Government, members of government, parliamentary representatives, Croatia must not be an unwanted woman for them to achieve their goals, in order to well market themselves personally in European, on the ranking list on some official duties. We have to protect the peasants, this law doesn't do it. This isn't the Agricultural Land Act, but we need to know, I've given the amendment, and since 2020, foreigners will be able to buy us land, agricultural land, and that will go away. That's what Hungary forbade, i.e. They had a referendum, not in Hungary's agricultural land sale, because food production is strategic production. This way our children, our grandfather, will work for foreign owners, for the Church. He's not gonna make it. We don't have this law answer. And we other things that we import, bread, pastries and cakes, means bakery products. We import baker's products, and Slavonia's cereal, numerous fields, a piece of Slavonia are unprocessed. So where's the logic? The logic is that all governments, they put money into bulky systems, which was supposed to go to the OPG, they put in Agrokor and other large companies, and they're not small farmers, and of course the small farmer left. And it's sad to see, when I go the way of Sinja, when I go through Lika, flat wheels, Skradin, nowhere to see the Dalmatian Zagora, there's no treasure, there's no cattle, there's no, because we're not competitive. Because if table grapes are imported from Serbia, if we are not ready and able by law, and I will give you an amendment, if we are not able to say by law, that 50% of the stores must have domestic products, so 70% if we have to, if there is a domestic producer on the market, that there is a market, then we simply do not protect, ladies and gentlemen, our people, and the people chose us, we are people's representatives. And that's why ministers have to come when the important laws are here and say that they are the undertakers of Croatian villages, and that they should put out the candle, if we don't change and give amendments, i.e. Now in his first reading, but I think he's the minister, this time he'll find the strength and protect the domestic producer, that he has a safe sale, secure. If necessary, we will raise our unanimous hand, I do not believe, if the sea of Hungarians, why can't the Croats and they are in the EU as we are. We're an equal community, apparently. It's supposed to be just an equal community, but what the Hungarians can do, the Croats can't. That's the problem. That's a huge problem. I gave here the Law on the Prohibition of Imports of GMOs and Production and Trade in the Republic of Croatia. The government says yes, this is a great proposal, but we don't have to accept it right now. That was the debate I made that proposal. I was attacked by various lobbies, of course, mostly imported ones. So we import, well, we have a clean ecologically preserved land, where we can produce a pig, I don't know, we can export. And we were brought here to extinct 2/3 of Croatia. Schools are empty, children's pay is not heard in maternity homes. Only at bus stations, parents pay for young people leaving, for what? We don't have the bravest decisions to protect Croatian peasants, farmers, and I just said no fishermen. We work in the interest of foreign political elites, import lobbys, and that's what we have to cut. We in this law must implement it, not eight laws that are bad. And do not allow foreigners until 2020, now that our peasants have moved out of Slavonia to be able to buy this agricultural land for several thousand euros of the entire estate. We can't let that happen. We have to be bold. And we have an example. We can't tell the European Commission you can't. If Hungary could, Croatia can, because Croatia must not, and most of all the leaders of the political stairways, come here to come to the European Council. We are not allowed to treat the peasant two-thirds of Croatia and we will simply have national uncertainty, strategically because we will not have people in the area what the state that is blood-stained will do to us, what everything we have through history, all battles if we are the greatest pests ourselves, if we have two-thirds of Croatia empty, if our children do not eat domestic products but parties that are poor quality. Once again, I expect you to be bold and that you will not be the one to put out a candle to Croatian agriculture and not put a broccoa in a coffin and be a graver of Croatian agriculture, but we all have to change things together and support you in what I said, protecting domestic farmers to grams, until the last kilo is sold, a Croatian agricultural product, we must protect Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96078	Thank you for your exposure. We have six replicas. First colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96079	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, there will probably be a reply from the minister and here from the ruling majority that we are in the EU, that there is no ban on importing certain products, means that this is a free market which is true. But on the other hand, there are mechanisms with which certain things can be done. We had a minister who boasted that he would stop importing, made one rule and then got a slap from the EU prime minister that he couldn't do it. Because some of the Minister's moves are not announced, some things are being done. So maybe they don't know who can stop us. There are also mechanisms that can be used but we used these mechanisms to rightly match import lobbys, for example. exchange rate differences. So we have the recognition of Governor Rohatinski who personally admitted to me that while he was Governor Ivica Todorovic, Zdravko Maric, Milan Kujundzic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96080	.../Intruder Doncic: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96081	...and Tomislav Karamarko persuaded political engagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96082	.../Intruder Doncic: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96083	Then we can imagine how Ivica Todoric persuaded him...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96084	...../Invader Doncic: colleague, colleague./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96085	... means that it creates exchange rates to suit the import lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96086	.../Intruder Doncic: Mr. Grmoja time, response to replica./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96087	This is important, Vice President, to say, let me finish. Thank you. [[Invader Doncic: Well or 16, please, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96088	Here's an answer to the replica. Don't overdo it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96089	Thank you very much. Yes, the minister went and announced in public that he would change the rules and protect domestic production. It was stopped by the prime minister. Give the ministers that proposal, I'll accept it by hand if you protect domestic production and all parliamentary representatives. So don't be afraid, one man can't, because of his interest, be the head of the EU or the Council or what to step on the entire Croatian people. Croatia must not be anyone's unwanted wife to achieve her goal. We can't let that happen. We must protect the Croatian farmers. And if you have that rulebook, put it in the procedure, I promise you that 90% of the MPs, 100, will support the domestic manufacturer. We've had enough listeners and European officials, they've polluted everything that's allowed them to step on. They're vermin. First of all, they must protect the domestic farmer, the domestic producer and everything else is primary And that can change. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]] If Hungary can, Croatia can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96090	Thank you, please stick to the time for discussion. Replica number 2 Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, you're right when you talk about one thing, which is that we don't have a strategy, we don't have a vision, we don't have a direction in which we develop agriculture. So this law is just a drop in the sea, a fig leaf, whatever you want. There are good things in it, of course, which are technical, let's say compliance with the OPG Act. But until we know which direction we're developing our agriculture, no law will help us. So you were talking about pigmeat, I come from Slavonia where we have a long tradition of pigmeat, but we can't compete with one Danish who spent 20 years and more of her farming directing and investing in pigmeat production. We must find our niche. Are these dried-meat products, cool, prosciutto, ham, is that something else, is that eco-production? Maybe it is. But then by that, we need to make laws, not make laws according to what might be appropriate to the current minister or the current day, and what we're going to do tomorrow, no one knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96092	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Answer to the replica of my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96093	We have a legal opportunity to protect our products and we have proposed it and in this tax reform we have made our proposal. So we have the possibility of Dalmatian prosciutto and Slavonic tower and everything produced in Croatia. And the paisan cheese where they now lay waste and where sheep feed. We've simply been brought in this way, in this way, in this manner, in this manner, in a courtship that we don't protect a domestic producer all under the path of the market. That we are for the market, but if Hungary can in the European Union protect its farmer and domestic production of Austrians until the last apple, until its apple is sold there is no imports. We need to find mechanisms in the law to protect our farmer and manufacturer. And that is possible if we have the will, if we have the strength, if it is not for someone else's step to be a European official and to join the EU import lobbyes, then we are in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96094	Thanks, buddy Bull. Replica No. Three, colleague Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96095	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Bull, you're here in the House one of the greatest critics, it must be admitted, but in this case I really must say that I agree with almost everything you've said. And actually, things are very, I'd say, simple and I'll try to simplify them. Here, the law often mentions the CAP or the common agricultural policy, and I will only say briefly what this common agricultural policy, who founded it, says the common agricultural policy has created 6 EU founding countries in 1962, and this is the longest-ever EU policy. The aim is to provide safe food to EU citizens at affordable prices, ensure an adequate standard of living for farmers and preserve natural resources and respect for the environment. 60 years ago, something like that was written, I would say, and today it's current and we could learn from it, actually, things are very simple and we're complicating them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96096	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96097	It's all simple, so everything's simple, there's no big philosophy. In us are the political elites that are academically educated, which experts have brought into this position because they depended on these lobbies because simply no one could advance to simplify things once. To say a simple thing in the language of the people, and to turn it into a law, not to rescind laws that don't apply at all, because this law is prescribed, 8 laws that have been passed, can free them, damage paper, damage to the administration that has done so many laws because we already have these laws, which are bad because they are in a state of agriculture. They put 8 laws in this proposal, so it's a disastrous law, so we discussed them here, in terms of the OPGs, in terms of everything, subsidies. So they're, now the ministry has spent money, the administration to make this law, to do the PR because we passed the Agriculture Act and basically he's nothing, he's zero, he's destroyed the Croatian peasants. These laws are the undertakers of Croatian villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96098	Thank you. Thanks, buddy Bull. Replica 4, Sagar Tomislav, colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96099	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, therefore, if you come to Slavonia, you can see that many farmers have envious agricultural mechanisms which they managed to get through the return of capital investments to it. However, safety does not give the farmer machinery, safety gives the farmer agricultural land. You rightly warn that there is a danger for many to be left without agricultural land, especially if it is possible for foreigners to buy, but there is one much more serious thing, and that is the return of land to former dignitaries, Counts and their successors, which are a little spoken of in public at this point in Slavonia, at this point, a certain amount of forest, agricultural land is returned to be kept silent, it is very powerful families, it is talked about not tens of thousands but hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land that will be returned to the heirs of these families, and that is one of the serious problems that farmers will face in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96100	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96101	Thank you very much. Comrade Zhagar, you have warned of a problem waiting for us, a matter that is under way, but the government and the ministry are the ones who have to give us parliamentary representatives, you have now made a proposal and you have pointed out, translated into one law and not 8 laws that are bad and do not solve these problems. So we're facing the problem that the laws are bad, that we're too sick and then we've got these 8 laws, and then those 8 laws are prescribed by one law, in fact there's absolutely nothing new here, we don't have solutions, we don't have the implementing documents about how to solve the Croatian village, but the simple lipo is to say those problems that you're talking about and hereditary, so it's in agriculture, so the Gorski kotar, so in all the spheres, in the fisheries, we all have been given as a palm, but the interesting lobbys and vermin within the import lobbys have destroyed Croatian peasants, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, forestrs, they've destroyed everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96102	Thank you very much. Replica number 5, colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, in a lot of things we agree on, protecting domestic production, yes, in all ways but populism. Foreign countries, you tell it all the time, foreign countries can't buy, we know it's regulated by law, they can buy companies and it's based on reciprocity, and so can we. When you talk about the GMO law, you kept talking about importing to ban the import of GMO soybeans. I am for it, we can ban the import of GMOs but how will you ban the import of meat, animals fed by that GMO strain in Austria, Hungary, neighbouring countries because the number of soy... And then they drive him away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, you said you needed to cut the VAT to the Dalmatian prosciutto. I am extremely against it because the Dalmatian prosciutto has only Dalmatian and Croatian air, everything else is import. If they allowed VAT reduction to frozen meat, then they would kill Croatian production to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96104	Replication response, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96105	Everything you said, no matter what you told me I was a populist, if you need to be a populist, I agree with you. We import a billion kunas a year of pork that feeds on soy juice that is a GMO product. And of course that's how we destroy domestic producers, it's much cheaper production, a lot more being meat because simply GMOs it encourages and that unhealthy food, we have this huge problem. And I sign that. And I sign that, it's a huge problem that on our markets we buy meat, pork we import, necks I don't know how much it comes, 7 kunas in stores. So we eat bad, harmful food, and it's seen by the results of increasing disease, tumors, everything, simply more, that's reasons, bad food. I agree with you, but the fact is that we have to protect the domestic farmer. If Hungarians can, you say we are not the same, we will be selling land to foreigners from 2020 and you can't buy in Hungary and Hungary will be able to buy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96106	Thank you. Last line, here's your colleague Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96107	Dear Representative Bulj, Mr. Vice President and representatives of the ministry. You often talk about agriculture in this debate and sometimes mention the economic belt, declaration or not the declaration of the economic belt. I don't understand what you mean by an exclusive economic belt or a protected ecological fishing belt? We know Croatia has internal seas, it has its own territorial seas, and further international waters are, according to agreement and laws in international waters, coming EU countries with their fishermen and having the right to do so. So international waters are not controversial but it is controversial that they enter our territorial seas and you probably have the information and you know that the basis of the non-proclaimed economic belt is to fish out 350-400 million...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96108	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96109	Thank you very much. Croatia has brought, meaning this Parliament is also a protected ecological fishing belt. It's part of your exclusive economic belt, it's the same for you to buy a car without a swamp, without two cars, it was brought here in Croatia, exclusively because of the fact that you want to touch it, i.e. to allow the sea to benefit us whoever it will, means that in our territorial waters, because it is the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia as well as the mainland, we have means of water and land and we have not brought it in full application. So we didn't bring it in so that it could, except for the economic belt, but parts of how the EU was passing by to get to Italy, to their fishermen so that they could. But they do what they want, they defend by sea, they hunt fish where it's not protected, where it's protected, where the fish move, they do whatever they want, and our fishermen aren't allowed. So we simply did not protect our territorial territory and these are territorial waters and we have this right by Council, and the Council of Europe is calling us and the UN Convention... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96110	Thanks, buddy Bull. We're continuing an individual debate. Next report from colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96111	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. The minister's out a little bit, but I'd like to ask my associates to give him a message, and I'd like to congratulate him first on the good results in the cro electro, researching agency 2x1 communication, Mr. Srecko Bosak associated with her, former HDZ candidate in XII. Electoral Unit, close associate of Tomislav Karamark. According to the agency, Mr Tolusic is Croatia's most popular minister. It should not be forgotten that the director of the agency Mr. Cartello is a member of the Representatives' Club for Croatia in the City Assembly of Zagreb to see a small area that recognises the quality of Mr. Tolusic and his excellent rating. So, according to the rating of the agency, which is strongly linked to Karamark and Mr Hasanbegovic, Mr Tolusic is the most popular minister in the Croatian government. It is a topic of the popularity of Mr. Minister and recognition of the quality of his work, Mr. Djakic. Furthermore, after we have established who recognizes the work of Mr. Minister, I would like to tell you a few things, the figures are inexorable and we need to be aware that Croatian agriculture does not record any successes but goes in the opposite direction, it can be seen by some comparisons, it should not be too wise and comparison that Croatian agriculture had a value of 32 billion kuna in the 1990s compared to 2017 when it is around 15 billion kuna. It says that in the last 28 years, Croatian agriculture has lost more than half the value, or production it had at the time. The synonym for our agriculture is unfortunately not a success, it is not a quality except in certain parts, it is not a new job but exactly the opposite, the poverty, the emigration of our people, the loss and the less and less people who deal with agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. And then the man wonders how it's even possible to talk about certain successes, how it's even possible to say what the minister says is never a better situation in the Republic of Croatia. Because I was in Gudovac in Bjelovar the other day at a fair where, in the opening part, the minister at the opening of the fair talked about how it is never better in Croatian agriculture, how it is never easier to obtain funds, encourages loans. And I almost fell off the chair when I listened to it because I really don't know if we think in the same country when we see people leaving, when we see that agricultural production is smaller and smaller from year to year. There may be more incentive, there may be more tractors buying on these incentives but this does not mean that more people live on agriculture and that Croatia has more than agriculture. If there's anyone here, you're welcome to deny me. I see your hands are down and your eyes are on the floor. Yes, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately the ladies and gentlemen of today's situation in Croatian agriculture. So the money is in disposition, but people still don't recognize it, they don't find a way to live from it, that the economy is developing and that Croatia has a better agricultural quality. Just look at the percentage of the growth of the agricultural sector in us, for example, and in Germany that is developed, which has one higher level of agriculture, where more people make a lot more money than that. So in our past two years, the rate has been negative, so growth is always between 0 and 1% minutes, while in Germany in 2016, for example, there is a growth of over 0.31% in agriculture. So how is it possible in Germany and in Croatia it is not possible? Or, for example, when we look at the percentage of the rural population, in Germany we also have some positive trends, or people go back to the country and work in the country and in Croatia in 2015, in 2016 over 3% of people left the village and left the village. Most often, as colleagues from other opposition clubs have said, the road to Ireland or some other countries where people can do their job and feel useful and eventually contribute something to themselves and, unfortunately, to societies that live and that is no longer Croatia, but Ireland, Germany or some other country. And then the question arises how is that, never again, never again encouraging, never more accessible loans, and our people don't use it, which is why, where is the problem, what is it about? Which is why the minister and the ministry fail to create this synergy for people to start working in agriculture and eventually for Croatia to have something. Clearly, we cannot accept the ministry where the main intensity is, that the minister with certain measures is being promoted, whether it's a fight against some foreign chains or foreign products in our chains and that we make the biggest play out of it. And on the other hand, in criminal terms, in my opinion, the criminal situation around Agrokor, we leave to the foreigners an enormous amount of our country. Nobody said anything about that here. So why are we kicking 100,000 acres of our country, through Agrokor, in the end they ended up in foreign hands. And what kind of message is this to our producers and our people in the Republic of Croatia, especially when we know hundreds and hundreds of our entrepreneurs and farmers who have lost their right to the country, to process the country, and that country has been given to others, in this case we see foreign owners, or those who may never have dealt with the country. And when you look at this, this pretty thick document, a fat law that let's put it that way, says 100 and I don't know 20 30 pages. And then you look at the opening arguments and what and the consequences of this law. And then you have three tiny passports that don't say anything. They do not say that agriculture in Croatia will experience a certain takeoff, that we will employ people, that our people, our godmothers, will be easier to do work, that they will have more accessible products for Croatian citizens, that there will be a certain synergy between agriculture and tourism, but in general phrases in three paragraphs, in three sentences explains the quality of this law, which is on 120 pages. And then, basically, you come to a simple conclusion, so obviously the government of this country, our country, Croatia, is not in the focus of agriculture, that all of these stories about Slavonia, about how we're going to revitalise one region, which has lost most to the Homeland War, and unfortunately, we're not going to have a concrete result of that and we're not going to do anything. Of the new tractors, perhaps the most beneficial will be the importers, because these tractors will ultimately not process as many countries as they would have worked if they were bought by German or Austrian farmers, because simply, this country our farmers will not have. And as much as we're discussing here, it's obvious that this debate is just for discussion, and it's not about helping our farmers specifically, and that they're doing something for themselves, their country, and of course, most of all, for those who could possibly hire and who would then not move to Ireland, Germany or Austria. And that's the biggest tragedy. So our government doesn't do anything about it, it lays its shoulders, looks at the floor in a situation where hundreds of thousands of people leave Croatia every day, as if it's in their interest to remain only those who got caught. It is as if it were in the interest of the HDZ government to remain only those directly under their control and under their influence, in order to follow our country as easily as possible and in order to control the situation more easily. All those who work with their hands should be as difficult for them as possible, for all those who are on the state's tits, HDZ will allow them to be calm, calm, only if they vote for them. It is one wing that can move slowly to the situation that is happening in Croatian agriculture. And that's what's not good. We look at it every day, and unfortunately we're going to look at it that way, because with this law, it's not going to change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96112	We have two replicas on your display, colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, you're right when you say that investments in agriculture are dying and agricultural production is dying, as they are disproportionate. In fact, that's all, if you ask me, the cause of lack of vision, of strategic thinking, unfortunately, not only of this minister, but of all those who were before him, but above all, I think of HDZ ministers. Because if you take the curve, this is your curve, as much as you invest in agriculture, it means since '89. Nothing then you have a sudden rise up, but this is agricultural production from up to down. So it turns out the more we invest, the less we produce. It tells you that something very wrong in the system, very wrong in the system, and that's exactly what I'm talking about is lack of vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96114	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96115	Thank you very much. We've invested more than 40 billion kn in agriculture in the last 20 years. So that's another synonym for HDZ's failure is one shipbuilding, which we now see escalating again, and the other is agriculture. Hundreds of billions have spilled into private pockets, unfortunately, without any concrete effect, on the economic sector and the economic branch it refers to. That's unfortunately, and now you have to be honest and admit, we haven't done it, unfortunately we haven't been able to lift those branches, especially agriculture, and shipbuilding, when you haven't dealt with it in two years since you came to power, now even though you're in a shipyard every day, you won't do anything. The minister can camp there and sleep, but eventually that happiness will not be given that the problem has been systematically ignored for 2 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96116	Here you go, fellow Sabina Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, you inspired me, in fact, by your opening presentation when you mentioned the very high rating of the Minister of Agriculture in the research of certain agencies that question public opinion. I must admit that it would be better if his rating were so high among Croatian farmers and peasants, unfortunately he is not, he is vice-proportional than the perception of the Minister of Agriculture in the eyes of some obscenity agencies whose owners later to pump and plant the HDZ rating and individual ministers who are probably in grace, in return get a seat on the HDZ list. But that's no wonder, because the same thing the Ministry of Agriculture, there, in a very short time to the principal's place, is making progress, how? By donating the HDZ campaign. HDZ donor under regular number 191 is a man who became head of the agriculture ministry. So the Ministry of Agriculture serves not the Croatian peasant and farmer but the interests of HDZ paying Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96118	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96119	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, so I have to mention it because I see that some HDZ colleagues are surprised why the agency close to Tomislav Karamark and where the party director Mr Hasanbegovic is so well recognised by the quality of Minister Tolusic. So between all the HDZs in the government, they just recognized his quality. So I see d here, imagine Mr. Shuker, sir perhaps, a gentleman who is quite close to Mr. Tolusic, knows probably the reasons but that's interesting, means on that side to see who recognizes who and what circles recognize who, so that's something here, one new in Croatian politics, especially in HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96120	Thank you. We continue with individual debates. Next, a colleague, Djakic, checked in, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. So here's the agricultural policy, with foreign and security policy, is the common policy of EU member states. In fact, the EU's common agricultural policy has three priorities. Ensure sustainable food production, ensure sustainable management of nature and natural resources and promote a balanced development of all rural areas in the EU, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Agriculture that regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy and provides a framework for the implementation of measures. The law should ensure continued implementation of a set of EU regulations enabling, improving, improving the provision of support to extremely sensitive sectors that are not encouraged in the EU and other state support measures. The common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, the quality system or the registration and protection of the name of agricultural and food products bearing the designation of origin, the geographical indication and the designation of traditional speciality guaranteed. The issue put on the market of natural mineral and natural spring waters and the procedure for placing on the market the Republic of Croatia natural mineral and natural spring waters which are drawn from the fabric of third countries, etc. According to Article 7 of this proposal, the objectives of the agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia are to raise the level of competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector, to implement the financing of the agricultural sector, to improve the market mechanisms for the sale of food products and to establish an effective organisation of the control system in the area of agricultural production, food safety and food quality. Agriculture is defined as a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia's economy, and so it says in this law. All the pressures we have heard from various clubs and individuals so far certainly have nothing to do with this law as well as the situation of Minister Tolusic's ratings, which neither the agency needs nor the agency, but it is farmers who personally write and praise it and welcome it in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, who are clearly talking about him and his team of people working in the interest of Croatian agriculture. All the other unsuspecting grades that come from different clubs are actually a flat-rate assessment that has nothing to do with reason or reality. Among the agricultural policy measures referred to in Chapter 2, rural development measures are most interesting. According to Article 18 of this proposal, rural development measures aim at increasing economic efficiency, improving the competitiveness of production and processing of agricultural and food products, environmentally acceptable and energy-efficient agricultural activity, adaptable to climate change, improving the quality of life, preserving population and improving economic activities in rural areas, respecting the principle of conservation and improvement of the environment, landscape and biodiversity. These measures shall be implemented through their rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia and the national support programme. The need to strengthen the activity and engagement of both state and agricultural producers in terms of adapting agricultural activity to climate change in terms of encouraging farmers to the insurance of property, crops, permanent plantations, agricultural areas and machinery, economic facilities and livestock funds, all that is necessary for their economic efficiency. In recent years we have witnessed the developmental power of nature and enormous material damage after natural disasters. Unfortunately, natural disasters are becoming increasingly common and the recovery of damage is financially demanding. The objectives aimed at rural development measures will not be achieved unless the expectations of damages from natural disasters are maintained are resolved by means of only the state budget or local and regional budgets. Unless the agricultural holding is secured, there is no guarantee that it will be maintained after suffering damage from adverse weather conditions, fights, frosts, droughts, floods, etc. Therefore, the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, as well as national support programmes, should continue to contain measures to enable and facilitate and ensure the availability of insurance and co-financing policies for agricultural producers and related activities. According to information published on the paying agency's pages, it is clear that the information campaign itself is sufficient to increase the number of farmers who decide to secure their activity. Namely, following an information campaign on the needs of farmers and amending the Regulation implementing measures 17 of the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, the growth of the insurance premium and the number of contracted insurance for the second quarter of 2018 is above all expectations. According to the Croatian Insurance Office, crop premiums and crops are growing by 51.44% compared to the same period last year. 121 million, 553 thousand and 18 kuna compared to 80 million 266 thousand 527 kuna in 2017. Even higher growth records the number of insurance contracts. 16191 insurance was agreed more than in 2017, which is a growth of as much as 87.40%. 34717 insurance against 18526 in 2017 The animal insurance premium also records growth of 25.01%. 81 million 832 thousand 755 kuna compared to 65 million 461 400 kuna in 2017. The number of contracted animal insurance is growing 18.36%. 896 insurance against 757 from 2017. It should be recalled that in order to increase the interest of farmers in insurance and by increasing the number of contracted insurance policies, the user no longer needs to pay a full premium of insurance but pays 30% of the insurance premium, while 70% of the paying agency premium. After administrative processing, he pays directly to the insurance company on behalf of the farmer. The loss threshold of agricultural production has been reduced from 30% to 20%, so 10%. Support intensity increased from 65% of the insurance premium to 70%. The request for payment of support can be submitted to farmers throughout the year. Another issue of particular interest is the issue of food donation. This Proposal for a Law regulates this issue to Articles 67, 68 and 69, and is in fact the most important provision. 69th, which regulates that detailed provisions on food donations are prescribed by the Minister. The Republic of Croatia has only just started with a food donation practice and this short-term experience has shown many shortcomings. Despite VAT cuts on donated food, social self-services are empty, almost daily reported by the media. Donors claim that the biggest problem is the cost of transport, the supply of food to social self-services, and a number of regulations that are contradictory. Remember, the EC adopted EU food donation guidelines last October. These guidelines cite the opportunities of a food donation organisation that is in line with EU rules on the possibility of fiscal promotion of donated food, and provide a European Food Aid Fund for the most needed and donated food. Food distributed by partner organisations can be purchased through funds, but can also be donated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96122	Thank you. We have, there will be opportunities in replicas... We have a few replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's the first respected representative of Allen Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96123	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Djakic, first you said we're taking a rain check. Well, I'd like you to answer that, if we're doing a flat rate, what you've said, says agricultural production aims to encourage the development of all rural parts of the Republic. So do you really believe that it encourages the development of all rural parts of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that our villages are disappearing, our children are leaving, and it's all a trend that a real blind man sees. Here, give me a concrete answer. And secondly, you said, she's our strategic branch. In the Republic of Croatia, she's a strategic branch. So if it's a strategic branch, it should probably be a strategy. Do you know that we have a strategy in the Republic of Croatia or maybe I don't know? Here, just answer those two questions for me. If it's strategic, do we have a strategy and if it's so developed for rural areas, why are we running out of villages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96124	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, you've said a lot of things by listening to me. You tie up certain words, but you don't know much. You don't know that really our village is entrenched by the measures brought by this Ministry and the Minister, that those who have developed, obtained, used measures and progress, rounded up land and processed it qualityfully and gained good support in this as well as in the machinery and in quality. As far as your evictions are concerned. Well, it started for your time because you didn't have any measures, you didn't have the safety of farmers, the protests marked your era of governance in this sector, and I can only say that you who don't understand that there is a rural development strategy, and then there's another, advice for Slavonia, which often works to fertilize our village and stop emigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96126	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96127	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Djakic, I don't think you should tell someone that they don't understand because you've had a hard time understanding what you've read today, what they've written to you, and that they've written you it's hard to say the figures they wrote to you in there and you don't even understand the matter they wrote to you. The only thing you've done out of your head is compliment the minister. I do not need a minister to praise or to be ashamed of, but I am talking about the work of the Ministry and this Law which is at stake here, and the minister will be tried today-to-morrow or the government or the elections or anyone else. But I don't know who made it as far as you say because those with the HDZ membership card, or do you mean everything? Many have failed, many have gone to Ireland, Germany, anywhere. They shut down the farms from the operational program. If you do, tell me, do you believe that agriculture in the Republic of Croatia has progressed? Or did she go back? Well, you're from the farm area, so we should know. I think you're clear that we're back in all segments of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96128	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Leonard, I've read so you understand me. What you don't understand, it turned out when you were secretary of state that you didn't have anything to do with your minister or that SDP government to improve agriculture. You perverted the Law on Agricultural Land, you gave it great, you made it possible for you and Todorovic and others to be the only ones to rent land. You made the law out of Todoric's kitchen because you didn't know, we intercepted it, there was an e-mail that came from her assistant, from her husband to her what the law should look like. You were unable to write any law that would benefit Croatian farmers. That's what they told you clearly. And the results, they're measurable, the figures are irrefutable. The growth of agricultural production has just begun and he's going his own way and you can't stop him, neither you nor your stupidity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96130	Thank you very much. A colleague named Lenart has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96131	Dear Vice President, Art. 238th Insulting fellow Djakic. He says you wrote it, you did it, you're a bad law on agricultural land. Well, fellow Djakic, you shared state land. Since 27 years of Croatia, the HDZ has been in power for 20 years. Just because HSS was in the coalition with you doesn't mean he could have determined politics. ... Well, we had ministers, too, yes. [[You can't hear it.]] And you, your colleague Shuker, were Minister of the Government of Eve Sanader and you pretend to know nothing. ... Dear gentlemen. [[You can't hear it.]] And you're telling us we don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96132	Okay, thank you very much. I estimate that, of course, no injured Rules of Procedure. Let's just take it easy. The Rules of Procedure were not injured because there were no insults, and the qualifications given to each other by parliamentary representatives, that's another matter. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96133	Thank you very much. Dear Djakic, I am pleased that you have touched one topic that would probably not have gone undetected if you hadn't mentioned it, which is the process of ensuring agricultural crops. The project, which was long ago in 2003, came from a city in Zagreb County, but I am sorry that the insurance companies did not show interest and I am sorry that units of local self-government do not show greater interest in co-financing with the agency because it is the only way to make up for the great pain of our peasants at the time when the storm comes and in half an hour clean up everything they have been torturing all year. And it's just one of the models and forms of cocoa that can be helped by peasants. And as for these discussions, at least it would be good for someone to say, listen, this in law is not good, I would do it in that way and that way. Then we could pollemize, but like this, it's hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96134	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96135	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have seen well that I have pointed out precisely in percentages and financial resources, as well as the number of users that have advanced the insurance of agricultural crops as well as the property of farmers. Similarly, this is a good proposal to encourage local self-government units, as well as regional self-government, so that what they get from renting land is invested in insurance and saved as much as possible because we ourselves have seen that in the commission's work, the damage assessment commission may provide 1-2% of the return when damage occurs and up to not enough and insurance of this kind is certainly the best solution that will certainly protect this production under the clear sky in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96136	Thank you very much. Now, for a moment, as usual, we'll end the individual debate, and then we'll move on to a position on behalf of the club. We will now return to individual debates, so now the word will be given to the respected representative Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96138	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad we have the Agriculture Act in the House today, which we can discuss, discuss. The Agriculture Act, as a roof law for a branch of agriculture aimed at making it clearer and more qualitative to set the objectives and measures of agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia and to bring it into line with the common agricultural policy. This law, which we are discussing today, can also be seen through a financial prism, which allows about 7 billion kn per year, agricultural separation through rural development, direct payments and measures of market organisation, this law includes the adoption of national, strategic and... documents with established national objectives, priorities, measures and mechanisms of action in the programming period from 2014 to 2020. Given that the ministry has an obligation to cooperate with public services and scientific institutions, I would now set a current example here from Osijek, in which other representatives have touched little. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it is about the University of Osijek, or the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences of Osijek, which precedes it is an agricultural college, which so far has been perceived exclusively to agriculture, and today records a significant number. This drastic reduction in the number of students is an obvious example of society's relationship with agriculture, and I think it's a perfect time to make big turns now so that agronomials are recognised and work for which they were educated, and that agronomia as an interest in calling and scientific discipline would make them attractive and competitive for students. I believe that by strengthening that agricultural chambers, weaving and setting up an agronomic chamber can create preconditions for the protection of our agronomists through certain powers, i.e. to regulate one system by which each agricultural economy should have a certain number of employees. agronomia. I am aware that it is difficult to impose something on someone today, but I am also of the opinion that by encouraging synergies between educational institutions and producers themselves, we can through a greater number of qualified agronoms within these agricultural economies, provide farmers with greater yields, such as higher profits and revenues. It is also important to define the measures and guidelines of our agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020 and to improve the regulation of the issue of the publication of annual reports on the state of agriculture in the previous calendar year. The green report, which gives us a clear insight on the prices and state of the quantities of certain agricultural food products and certain agricultural imputables at the annual level. Of course, this image gives us a clearer picture of the situation in our agriculture, but it can also be an incentive for better preparation, for a future agricultural period, i.e., a common agricultural policy from 2021-2027 so that our agricultural policy is resistant to future challenges, that our agricultural policy leads to sustainable development of agriculture and is a guarantee of the growth and sustainability of Croatian villages. It would also refer to fellow MPs who touched on the development strategies for agricultural production. I also believe that the time has finally matured to really complete a long-term strategy for the development of agricultural production that would certainly be an incentive and conservation for our farmers, especially those young people, those who are just entering agriculture and who are essentially crying for a systematic approach to agriculture and a clear defined direction and our agriculture. And I believe that we are also on this path with this law and that one of the future projects that you as a ministry will implement is this long-term strategy for the development of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96139	Thank you very much. We've got one replica, the esteemed attorney Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96140	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you have touched on two of the topics that I have left, this is a strategy many have spoken about and of course it has long since matured time to bring such an important document, because you and I are coming from the end of Slavonia, where indeed agriculture has been and has always been the first branch people have ever dealt with. We see that she's in decline, and this other fact that you've brought out is a minor no. Students, at the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, which is certainly a bad picture, we should do everything and speed up the adoption of this strategy. But I ask myself once again here, what about the advisory service, did it justify its existence, or, which is, with all that, which is agricultural, with many agricultural agencies, or what is with the agricultural chamber, did they justify their existence, when this is our condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96141	Thank you for the response of the esteemed MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96142	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, as to the advisory service, whether she justified her existence, perhaps the Secretary of State will say so in his future presentations, but def. I agree with you that the strategy is one basic segment from which everything should go, that students, young, educated agronomies, that other segment of our policies you will know and implement. And as far as the chamber itself is concerned, here we have recently had the Agricultural Chamber Act here and I think that the ministry in this respect will make a really significant effort not to really become a roof association of all farmers here in the Republic of Croatia, and as we have heard in the plan is the establishment of an Agronomic chamber that should fill that space alongside the agricultural chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96143	Thank you. The individual debate will now be presented by the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome here the present representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no minister here. I heard he went to a contract. It seems that these self-promotions are important about the signing of the contract, of course they are, but it is even more important to hear here the thinking of parliamentary representatives about where agricultural policy is going, what is the position of farmers, villages, or rural areas. We all know that slogan well known from field to table. And it's designed just as one good plan, the concept that what is produced in Croatian fields comes to our homes on our tables. And dear citizens that slogan from field to table because of poor agricultural policy he changed into a slogan that reads from Poland to the table. What does that mean? Well, it means that we are more and more than just fruit, vegetables, meat products, dairy imports from Poland and so are other countries. It doesn't take much to explain and convince that agricultural policy, or that it broke down, we don't even have a strategy to develop agriculture. And what's interesting to me today is what members of the ruling coalition say, so people say one thing here at the pay phone, and then they say in the end we still support the bill. Here you are, my fellow citizens, you see that with this political system, the schedule of power in the House is that all of you, all of us, are going to be more difficult to live and suffer. But let's talk numbers here and some suggestions. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens. In its agricultural policy, Croatia has committed to financing agriculture and rural development as much as it can finance, as it receives from the EU. So let's see what it looks like. From 2014 to 2017, the EU has totaled around 8.2 billion kuna in 4 years. Croatia should also pay 8.2 billion kuna from our budget. However, in 4 years, it paid 4.7 billion kuna, which means that Croatia did not pay out 3.5 billion kuna to our farmers. So about nine hundred million kunas a year. And do you gentlemen know what a million kunas don't pay off to people who live on agriculture? What does 100 million and let alone 900 million each year mean? So that's why our agricultural producers are freaked out, left hanging. They're interested in two key things, who will, as they sell them, buy what they produce. And secondly, how to bridge the lack of financial resources from sowing to sales. Based on this information, you haven't paid about 3.5 billion kuna in 4 years that you were obliged to pay off, so you can't draw a second conclusion but that you are just asphyxiating the development of agriculture and that you are our farmers whose factory is the one that is under the clear open sky, living from time and from the sky, that you simply left them in a situation that they can't be financed. There's no policy, there's no policy, there's no policy, instead of agricultural policy, they've taken over the buyers, the shoppers, the importers, the smugglers, and who knows who else. Party Change Croatia will really put agriculture in its place of strategic activity. In a programming sense, we really are the leaders of the opposition in a programming sense. I hope that we'll be numbered soon. It is high time that you from the Ministry of Agriculture stopped confusing people around, waving billions of dollars signed as you do in the framework of the action, as it is called the Council for Slavonia. Well, you've so many billions sown on Slavonic paper fields that people just can't figure out how much it is. Don't shine papers and contracts, shine money. Give the people who produce what belongs to them. And what's most important here to say why we called for a debate? In the bill of law, you have avoided exactly what I have cited to you as information that you cannot avoid. That's right. You denied farmers in 4 years 3.5 billion kuna. And what did you write in the bill now? That the ministry and the minister can determine how much they will pay. So it doesn't matter how much the EU has paid, but you, the Ministry of Agriculture, will determine how much it should be. You must put the proposal, so we will bring the amendment, this is the first reading that has to write as much as the EU has paid, must be paid by the Republic of Croatia. Do I have any other information? I do. Here, last year, the Agricultural Payments Agency, for agriculture and rural development, was to pay $1.83 billion for this purpose. In total, around 1.4 billion kunas were paid. So, please, about 430 million kuna is not simply paid to farmers. And you know where that money ended up? He's back in the state budget. So, my people, what are we talking about? Why don't you talk about it? Why didn't you arrange these projects? Why didn't you pay people off? And they suffer and they suffer for it. So the thing is very simple, one thing is thought, another is speaking, and the third is working. And when you do that, you confuse everyone and it's no wonder that people from the rural parts of Slavia, Baranja, like go abroad because we have a cheating state. And this can no longer work like this, I invite you dear citizens to punish all those who have treated agriculture this way in the elections in Croatia so far. Can we change that? Well, of course we can. I've given you information on what needs to be done here. You have denied these 3 and a half billion kunas to farmers to show that you can reduce the deficit of the state budget. Is that your policy of this government? Save on those who have always drawn this land, our people. It's not fair and we need it already definitely and we'll change it. By the way, I'll say the next one. What about agricultural land is the second point of my exposure. We know that at the beginning of this year we are out there somewhere at the 3rd month here passed the Agricultural Land Act, I voted and the Party change Croatia against because it's a bad law, that I'm not telling all the reasons now. However, 220 days have passed according to my reliable information from the Ministry of Agriculture, not a single grant contract for state agricultural land has been signed. In order for him to become operational, he needs to change 17 different rules locally. And you know how long that's gonna take? From an opportunity like that to the end of this government's term, and I have no doubt that a single grant agreement, i.e. on state agricultural land, will be signed. And to put it short, it's not the point of talking much. It is clear to us, we see that there is no policy here for the Croatian village, for Croatian agriculture, but against it. Therefore, the party Change Croatia aims to revive the village, i.e. agriculture, will revive the Croatian village, revive the village will revive rural development, increase demographic growth, and then everything will go differently. But one elemental thing it takes, only one thing, and that's respected citizens, only new people, and that's never going to be able to do that to those who have you so far, who you thought would do well, they'll never do it. It is high time we changed Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96145	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be her respected,... And if you'll excuse my colleague Hajdukovic, he has a replica first, and then he will have an individual discussion. Here's a replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96146	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lovrinović, you're a university professor and you like to read exact data. If you compare the country's investment in agriculture and agricultural output, or production, then you get this graph, so it's blue investment, and red is production. In other words, the more we invest, the less we produce. How can that be? You say they planted a sea of paper in Slavonia. They sown them and the sea of kunas, but nothing came of it, but an empty burnt earth. And I see exactly what you mentioned at the beginning of the lack of vision, the lack of strategy. So we don't know where we're going, we don't know what we're doing, the left doesn't know what our right hand is doing, what do we want to do with agriculture, what do we want, what are our strategic branches in agriculture? We don't know anything about that yet. And all these laws and regulations that we make, if we don't know where we're going, that's when a blind man takes a blind man. That's what it looks like to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96147	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96148	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, you have shown the correct chart, so the more investment growth is becoming less and less production. There's one law in physics about the indestructibility of matter. So these investments didn't disappear and failed, they just went in a programmed direction means in those hands and those people capillaryly according to the party's specified criteria I'm convinced that's how it is, where it shouldn't be. So all this stuff is saying that everything is really screaming for a change. This can't work anymore, stop the leaders or the leaders, don't deceive and lie to the Croatian peasants, he's already depraved enough and it's high time to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96149	Now the individual word will have a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I've been very critical so far in replicas, so I'd actually start with things in the law that I don't think there's a dispute. In fact, the law establishes 12 regulations of the European Union which did not exist in the current law, so we are introducing European acquis into our legislation. We're introducing this so-called. alimentarius code, therefore, a collection of international food standards. What is certainly to greet is to prevent waste from being produced from food. One of our colleagues used to say that we were actually still in the food donations that it had started recently in Croatia, but we believe that we are working more and more systematically to make it less of our citizens' scenes, unfortunately digging through containers, garbage cans to avoid the creation of waste in this way, but it would also help those who need help most. Also, the law defines the self-supply of the agricultural economy as a natural person and harmonizes with the Law on the CAP which we have recently adopted here. So these are some good things I see in the law. But this law is colleagues and colleagues, as the people say as holy guide. So it doesn't help or get away. And why is that? Basically, I can't agree with anything, but that this law will strengthen our agriculture, that it will help it develop, that it will point it in the direction we want it to go. And I have to do it again. Why won't they? Because I don't know where he's going. At the time, I was still a member of the Committee on Agriculture when the Minister told the entire Committee that the strategy for agriculture was done, that it was in the ministry, that it was written, that it was only a matter of time before it was presented to the public, given public consultation, commenting, etc. Since then, it's been a while since I disagree with you exactly I can't exactly put it in time frames, but surely a year today maybe more. Have we seen the strategy? Not yet. And that is what is the problem of Croatia in my opinion one of the main ones is not thinking strategically. So there were a lot of words about our products that can be competitive at European level, therefore from olive oil, from dried products such as cuisine, ham, ham, prosciutto, wine etc. However, until we know or want to know, or we haven't agreed where we really want to target production, I'm afraid we won't be competitive anywhere, and we colleagues and colleagues can't produce enough for our use either, but we'll stay in Croatia and we can't produce enough here. It means that everything that a Croatian farmer, a fisherman, a farmer, a cattleman can produce can be eaten in Croatia and will still be missing, and then we constantly rebel against imports. We cannot be competitive with one Denmark that specializes in pigmeat production, we cannot simply because for decades they channel their entire agricultural production to have as cheap and as high quality pork as possible. We can't compete with that unless we decide to be competitive with them, so we do it. But I don't see it. We can't go crazy. So we're part of a large European Union market and we can't produce a little wine, a little olive, a little pork, a little cheese. In the end, we make everything and we don't produce anything. And why is that? We are just coming to this reason why I said it, because we can eat everything and consume it in Croatia and it won't be enough yet. But what's happening to us? Our product is exported, and we import a product of much less quality and our citizens usually eat, say, tomatoes that are much less quality and are not organically produced, and they do not eat the product produced in Croatia that is exported. I'm giving you a plastic example now I can't speak correctly. But what my colleague Lovrinović said was actually ringing from Poland to the table, unfortunately that's what we came up with. How many visions do we miss you talking about the fact that at one point the government or the ministry pushed small livestock holdings up to 30 throats, 30 to 50 throats that we knew in advance would not be worth it if they didn't get together, if they didn't have mini milk shops behind them, etc. Why is that and who it suits, that's the second question now. But the fact is that we spent money, that we spent time, that investment in agriculture grew, and that agricultural production was constantly falling. But to return even more specifically to the Law with two remarks, and I will end it. In fact, I am puzzled by a provision in the law, the advisory service is therefore as far as the bill concerns an independent institution, while the recent government's decision was precisely to integrate it into the ministry. If that's not proof of how much we wander and how much we don't know what we're doing, then I don't know what it is. So, the same rulings that have decided to fit the advisory service into the ministry are now proposing a law exempting it from the ministry and making it an independent institution. So that's just enough proof of how much chaos there is in the system and in the system of one ministry. So I guess I don't know the minister doesn't talk to the rest of the government or what. I also think that it has already been mentioned in this law, by our second reading, it is certainly necessary to introduce a provision that the difference to 100% of the right of direct support currently paid by around 20% less until we reach a 100% amount from the European Union in 3 years so that from 100% of that amount must be compensated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is a small measure, a fire measure I would call it so but purely to allow our farmers not to be denied for three more years until they have a full amount from the European Union. Thus, in fact, our farmers are currently cut off and in an unequal position with other agricultural producers in the European Union who receive 100% of the support. So no one prevents the Republic of Croatia from doing this or the Ministry of Agriculture from providing additional funds to make our farmers reach 100% of that amount. So, including our farmers being so decapitated, they don't know where they're going, they're afraid of every new law I think this would be a little help. I had a chance to talk to successful cattlemen who were united in a small mini-milkmaker and made their cheese and when I asked them what they needed from the state, you know what they told me. They say, "Just please don't help us." Leave us alone. Let us do this, and that's all we ask of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96151	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96152	The Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Today, we have a law on agriculture in first reading, a law that determines a lot of things, but as it is said here, it should rely on the Strategy on the development of Croatian agriculture. But neither the law nor the strategy will surely solve all the problems of Croatian agriculture as so far have not solved all the normative acts that have existed so far. I cannot agree here with a good part of the opposition order speakers who showed the situation in agriculture completely catastrophic, listening to them on the side would have turned out that there is no agriculture in Croatia at all. Then we shouldn't even be passing the law. Which is far from true, and it's enough for us to look around and see that's not the case. That the situation in agriculture is ideal, it's not. It wasn't 27 years ago, but it wasn't as early as 47 or 37 or 5 years ago when the SDP managed the state or is now ideal, but it's certainly much better than it was a while ago. This law, which additionally introduces European legislation in Croatia and Croatian legislation, will certainly help us to work together according to some rules that someone has long invented. We are not the ones who, through our agriculture law, are going to create some kind of agriculture that will be beyond the rules that apply in the European Union. Finally, by joining the European Union ourselves, we have also adopted game rules, so to speak, which are prescribed in the European Union and which are worth many years and where agriculture in most European Union countries is solidly functioning, but in no country, and we have opportunities to follow through the media, it is not ideal. In France, farmers also pour milk on the streets, in Italy they rebel over something else, in Germany, etc., without talking about countries that are just like us newer members of the European Union. But we must also admit, and we have heard this here from speeches and distinguished representatives who are a little bit better at reading numbers and who allegedly have accurate data, even though I don't think they're quite right, about how much money we've withdrawn from the European Union, and how much we've invested in the European Union. I think that agriculture is currently withdrawing a lot of funds from the European Union, and in the next period I believe that there will be more. And these funds are channelled into Croatian agriculture, they reach the Croatian peasants who use them. Some use a better quality, some a little less quality. I might say one word about what happened in one past period, I don't know if it's still happening, but I appeal to both the Ministry and all the inspection services and all those who control how the incentives are used to give it a little more attention. Because one part of the incentive in my knowledge is the purpose of itself, i.e. behind these incentives is no production, and these incentives should serve precisely to make the Croatian peasant competitive on the European market. We've heard a lot of words here about how we should produce enough for ourselves, so that we should still export, but never import. I agree, we should import as little as possible. But we have joined the European open market. We can't close, and on the other hand we ask someone to buy our products, so it's out of their minds. Therefore, we must create a competitive farmer and a competitive agricultural product, which can then, in its own price, be bought in other European Union countries or outside the European Union, and that it will be affordable for the buyer on the Croatian market. We wanted to admit it all we like to buy Croatian product, but the vast majority of our citizens when they come to the store first watch the price for clear economic reasons is looking at the price. Whether these are less quality products or not, that would be spoken of, they have come to our market, they have passed some controls either in other European Union countries, either with us and they should be of quality to our products. Are they really? I can't say that, but no one else here at all can claim it. That could only be said by relevant institutions, laboratories that control the food that's coming, but as soon as it's on our shelves, it means they're meeting regulations. We had the opportunity to see that through their inspection services, the Ministry had repeatedly withdrawn certain products with shelves of trade and import but also domestic because they did not meet the declarations or contained some elements that should not have been in them and were harmful to human health. As for the general view of what Kryzanic was saying. I come from Koprivnica and Križevci County which has developed livestock production, before it was developed even more. Today it's on some lower branches, I think the incentive system itself should go in the direction of helping exactly livestock production. Because that's what we're getting some upgrade to this wartime production that is now profitable as it is already said here, especially if it's working on larger surfaces and most people have turned to pure warfare, and neglecting and livestock production, neglecting and a part of fruit growing, vegetables, because it requires more and more human work, more and more effort, and it's clearly much longer to trade capital if, for example, in livestock farming or whatever it means investments are today, and the real return comes only after a year or more while in warfare it's much faster. So the incentive system of my appeal is to find out that there is still a way to promote livestock farming more because that is how we multiply our agricultural product, we are opening more jobs, and in this way Croatia's agriculture would certainly go faster. But I say everything in the end regulates the market, without the market there is nothing, people see themselves as the fastest they can make and therefore commit themselves. So I believe this law will not solve this problem until the end. But I think it's correctly written and that by the second reading, it will be improved and that it will create a good prerequisite for us to create some frameworks in which our people could make agricultural production and live solidly from it. And today, part of it lives very solidly, and it finally says the number of new tractors on the roads that drive full trailers here at this time of corn and other agricultural products. So I say, once again, they are not exactly the catastrophic statements that we heard here today in the Croatian Parliament. Not everything is ideal either, but this Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are doing everything possible to ensure that our agricultural production and our farmer can operate in the conditions in which other farmers are operating in the European Union, and then the market and industriousness of the producer itself will determine that the price of its product is competitive. Mr. Hajdukovic doesn't have it now, he was talking about association. I agree with him, and I think there's still a lot of work to be done for farmers to join in having a product in greater quantities. This automatically reduces the price and then they are competitive and can place their products in large retail chains much easier than when they appear on their own and when they have fewer products. One more sentence and education. I think that the establishment or strengthening of the work of the Agronomic Chamber should contribute to the fact that the simple profession of agriculture is more involved in the development of Croatian agriculture, that it is much more present because it would increase both the quantity of goods produced and certainly need to be worked on. Because without the profession, without the educated agronomists who would be present in the larger OPGs and who could give advice to smaller peasants, there will be no progress in our agriculture. I therefore support absolutely this law, and I hope that soon the Croatian Agriculture Strategy will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96153	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Felak, you said that this Agriculture Act has passed on the good rules of conduct that are present in the articles of the European Union and which have been applying them for many years. And all that's good, it's good to have it with us. Your finding was also that in our agriculture it's not all great. However, there have been some even graphic displays that investment in support and fostering agriculture have been increasing. You yourself also referred to incentives and support in agriculture. So I was wondering when you were talking about whether in the debate you wanted to point out a change in the financing system or investment in certain areas such as livestock and so on. Or did you think that there wasn't enough control in the current cost of incentives and support?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96155	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96156	Dear colleagues, I thank you for this question you said to Sami, I said it wasn't enough I don't think there's enough control in which the incentives are used and whether these incentives are then delivered and the corresponding products. But also, the incentive system itself should, in my opinion, be processed a little bit, go towards more encouraging investment in livestock, livestock branches. Whether this can be provided within the existing funds, or whether it can be provided by the European Union or in the state budget, I am leaving that part to the Ministry. But in any case, we should all think together that the more we help livestock, and clearly not neglecting this warring part of production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96157	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96158	My friend, you've been talking about incentives that are self-inflicted. The incentive system introduced by the HDZ in Croatia meant the death of agricultural production, as it is driven by a hectare no matter how much it is produced on the hectare. For, in the fruit industry there is an incentive per hectare of 9 thousand 500 kuna, and a hectare of land costs 12 thousand kuna. It's an investment means it's worth two years at the latest. Well, that's the only offering that's given to drug trafficking and arms trafficking. Instead of paying off the incentive to produce, you've produced a kilo of wheat and the state gives you an incentive to do so. How did you make it? You're in a jar, you're in an oran, so I don't care. As far as the state is concerned. And if this was a criminal system, here's an example of Minister Cobankovic, who started with 3 and a half hectares in 2004, and ended up with a property 30 times bigger when he was a minister, all through incentives. The incentives are designed to make HDZ people rich at the expense of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96159	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96160	Dear Mr Stazic, the system of incentives introduced by Croatia is applicable in the European Union. So it's a system of incentives per hectare, not a quantity of manufactured product. There are both options that have their own good and bad sides. You mentioned some names here. I wouldn't defend or attack anyone here. But I'd like to remind you of the orchard of your minister, Mr. Jacobine, who's been taken several times, and what I know is the same incentive taken, and then it's abandoned, that's the same example. Mr. Cobankovic, as far as I know, is doing his vineyard and his family lives on today. Whether there were any irregularities in the incentive and that, I don't know. But at least the man is doing it, and as far as I know, Mr. Jacobina is not in the business of agriculture at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96161	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96162	Thank you. My colleague Felak, I just have to fix it. It's not about incentives. It's about support because it's not about incentives. It's about support in agriculture. You said well at the beginning of the presentation that this Agriculture Act does not solve all the problems in agriculture, so here you have a chance as a position to improve this law until the second reading because this law does not improve anything in agriculture,... The law by which the minister boasts, the Agricultural Land Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, at Koprivnica-Crysing County, there's about 3.5 to 4,000 ha of state country, and you know how many units of local self-government have opened tenders for this new law, you know how many? Not one. No units of local self-government have called a competition. So much for this good Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96163	The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96164	Thank you, Mr. Mader. Here today is not subject to the Law on Agricultural Land, and in this part I have no need to reply to your replica, but nevertheless, I am surprised that from you as a representative of the HSS and your representative of the club speaking on behalf of the HSS Club, there are so many criticisms in the state of agriculture when you from the HSS were just one of the main creators in the 27 years of Croatia's existence. So one of the main creators of exactly agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia. Both the HDZ Government and the SDP Government, you had your own representatives, you had your ministers, you passed laws, the Agricultural Land Act, agriculture laws, and now you're so critical. Well, at least take some self-critics, so say some of us, and we're guilty and not just others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96165	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative Steve Coley, please. I'm sorry, Vlahe Orepic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96166	Privileges. I'm kidding. Dear Chairman, State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will try as in a whole series of exhibitions so far as I've been saying, point out one problem that burdens this high house that makes laws and looks like we can't solve, to get away from those problems that we share together and simply through this law everything can see all these problems. So the first of the problems is, I want to point out the assessment, the need to make an assessment of the impact of the law. We don't do this very significantly, we don't have a concrete assessment of the impact of the law. The next thing you can see through this law, I'm going to say, I'm not going to philosophize or go into some breadth and demagogy, meaning the inconsistencies of the adoption of related or supportive laws, whatever you want. And finally, what burdens all the legal acts more often is that they are underrespecting and in some way dissuasive to those to whom these laws apply, right. So the application of this law and the sublegal act or regulation in the register of farmers shall prescribe a completely new system, i.e. that includes the production of new OPG cards with magnetic tape, chip, a picture containing all the information on the farmer and his property, which he must first supply to the Agency through all of those 9 forms which are defined in Article 12 of that Regulation. It's a new cost. And it's said there will be no expenses. It's a new cost. In addition to the costs for farmers, new administrative costs are created, such as the costs of administrators to receive requests, issue solutions from the paying agency, and this results in the costs of magnetic card readers, etc., etc. This law and regulation has been adopted on the basis of a set of new costs for farmers themselves as well as for the budget not provided for in the budget for the financial year. It means that we currently have cca 167 000 OPGs and now that you take it means the cost of making a card, cards, costs of administrators, the costs of implementing and connecting the new system, the cost of issuing a solution to the agency, the cost of the card reader, etc., it is multipled. It's kind of, it's gonna have to be paid. So we have to keep an eye on it, and that's where we get that impact assessment of the laws we're making. Can you, as a proposer, provide the public with accurate information on the costs of changing laws and sublegal acts? The cost of farmers and the cost of the budget? Of course, it's prescribed how it's done, so proven... methodology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can't be, it can't be done at this point, we don't have that data, so then this law-making approach is wrong, not to say reckless. The law-making procedure, which means, as far as I'm aware, that law has not passed the previous impact assessment, has neither been done nor done this... the test, right, if I'm wrong, tell me and use the SCN calculator to calculate the cost that this law adopts and sublegal acts adopted on the basis of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course later, together with farmers, we will again wonder how the cost of agriculture is increasing and the development of agriculture is increasing. So I really want to make a contribution, and it's about time that we kind of respect this, my people, let's start doing laws that make sense. In this regard, I would like to mention that I have made a comment on the e-consultation of that law, which concerns the constitutional right of citizens. Be careful, the appropriate legal remedy, which is to appeal to the administrative acts of the ministry and the agency, but a comment like most others, is not accepted. As a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I cannot and do not agree with the inability to appeal to the administration of acts of the Ministry and the Agency and the comment was not adopted because I am responsible for submitting an application for administrative dispute, is that, we all know that, I do not want to give a statement, it is not in accordance with Article 18. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in accordance with Article 13 of the Convention on Human Rights, shall be entitled to an effective legal remedy. Starting a administrative dispute is not an effective legal act, it is not a legal remedy. The party must have the possibility to file an appeal as well as a second-degree possibility to initiate the administrative dispute. And in the end, I don't want to prolong, I don't understand why we're in such a hurry with this law at all, with this law that prescribes and acts as well as the structure of inspections when the current consultation on the law on the inspectorate, which clearly shows that the inspection will come out of the ministry and go into the new body. Once the Inspectorate Act is passed again, we will have to do another amendment to the law that will again be out of the adoption procedure because we are adopting the adoption procedure by a plan adopted in the previous year, the plan for the adoption of legislation is whether the articles that speak of the establishment and conduct of inspections... The Department of Agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not be hasty, make it transparent for the citizens and have more than a month of counseling available, because it is in some way proposed by the Commission, so 8 to 12 weeks of commission proposing itself. We allow all services to give their opinion both publicly and through the Internet, according to all acts, to lower themselves to the levels of the county to discuss every aspect of this law in the context and the previous assessment and harmonisation of the adoption of related and supportive laws and please try to make the laws to which these people are concerned to be maximumly legally protected, to have legally designed tools to be able to complain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96167	Thank you very much. We've got a replica, a respected representative of the Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Your colleague Orepić mentioned the right to effective legal protection, meaning when we talk about the right to legal protection against all international documents, it is primarily meant for judicial protection, meaning when we have a situation like this that is not allowed to appeal, it means the right to appeal to another executive body, the other body of the executive body, it is a legal remedy, but what guarantees legal protection by the basis of the European Convention, based on all the international documents of our Constitution, it is the right to judicial protection. And that right still exists through a lawsuit to the Administrative Court, and that's what you mentioned about the motion to launch a administrative dispute. I note that this is not unusual, meaning all practically independent regulatory bodies, agencies, since they do not have a directly superior body because they are independent as the name itself tells them, you have no choice but to go directly to the administrative court. So this is quite common and the right to effective legal protection is not injured in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96169	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96170	I cannot agree with you, we need to simplify the procedure, or simplify the lives of farmers, meaning they have a simple right to appeal against a solution by the ministry... What's the problem? Why is that avoided? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no formal legal restriction not to be so, and much simpler procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96171	Thank you. The next individual performance will be that of Steve Cole.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96172	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. I'm going to talk about agriculture in a special way not getting a lot into the articles of the law, the intentions, the good intentions and everything you've been talking about. I'll start with the consequences, and the consequence is that we have one big mess in the agricultural resort, the ministry, on the ground, amongst the people, farmers. And imagine we're one of the countries that bought the most tractors last year. Most tractors. I have drawn the attention of the Minister of Finance that in Croatia it is possible to close the catering facility because of excess or lack of 10 kunas, crafts, shops, any other facility, while at the same time powerful dragons roll around our orans without control, without taximeters, without fiscalizers, perform services per oral agreement and charge from jeeps, cash and carry, so many hectares, so many rabbits. There's a very large circulation of money and it's uncontrollable, it's question number one. No. 2. We have a Croatian village and I live in the country and so I happen to be in agriculture, and I've been doing it, and right now my youngest son is in the black Slavonian pig business, and imagine we have a problem, we don't know where to hand over 50 young pigs that are now in ideal weight, clownish, of course, since we don't have a ransom station. After the ransom station, we don't even have a slaughterhouse in Vinkovci anymore. We've got someone in Cerna who's a little capacity and what's he doing? How long does it work? Then we don't have a coolant who'll accept that cattle, not anywhere near it, and especially on that blue furrow we often mention somewhere on the coast, so that this top product can come to customers and our guests, tourists and others. And then we have the next problem, now we're doing corn in progress, we don't even have a Pic, where are we gonna hand over all that grain? And then we have another problem, the Croatian peasant did not at home build warehouses where he would spare products which, we can say, he was uncontrollably or unintendedly produced because of the situation on the market and now he does not know where he is going with the surplus product. Where the products are going, there's no accommodation capacity, there's not enough stock to drive that food through the cattle, and here's the problem again. Prices are wild, buyers are driving, blackmailing, buying, apples are standing under fruit trees. And I could talk a lot more from experience and what I know. But here in the previous debate there were also speeches to ministers and all those who swept through our ministries and left their visible trail, someone with one more zero cost shortages, the millions' damages, the billions that they produced. He mentioned a colleague of Stazic and one from my neighborhood, Mr. Cobankovic, who was there, had to work his punishment hard. It's an accident from our party. But I'll remember everyone else, especially before Mr. Tolusic. The one who was so entrenched that he succeeded in a simple small farm store whose owner was in his own space brought into such a gable and lost that he could only get away by becoming a minister of Croatian agriculture, so in the field he proved his ability through his actions by impoverishing himself to the end of the Croatian peasants. He managed to move the ceiling that there was not a pound left to feed his own family during the winter, as they used to like to say. I like to tell a little graphics like this all the things I know. And like this, it's got the title, the biggest robbery, and here's who's to blame for the big exodus from Slavonia, and that's why the young go away. The EU's largest robbery of funds in the Republic of Croatia is being held by Minister Jakovina, a former agriculture minister. The Republic of Croatia is the only country in which it is normal to start a company for 10 kn and then withdraw 5m euros, according to our Minister Tolusic, adding that Minister Romic is clean of SDP's mess and is trying to save what Tihomir Jakovina, the undertaker of Croatian agriculture, has done. He warns that someone from the former government will be held accountable for this robbery. I don't know if at this point you're conducting a procedure anywhere against the above-mentioned gentleman or against all the gentlemen who are to the harm of the Croatian people, I repeat they've been propagating through this Parliament. So, they came here on the wings of their parties, a party just because of political similarities, and certainly not because of their quality of expertise, knowledge, or God’s experience that many did not have in life, and especially not in entrepreneurship. Many were also ministers of crafts and entrepreneurship and were never private, nor were they working days in any form. So, the same minister says this, according to the morning list, which is true, the EC has hitched a payment of agricultural incentives to the Republic of Croatia worth 1.23 billion kuna. All this is happening. does not occur with the rural development programme cooked by former Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina who did not have the courage to implement his illegal decisions and related to the implementation of the rural development programme. They're 21 artificially engineered societies, and they're all acting crazy. The Republic of Croatia is the only country in which it is normal to start a company for 10 kuna and then withdraw 5m euros. Imagine that, gang up with the mob because what else do you call such characters as the mob? I'm the minister, you're my friend, and now I'm going to do your damages, I'm going to guess, I'm going to set up a tender that will be easy for you to accept and perform because you're going to meet the conditions of those who need to win this contest. And who am I gonna watch? I'm gonna tear down all those little farmers around you, little OPGs, who, thanks to your millions, are gonna lose that kilo of grain to survive the winter. So, these crimes that we've been looking at, what we witnessed today, they've been going on in these areas. This is where everything was decided. The colleagues raised their hands even though they knew that this incompetent and worthless man bearing that title as Minister of Agriculture, was a minister of agriculture. And that he often worked here, where is he today, where is this minister and all the other ministers now? Who do they work for? Who's paying them now? Whose players were they here? Adders, sleepers. Whose were they? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96173	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96174	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Culey, you can see that you're coming from the village, that you're hanging out with the villagers, that you see their problems, that you feel them, and they really are like this, I'm in a lot of agreement with your debate. I have criticised Minister Jakovina countless times for his solutions and I don't know what, but it has been three years since Jakovina. What have we been doing for three years? I would also like all ministers, however many there were, regardless of whose property they were, to determine their assets, their incomes, their expenditures, and so on, to adopt a law on illegal acquired property, which the HSS suggests that what I can't prove is that we tax it with 100%. I'd like to see them all, see where they are, what they have, what they've been doing and why Croatian agriculture has failed, and I think that's the reason, which is that because of it, Croatian agriculture has failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96175	Thank you for your response, Honorable Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96176	My dear colleague, when I was leaving my last post, which was like the wartime commander of the spa police, I took along a document saying a war route, signed by my direct commander, my chief and my general, who was not paved, which is not a fake, in which there is no false medical records. So it's my life and work in those seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96177	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96178	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. It is very clear to us that here the harmonisation with EU directives, therefore, for this one, but at the outset of this 2020 framework, of course, we expect everything to be implemented, especially what the minister has announced in new agriculture, common European policy, agricultural policy, for the period 2021-2027, and I would only like to look at the current situation in agriculture may not be directly stated in this law, but certainly this law is comprehensive and is actually touching the overall agricultural policies and strategies as such. We certainly have some statistical indicators, if we speak in 2016, that we always have about a million and 570,000 hectares that are processed slightly less than the previous year to drop agricultural production. However, certainly what is certain is clear that wartime production, without a systematic state call, and by doing so, I mean, of course, a certain incentive cannot survive. It's clear to all of us. But that doesn't mean we should give up on her. Of course, the minister here said that the previous laws, which we are, in fact, also the Agricultural Land Act, where, let's say, we favored livestock production, we know why, because we absolutely need it to maintain agriculture, agriculture with high added value, one that can, in fact, ensure as a prerequisite the entire annual work, because I don't know if our citizens know whether in a war variety, let's say when we talk about wheat, each year has an effective month and a half, maximum of two months. Plus a minus, whatever, and some three, but it's not. Sort of. You can't, of course, 3 or 4 months. The work of living the whole year must be clear to everyone. That doesn't mean people shouldn't plant wheat, what are we talking about, but what kind of wheat and how? In what way? When we talk about the degree of moisture and everything that is characterized by certain war cultures. When we talk about vegetable production, when we talk about livestock. And then as one of the preconditions, for this production, actually with a high added value, of course, when we talk about some frameworks, then we get a percentage that only about 3% of the agricultural area can be irrigated. When we talk about irrigation, we must always know that this parallel goes, and the drain system, because by 2013 we had more flood damage than the drought, but from 2013 onwards, I think about 42% of all the elementary disasters were precisely due to droughts and that it goes into hand with others. And that's what the state needs to stop. When we talk about the O.P.G.s, I've said it under previous debates, so we in the O.P.G. today have everything and everything. We have opgs that are larger than most d.o.o. which have mass production, hundreds of throats, dozens and dozens of employees but are OPGs or these family farms, and at least they are, rather than serious companies that do business and God has given them to continue to operate and as much as possible with tens of millions of kn of income. And then we take an O.P.G. that has several acres of land, which, or dozens, doesn't matter, that deals, differently each year whether seed production,... Especially for chips or for such processing, and for the second time, some vegetable, etc. etc. Because it has to change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There may be three or four other employees with him. Now that's that OPG in terms of the legislator, who everyone said and who we all think should be the future. But both have equal legal status. When we talked about the land assignment, it was interesting, because they complained a lot, that some d.o.o. will take precedence over the OPGs for production and all, but as far as I've seen, and as far as I can see... There are many OPGs that have far greater income and production than some d.o.o. So the form is not very questionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I immediately suggested, I would now elaborate on this. We have today and I will now list and use these five more minutes of what I have, for the sake of the public, 19 registered products, indigenous products, as regards geographical origin, i.e. with the designation of originality in Croatia. Well, that's the order, so Slavonic honey, Međimurje meat... Slavonic tower, Slavonic tower, Varazdinic cabbage, Sibenik olive oil, Pag lamb, Korčula olive oil, Krško olive oil, Zagorje turkey,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Soparnik, cabbage, Dalmatian prosciutto, držni prosciutto, Istrian prosciutto, character potato baranjski kulen, ogulinic acid cabbage or cabbage, extra virgin olive oil Cres, Neretva mandarina and Krčki prosciutto. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Two were published, so in status to register. It's Istrian extra virgin olive oil and hatch lamb. And we have 7 more that have applied the products, which are the Malostonic pebble, Pag cheese, the Varazdin clipic, the Bjelovar quargl, the mining reef and two more Zagorje mills and paška salt. Here's about the data from the European website. I want us here to have this proposal, which I have already said earlier, that we know within the scope of the possibility what a common European policy is, but these are the products that wear and which will bear the European label. I think that we towards Croatia can certainly protect, improve the placement, increase visibility, especially you in the tourist season. One of the proposals is precisely for such products, one of the proposals is the systematic lease of space if you want on shelves but especially shelves in our markets, shops with such products in a place where it is visible so that everyone who comes, we but also foreigners have exactly all those products that want to be there and I don't think there's anyone who wouldn't want to be available to us and especially to ensure that their placement and visibility and visibility in Europe are better. It's a smart agricultural policy, it's just a small segment. So it's nothing revolutionary. But that is something to show why it is important and why others would compete to obtain that certificate or that registration. Because then it is known that if something Europe has approved that we have the right to this European... products to promote on our soil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think there would be any obstacle to any kind of incentive that Europe always has to approve. And that's why many times when we talk about agriculture, because I come from Slavonia and Baranja, we say that we're a rich country of poor people. Especially in Slavonia and Baranja, we have a truly fertile and rich country that we have obviously not yet been able to use on the potential of all who have. We know that we created mega-opgs, entrepreneurs who are only mega-sized combineds and tractors that bought but not mega-permanent land they worked on. Why? Because it was convenient to get 50% or how many grants already, buy the mechanism on board and be the main Baja in the village. And how many hours does the machine have, how profitable it is, and how much he carries the cost of maintenance later and what it means for that, is then. So systematically we have to be aware, we had big protests four and five years ago milkmen, and at the same time some worked profitablely. And I was wondering then and then at the County Assembly, so how is it possible, from the same village or neighboring village you have a production that is profitable where man has no problem with the ransom or with the price and some have it. And then we get to what the minister was talking about today and the roof association, when we talk about the chamber of agriculture, about everything that it should have its function in both nouha and in a way because I think it's the key and education of our agricultural producers. Those who know it's not just a crew anymore, and you're sure to sell it, but it's that, when market recognition, market prices and everything that only the market is already carrying, and not let people wander on their own somewhere and then, of course, be guilty of their problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96179	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96180	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Of course listening to all the comments on agriculture, I know it's a state strategy from after the war to today, what we've done, we all see. Looking at and observing villages as alone in Slavonia, we see that Slavonia has been destroyed so far, destroyed, literally said. These 20 years of agricultural policy implementation could be freely said to be criminal. Some farming and some farmers can be said to be successful. However, we in Slavonia where we live from some and some of them, we live from most of the citizens down that unfortunately we can now say in half the villages have been evicted. What's the biggest problem? We're young. We have about 20 years' worth of about 40,000 farms closed down, milkmen, which are some kind of dairy industry. The orchards failed because they had nowhere to go with the products, organic production of course is not enough even though we have every prerequisite to be good. I don't think we're still polluted with GMO products and we're not polluted like a country that's going west a little bit, who eats their food there will see that we're far, far ahead of them and that we're far more quality and healthy. But we don't know how to use it. Of course, I am aware that we have entered Europe, I am aware that we must respect some European norms, European laws and adapt to that. I ask the question of what has happened so far, so far, I'm talking about when it was debated agriculture when all these preconditions that we have in Slavonia that we've had have always been unable to present and know how to do more. By listening to colleagues and knowing and observing politics these 28 years, anyone could have been a minister, anyone could have been a minister, it's only important that they belong to a foreigner. Of course everything that's been going on and how it's happening today we've been brought into this where we are. I'd say we state, so far we've been a bankruptcy state. Why? Because we've always borrowed, we've been doing something, we've been doing some credits, we've been throwing away this money that practically nothing special has raised a farmer, I'm listening very much, of course, to the most tractors last year or this year, I guess. That doesn't solve the problems but the truth is, if the colleagues were also talking about taking people bigger tractors than they needed to show up in the village that they were powerful, yes. The control of agriculture itself so far is not enough and it is not good at all because individuals have taken incentives to anything and certainly not really in development, and that tractor that was bought is good, of course, not bad, better than taking a jeep, anyone. And not to say that they drive both luxury Mercedes and jeeps and all other things, farmers, act big tycoons and, in fact, they're morally destroying these little people who are also dealing with agriculture, who are also struggling with their pigs and their own in the villages, but some tycoon has jumped out over all these honest, high-quality people. If we're talking about Slavonia and we all know it's the only nation worth the most in Croatia, the whole of Slavonia. So we see that we have both the sea and the police and everything we need, workers by sea are from Slavonia. And why are people leaving you? Well, that's a question we all need to know once and say why they're leaving, so who's to blame, of course we are. Well, I can put myself in that part of the world, too, because I came to this House to tell some truth, not to be a populist. I'm not one party, of course here I gave my hand to HDZ, I think this government is going in one good direction and that's why I'm somewhat satisfied. Of course in two years you can't turn anything upside down, it's a process. And this process must be the first legal state, under number one, to contain crime both in agriculture and in all segments, especially in agriculture, and everyone knows it. Everyone knows that when you come to one, to walk around that town to talk about everything, all people will tell you what's going on, only the institutions of the Croatian state don't see it, unfortunately they don't see it. That's why those same kids say I'm not staying in a country like that anymore, I'm going out. I'm asking, here I am now looking for three workers a year at the Bureau I can't find. Professional natural electrostructions. There isn't. They're gone, people. How companies are going to work, who's going to process that country tomorrow, we need it already, we should have known that a long time ago. So when we talk about ministers like you, who were the same ones who supported those same ministers and now you spit on other ministers. That's the easiest. It's the easiest thing to say right now is that these aren't working and yesterday I was with them. So wait, gentlemen, where we are, what we do, is this a populist or parliamentary where we should work, where we need to be sure of what we say not to be ashamed of ourselves as a man when we come to our city. That's the question. I believe that all the laws in agriculture were good and that they were solved properly but were not implemented and no one was in control. Now that's a question of everything. If it had been done, if it had been controlled, if it had been done, we'd have arranged agriculture today. People want to work. What I'm going to say next, Borans, Vinkovsky, where I live 310 acres. How did they turn him? Well, it's science fiction, the man who buys it for nothing, sells it to the state for 100 million and something million, so did he answer? No one. What's up? It's healed, it's done something now, 310 acres. Well, that was one of the biggest orchards in Europe. We ruined it, we're experts at ruining it. Of course I'll ruin it for my own interests but I won't answer to anyone. That's the question. Let's trust these citizens. We in politics, including the prime minister and the president, and we all have to trust these citizens to believe in us for what we do. We can't talk populist until yesterday I didn't do anything and today I'm saying nothing's wrong. I believe, I see it's going a little better but it's going hard. And let's all make some kind of order in the country together. Well, that's our mission here that we're coming to. Those who chose me, me personally, you and us all together. We won't do that. The important thing is to say they don't work, but I'm good. These don't work, but tomorrow I'll be with him again. It's a question of pulsism policy. We turn out to be populists here. No, actually, it's a lot of citizens who came here to solve some problems. Let's try this law and all that law goes through, but by law. So I personally think that this society, this country, this agriculture, we're afraid of strangers, will come buying. So why would they be afraid of a stranger if he bought the Bosnians and the Bosnians were working? Why should we be afraid of that? Those who speak, let's not give it to strangers. We gave our people what they had done. Well, Bruno Busic said the deceased a long time ago, so when we get the state, we'll steal it. Well, that's what we did, so we got the state into bankruptcy, which is bankruptcy, when it's gone, you have more debt than you're worth. Well, we had Agrokor that you saw, 56 billion in debt, and it's still said that something is unfair. And how did he buy it? You can't possibly buy such a big firm and so much wealth. But let it be done right. It's a question of all questions, not a question of which authorities. This country can't be taken away, it's our country. A man can come work in it, but he has to respect it and spend it. And we have to control it. Well, today, let's say Agrokor is someone else's but we have to control him, we have institutions. It's a country. We unfortunately made the state who we are. I personally hope that this will go better and hopefully this law that we have read, we see, of course, we must listen to European directives, of course we must try as much in agriculture irrigation as possible to achieve greater results. This year, we've had luck with the rain, but here's God, let's make it rain like that and next year, and let's get some company, and we'll have it all right, and our people will come back. Because Europe is no better than we just don't know how to work. That's our problem. We can't respect, we can work, we can respect, but we can't respect our own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96181	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's Steve Cole's first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96182	My dear colleague, here I am just having a quick talk. You're talking about the Bosnians. In Borinci, my late father planted the first fruit on the slopes... So it was this postwar generation that planted an apple orchard that stretches from Ivanov to Vinkovac, and we remember the big investments of the project there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you won't believe it, and you've mentioned well how the Warriors were sold. One of our esteemed presidents of the Croatian Parliament, we will not say the name, he has favored one gentleman who was the first customer, so that first buyer gave the other buyer for nothing and that is the fate of the Bosnians, as well as all that we witness today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96183	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96184	Comrade Culey, yes. We're both from the same neighborhood. We know everything about what's been going on. But what's the problem? It's no problem that someone didn't know how to run the Borans, what he did to the Bosnians. That's the problem. Did anyone answer? It's not. Now, that's what I'm talking about here. Would anyone like to... - Is that okay? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A visible crime. And how many years does it take for the Warriors to rise again into the status that it was. Of course, the war has destroyed its own and had problems and it's stolen a lot, but with one smart, honest policy, the Bosnians would be fantastic today, we would have a factory and juices which was long ago needed to do it in the Borins, but, well, someone doesn't know or won't know what reason we have. Here's the stern we closed. We don't have open livestock food, so, of course, we don't need it, what do we need it for. And so some things, I don't speak deeply. We've got to say it's ashes, we're guilty, let's go fix it. I'm hoping this time will come to a correction, and I think it's quite a 28-year-old failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96185	Thank you very much. The next one is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Misic, here is not only you, but we listen to criticisms from the Ministry from the past, according to the bad laws, and that is interesting, precisely from the ranks of the ruling or those who, as you said yourself, are not a member of the party, but you support the ruling one. And now, I ask myself one question, since you yourself said that in Slavonia, but I will not say only in Slavonia, I will say in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Face, there are natural preconditions. You mentioned valuable people in that Slavonia, but I'll spread them to other ends. But I'm going to ask you a question. As in some regions, whether they are bad laws or good, whether the HDZ or SDP minister has managed to impose certain products such as those. in Istria or in Međimurje, and in Slavonia it does not work. I will immediately try to answer because no one mentions it today, and these are import lobbys, and who protects them I don't know, should find them, who import non-quality products into the Republic of Croatia and destroy domestic producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96187	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96188	Thanks, buddy. Of course, you said that well. They are importing certain goods and we know that meat can be frozen in Europe for six months, with us being introduced for a year. That's number one. Why in Slavonia, bad laws. There are no bad laws, they just need to be, of course, updated, but they're all somewhere close, but they need to be controlled by the ones that do it. You see, our people came to you last night, watching TV, Slavonia, picking olives, you don't have the same worker, so they came from Slavonia to pick olives with you. So, the nice olive tree I saw on TV, lots and lots of acres. Now, that's what you need to see. Now, that's it. What's the problem? The problem is to respect trust and laws, which is the country's institution's duty to control. What's done, whether there's a crime, and that's what we've got inspections, unfortunately they don't. That's what I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96189	The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96190	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well esteemed colleague Misic, I would like to highlight what has been done well in this period in these last two years, regardless of what we must be critical, but if you can see from the data that in November 2016 an advance was paid to farmers 800 million kuna, so in November 2017. 945 million kuna, that VAT is reduced from 25% to 13 for livestock food, repromaterials, seedlings, protection products, etc. So then how many projects are applied and paid for in this period, then we have to say that there are gaps, there are negative things that happen, let's fix it all and do something that's good because from these advances some farmer is very, very well, and many live well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96191	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96192	Thank you, colleague. I may have forgotten, but I must mention, yes. This government, yes, is a lot and is trying to solve the issue of Slavonia and the meetings themselves, and some day 600 million were signed in the White monastery. I agree with you and I hope so, and that's what I said, that I believe this government will go one way. However, the failure is, I was talking about the failures of the boredom of what was going on and that's what I was talking about. I hope there won't be any more of that. If it hadn't been for that 800 million dropped, that... targeted given something to help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You didn't help someone if you gave them, and they threw that money into something that wasn't worth it. So I hope that this government will aimly give certain and control whether they, that, and that did what they had to do and that was all. Order, order, order and work. And when we do, then, of course, this government has shown its feelings for Slavonia and I think it will go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96193	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96194	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, I am glad that this debate has developed so little and hastily and with increased tones because I believe that we are here to discuss, we come from all segments of society, and people in the Ministry if they are smart from our discussions may be able to draw something useful for the law on agriculture and for the future of Croatian agriculture. But in these discussions, I've heard some things I can't really believe. A colleague, Djakic, in response to my reply, says, quote, here I was just going to listen to a phonogram, and we intercepted the minister's assistant e-mail. The SMS affair that's shaking today is nothing new. If it was done earlier, here, colleague Djakic testifies it, he said it, you can listen to the phonogram and you will see. So where my people go and what we do, if we follow everything and listen, we intercept, and normally we have the situation we have. But to get back to agriculture, we talked a lot today about the farming strategy that should be made. The strategy of agriculture should work and grind until it is adopted by consensus. So that all those who bring this strategy and the next government changes continue to work on this strategy. Unfortunately, we have something that's done well, it's changed with a new set, and it's always said, it's not well done. Did we mention that too? Yes, in agriculture there is a system of archods and agrored something good that was made. If nothing, at least you can see who took all the support and where. Whether someone took the wrong thing or not, it's some other thing now, but you can clearly see through the ark who has the land, there's no overlapping and there's no means of support, which the farmers get and belong to. Unfortunately, Croatia's agriculture, our imports are covered only 60% with exports. That number would also be devastating, even better, if it weren't for corn, soybeans, rapes and wheat that we export. Thanks to the open borders towards the EU, we do not have to sell these products and therefore the war sector is functioning. Not because of a good agricultural policy against the warriors, but because we have a market with a decent price. Even though we do not know the price in Croatia today until the harvest begins, then, when we enter the harvest, some price is monitored. Here, the other day I had from the farmer's cooperative and Slovenia price list, they were two months ago. come out with a price of corn, from dry corn to all moisture. And they're not exactly some corny area to produce, like us. Agriculture is also at risk by the Hunting Law. I've been discussing this law here, the gamer's doing a lot of damage, and we treat ourselves like hunting is a strategic branch, not agriculture. I'd like you, too, to write the laws of agriculture, and you who discuss, and you haven't tasted, to try to deal with agriculture, to see what the damages of savages look like and how they charge for it. Almost not at all. And with the court's security evidence and the great money that you've invested in court trials for years, and the charge is uncertain, because often it's not there. Today there was also talk of new tractors, which the peasants have. Dear colleagues, I would be happy if all peasants had new tractors. I don't know if any of you know, 14 hours to sit in a tractor for days like that. Well, when you have a new tractor, it's kind of easier to handle. And when you have an old bucket with a hard seat, it gets hurt and your spine and look at what these people look like, who's been working on agriculture for 30-40 years. Let us enable them all to have new tractors and let them all have Mercedes, and then they will be a rich peasant, and believe that Croatia will be a very rich country. The richest countries in Europe have the strongest agriculture, Germany, France, Italy, look at their farms. They have no problem with their products, they know very well what they will sell and all their products. They say we can't ban imports. As Slovenia banned the import of industrial apples, they closed the borders and could not industrial apples from Croatia to Slovenia, the end of the story. ... We can do anything, and then our production goes down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where people say even about the proposals, that the larger OPGs must have a busy agronomist. Well, now, should I get the O.P.G. to do more spending? Well, it doesn't cost an agro 100 kn a month. Instead of creating an organisation where agronomies will be well paid where experts will come to work for good pay, which will develop new technologies and monitor the implementation of these new technologies in agriculture on family farms. What are we doing now? We're bringing the advisory services together with the ministry. I don't think it's a good move. We were supposed to divorcing that advisory service, give people a bigger salary, so for five or six thousand kn, no expert will work there, I think you're all aware of that. The livestock industry, which has been destroyed in Croatia, and we are all aware of that, especially the dairy sector, is a big problem, because livestock production is an engine of agricultural production. The livestock industry consumes primary raw materials from warfare and creates a final product through the processing industry. We had this processing industry, it's being destroyed systematically, those who still resist, here's thank God, offering some kind of Croatian product. We destroyed a little peasant who produced raw materials for that, because we said, no, it's not worth having two cows. And listen, people, many of us grew up on two cows and many of our parents built houses with two cows and a couple of sows. We have to remember that, let's not be ashamed, if we came from the village, I'm unfortunately still there, unfortunately, I love being there and always will be. My colleague Bulj has a desire to answer, here in the replica, please tell me everything. It's sad to see that young people go away, not to see the perspective of agriculture, I know that by this law, that you don't know how well you wrote, you can't solve that problem now, but once we have to deal with this kind of solution in agriculture because agriculture has to be important to us all, and like I said, a consensus on the agricultural strategy that we all agree on where we're going and that we know where we're going. We did a miracle of agricultural strategies, we did development strategies... According to the county, it was done by experts from the EU, whether or not they were experts, but if they found out all about our agriculture, they did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why they set us up with such obstacles to the use of funds that we can't use them, that they knew very well what our obstacle was and they told you here's the money and you don't know how to use it, that's your problem. That's your problem. Over 50% of the funds go into direct payments. What did we pull? While some people once again have withdrawn machines that they don't need and then maintenance for these machines will eventually kill them, or they will have to be sold out when that deadline is over as long as they have to hold them. I'm quite emotionally related to agriculture, all I'm saying is I'm not saying I'm right, but that's my opinion, and if my opinion at least contributes to the improvement of the agricultural situation, I'll be happy. If someone wants to listen to it, it means personal experience and production, from talking to my neighbors, to coffees that don't know me as a parliamentary representative, but as Zeljko, and tell me openly what they won't say in front of other people. And that's why I think these people need to listen, hear their real problems and their opinions on the ground, and therefore create laws and put development in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96195	We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96196	Thank you. My colleague Lenart, I grew up in Husain, you grew up in Kutinsko village, we actually took an air line 3 km away from living a large part of our lives. Now, what's the fundamental question that's being asked is how do we take advantage of our country? I have the impression that the country was much better used at the time that we lived in socialism than now, which is sad, which is not good, and I think that the fundamental thing that this country needs to do is to prepare one platform for farmers and cattle farmers and that platform would allow them all to produce together in some way each and every one together and to put together these products in the cheapest way possible towards those who spend their products. To do so, the state must organise a certain platform and prevent intermediaries, traders from earning a profit on margins of 200, 300, 400, 500 and perhaps 600% on other people's torture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96197	Thank you, the answer of Honorable Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96198	Here's a thank you to my neighbor's ex, colleague Alexic. Unfortunately, no one wants to buy our products because we have allowed all possible trade chains to enter the Republic of Croatia whose job is normally to place goods from those countries or what is more worth it. Unfortunately, all the actions that are done in the big centres are done on the back of our manufacturers. Our vegetables. And the malls generally sell more expensive goods than they sell in the markets. However, because of the property situation, Croats have to go to the centres, iron the card there, they have to give cash to the market, and then it's easier to go to the centre, buy everything, even though it's worse quality, but there is no need to pay immediately than it can be later. If all Croats decided to buy Croatian goods, they would buy cheaper, eat healthier and live longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96199	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96200	Thank you very much. Well, here's colleague Lenart, I've been very interested in listening to your debate, but in one thing you're contradictory. If I understand correctly, praise the benefits of the common European market in terms of exports of products and then say that imports from other EU countries should be banned. That sounds very convenient, I wish it could work that way but that's not how it works. So when you're part of one common market, one single legal system, then you have to follow rules that apply to everyone. So one thing you can't do, you can't ban imports of products from other EU countries to protect your own producers. You can and this is the practice of the EU court that counterpart Alexic loves very much, he may tell you something more about it. What you can do, you can limit imports if products are unquality, if they have not passed security inspections to protect public health, consumers etc., but that's another thing, it can. but you can't say we forbid imports because our producers are less competitive than foreign ones, so we'll ban foreign imports from staying only domestics that are more expensive. Unfortunately, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96201	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96202	My friend Falcon, you wouldn't listen to me. I told you that Slovenia banned the import of Croatian industrial apples, how could they? Well, there's always a way to limit it, to create an obstacle so it's invaluable to introduce some goods to help our producers. There's a catch, so there are hidden incentives, go a little bit, visit the villagers in Germany, in Bavaria, in Italy, in France, and you'll see how it's done. There's a lot of ways to limit it and help its producers sell it first and then sell what goes in if it's missing. And we don't have any people of mine, we don't have anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96203	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96204	My dear colleague, you said you were accessing this subject emotionally, and with full right, I'm not an expert on agriculture, but I do know something. I know that without speech and without agriculture there is no civilization. A few tens of thousands of years ago, man spoke and thus was able to tell the truth of his own being and the social character of his nature. It was only when he developed agriculture that institutions began to develop from agriculture, from military to government and even religion. So this question that you've raised is an extremely important question, it's not just about your own emotions but about our development emotions, as much as we're able to develop agriculture, we're so able to be open to any form of progress and your exposure can only praise that you understand the importance of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96205	Dear Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96206	Here I thank my colleague for making this contribution in philosophical terms, in a way that he understands best, which is essentially true. I'll just say it, I'll quote Stephen Radic who said, "We're all peasants in the soul, except for those who don't have a soul."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96207	And the last replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulja, especially as challenged by fellow Lenart, he must replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96208	Nothing has to be done in life, just die, Mr. Vice President. You said that you lived in the country, that the more we lived in the country would be much better, and not if two-thirds of Croatia were empty, you said as unfortunately, and it was probably your lapus living in the country because I like living in the country. People should be invited to stay and live in the country, but how are we going to brand our products in agriculture when on Pag, where they feed on sheep’s pastures, where the cheese is produced is now an overloaded cell of mixed waste, unclassified waste? In the middle of Pag and people protest, 20 OPGs that have withdrawn funds from the EU funds rebel because they feed sheep, brand Croatian Pag cheese because we are likely to import from Italy and other countries and Pag cheese, as we import Slavonese pork and Dalmatian prosciutto? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96209	Thank you, the answer of Honorable Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96210	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, unfortunately, fellow Bulj can also be understood as a lapsus and not as a lapsus because unfortunately some people in the country have no near conditions for those in the city, some have no water supply, they have bad electricity, they have no fast internet, they have not much, they are far from the doctor, far from the world, far from the view from Zagreb and are simply forgotten. But living in the country has many advantages, those raising children in the country have far healthier children than those in the city, both physically and mentally. It may be misunderstood, but these children still run in the courtyards, still less looking at the screens and eating far healthier food than the one that is being spent today from all the bags because in the city everything is from some bag, nothing was raised at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96211	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Hrvoj Zekanovic, he is gone. He's losing his right to speak. So individual debate will now be discussed by the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96212	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So there is a roof law in the area of agriculture and the resolution ministry, it has 12 heads and 177 articles, so it is a comprehensive law, we could, by example, tell the Americans that this law has been prepared by Tolusic's administration, came here to the Parliament, and there is not much to complain about on that side. What I would point out immediately and what it says in the very explanation is: the consequences of the law being passed. The proposed law improves the current framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy for the programming financial period from 2014 to 2020 and the adaptation of national legislation in the area of agriculture. It is therefore explicitly said about 2014 to 2020. And, of course, now I'm looked at in wonder by the representatives of the ministry, I'm not saying it as an example, but as a fact and, of course, the law also says that in the very opening part of the law that it actually expresses the principles of agricultural policy, those to be implemented, agricultural policy. And what's the main objection that we've heard here today in the assembly, and where's the strategy, where's what we're going to set ourselves up in the future? So here if I'm talking about this law, and you're admitting it yourself, and you're explaining it in the introduction, it's a document that will take care of the improvements in the current financial perspective. We cannot ignore the fact that the debate is under way and the alignment of positions related to the financial perspective from 2020 onwards. So a common agricultural policy. I will read to you only one of these introductory parts, and related to the common agricultural policy that is foreseen after 2020. The common agricultural policy leads to a transition to sustainable agriculture. Its task is to strengthen the resilience of the agricultural sector and to support the income and sustainability of farmers, to ensure that agriculture fully fulfils its role in terms of environmental and climate challenges and to fully accept digital innovations that facilitate business for farmers, reduce administrative burdens and support generation renewal. In rural areas, more than 50% of the EU population therefore need to step up efforts to keep those areas vital and attractive for life in terms of growth and jobs, as well as infrastructure, mobility and basic services. So in this short part, a long sentence, and a short part of this introduction is about those key problems that we were talking about here today. So on the one hand, we want to have quality, safe and affordable food for our citizens. On the other hand, we must have a farmer who can survive in the rural area so that these rural areas do not remain empty and that life can take place on them. And on the third hand, we have to protect the environment because without that environment, without resources, and that is primarily agricultural land we cannot have quality agricultural production. As a result, I am not surprised that there is no article or item in the agricultural law that could, for example, be rewritten and Article 2 paragraph 1 of the Law on Agricultural Land which writes very clearly agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its particular importance. Agricultural land is only mentioned in the agricultural law in three places, along the way. I think that, although it is clear in itself, I think it would be good to mention agricultural land in the agricultural law because it mainly mentions the concepts of more acceptable hectares, areas, so agricultural land has a special interest in the Republic of Croatia has its personal protection. So, with these objectives that we are talking about, the sustainability of space, the achievement of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, it is important, and I don't know if this document could have been made, and you yourself have stated that this is now the period until 2020, because maybe it's the key and all of our problems that individual governments are bringing in these documents or laws, and then someone else will change that. These laws should be a little longer and based on this common agricultural policy. Because why is the reform of the common agricultural policy now being implemented? From what I understand, the main emphasis in the future will be that Member States can correct their own agricultural policy. So, in the area of incentives, in the sphere of sensitive sectors, they will, moreover, be less focused on rules and coherence, and more attention will be paid to results and success. And it's going to be used instead of the same approach for all of us, and it's going to be using a measure-based approach, primarily for those who produce themselves, so in practice. So it's going to go towards the agricultural producer. And that allows Member States to choose. And hence that debate, if direct payments are reduced, so incentives, how many countries can then, if the EU is going in this direction to reduce direct payments and something is falling for rural development, how much can the state intervene to correct it in order for farmers to get the necessary income to succeed in being competitive and to stay in these areas. What we can't forget whenever we say, we can, we're here, I'm speaking now in the opening of this debate, so this really is a large law, just to say, it takes a few minutes to state what's in that law. But what we must not interfere with in the mind, 97% of the EU's agricultural economies are OPGs. And there's the key. Everything is based on families, OPGs, and we actually have to base our survival on them. And these OPGs cover 70% of the EU land. So the average is about 10 hectares, and it's not a negligible fact that the OPGs make up even 60% of them, they belong to the category of largest economies over 100 hectares. So the OPGs are extremely important. The only, maybe here in the debate and one of my colleagues said there was, I mentioned here today, it's not xenophobia, it's not about the fear of the country buying strangers. But we also warned at the OPG law that it might be illogical for a stranger to establish an OPG, not live here. It can have in some way, it can, let it establish any other economy agriculturalally, but it can't be an OPG because then we're breaking the fundamental principle on which we're actually based the role of the OPGs. I am confident and I assure you that the OPGs can ensure the sustainability of both Croatian villages and Croatian agriculture. This is absolutely certain and therefore should be done in these laws, someone has noticed the same thing in the Agriculture Act, and especially in the sublaws that are passed to the rules on this, make sure that the OPGs can survive and remain in these areas, and that we can then have better food and that what is happening to us is that despite the large investments in agriculture, we have less and less production. This is not good and needs to be detected, see what the problems are and as far as agricultural land is concerned, we now face challenges, I don't know if the Ministry has begun to approve the programmes for agricultural land. Soon the competitions should start and a good part of the local self-government unit limit the quantities of hectares and then, in that sense, help the advisory service and all to prepare young, especially young farmers to prepare for competitions so that it does not happen now that local self-government units have freed up, so to speak the country, and that those who need to compete for it, do not simply apply to the competition. So that's going to be devastating because then we didn't do it, we actually did it double, to express the damage. So I appeal to the Ministry as soon as possible to approve these programs. And another note. This is where a colleague from HSS talked about the machinery. So there are, there are big shifts, so a lot of farmers have renewed their machinery, but what we need to know, it's their workplace and it doesn't give any security. It's just machines, after all. They're the only ones that can be provided with security on agricultural land. In the programs, actually in the Agricultural Land Act, we predicted those 25% for sale. However, as it will be in practice and whether these programmes are indeed in place and whether these requirements for return are really going to be more and more, the return of land to former owners causes that the countries will eventually not be enough. These are some of the questions that are being opened to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96213	Thank you, too. A few replicas and your exposure. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96214	Thank you very much. Here, I am pleased that you have mentioned the EU's common agricultural policy, because it is indeed one area where the EU has the greatest ingenuity, the greatest direct input and the greatest direct impact on the everyday life of citizens, and that is the waste of the largest part of the European budget. As for the next financial perspective, it should be said to the public that the situation is quite complex. So, you have the initiatives of most of these Western members who are not so strong in agriculture and who are the net payer in the European budget, that the budget for the common agricultural policy and for the structural funds is reduced. The position of the Croatian government is clear here. Our view is that, or the position of the Republic of Croatia is that this should not be reduced, but I certainly think that the whole society should be aware of these discussions at European level, that it should be supported by the Government to continue to protect national interests in Brussels, which is, after all, work both of us and here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96215	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96216	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, however, here and I am glad that your closing word or sentence is just saying what is crucial, to represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia. That's the key. And I think you're right when you say that you need to do everything to prevent this intensity so those who are poorer to get less, it's not simpler then, then the EU's sense and everything we've signed for and what we expected by entering this big community is lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96217	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96218	Thank you. Dear counterpart Sagar, you said that over 50% of the population in the EU is in the country and the EU is advanced, in principle, advanced, in most cases. And statistics in Croatia from that socialist Republic to this sovereign Republic says so. '61. 68% in the country, '71. 58%, '81. 48%, '91. 44%, 2001. 42% and 2011. 39% of the population lives in the country. So we have a trend of reducing the population in the country and that means actually stagnation of the Republic of Croatia. Until the Republic of Croatia turns the process upwards, according to the settlement of the village, according to life in the country, it will stagnate, will not progress, and it will not be resolved by any laws but by special measures that must be designed by a smart brainstorming team that we do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96219	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96220	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, unfortunately you're right. So we witness every day that there are fewer and fewer people in our rural areas, not only in rural areas, it seems to be getting smaller and smaller in cities, so you have cities like Djakov that I've heard are just getting smaller and smaller. The best demographic measure is the workplace. There is no other demographic measure, no job, and whatever law you get here in the House, and this Agriculture Act, we need to think about jobs. I think that, I said once and Minister, Minister, you don't have to send inspections in the fields, go just to the store where people sit, hold on, drink beer or juice, pay them a round of drinks, you'll know everything, who handles the land, who sublets, who has employees, who doesn't have employees, who uses incentives one way or another. If more order were introduced, then perhaps better results would be achieved but without opening jobs there is no future for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96221	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96222	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, you stressed that the CAPs are the most important to the survival of agriculture. I can agree with you that they are very important, that there should be a part of the agricultural activity on them but I don't think they can be the backbone of agriculture if we want strong agriculture, I think that there should be much more to be done there in a way that especially in the warfare round and association large farmers can be produced at a more favourable price so that we can be as competitive as possible and I think we also need to identify which cultures we want to grow, support, and in gardening and from everything we can live because no one is good and there is no large amount, can grow in all cultures. So I think we should think that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96223	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96224	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, therefore, you're absolutely right, I'm, perhaps I've expressed myself clumsyly, it's more from the point of view of the sustainability of space, so our spaces don't remain empty. It seems to me that here, let's say, despite Agrokor's passing the way he did, I think that in agriculture he had significant good results. The question arises, however, how will spaces be sustainable if large farmers take over the entire area because large farmers can be more competitive in the market by law and then the key is in all of this, and what is mentioned in the law, as mentioned in all the documents is sustainable development, how to achieve sustainable development, on the other hand and to be sustainable not only from the point of view of sustainability of agricultural entities but from the point of view of the sustainability of space and life in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96225	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a final statement will be made by the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96226	Thank you very much. I'm sorry the minister didn't stay for final exposure because this is a very important law. We kind of called here this morning, so he came very short. I'd like him to speak his mind about these discussions because the fact that everything that has been said here has been entirely meaningful by all parliamentary representatives. Except for the piece written by the minister to read and there was no time to read the signature. The fact is that at this point Croatian farmers will get this law i.e. They're still going to argue about him, there's going to be time, I hope he gets out of this, but this law doesn't define anything at all. No implementing measures or incentives, except we have... So the eight laws that exist, which are bad, which have led Croatian agriculture to where it has been implemented in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has been wrong so far, they have put only one law and it is a very nice explanation of it, very nice to present to the public, and I can tell the public that we have a law on agriculture that is unique. All these laws were harmful to Croatian farmers. All kinds of questions. At this point it means 2017. and in 2018 the increase, in 2017 we imported 76 kg of fruit and vegetables per capita in the Republic of Croatia, which means more than 50% of the needs we imported. More than 50%. We do not have the protection of domestic production on the market that other members of the other country have. There's that in Hungary. So our farmer is left to himself that he's simply forced to drink his orchards because he can't sell fruit and we import 76kg or 50% of fruit and vegetables. Therefore, this law at this point is not more than a mockery of farmers, because we have not received a single explanation, not one measure, except for cohesion funds, who says that there is no mention in the EU that there will be no more '21 by 2020. Mr. Cohesion Funds for Undeveloped. But that money we've paid 30 billion kn will naturally go to developed countries and that's the goal. This is the goal of both Tuska and Junker and all of them is the goal and Andrej Pelnkovic, because there are no undeveloped, no more solidarity in the EU. What if they shut down that fund for the underdeveloped, which our peasant gets, nothing. It's the 30 billion we paid in 6 2014. They're not coming back in 2020. Yeah. It is a key policy in the EU to exploit peasants and villages, mainly Croatian peasants, because we have always run a dorsar policy, which has mostly collapsed, towards farmers, because at this point we have no villages or agriculture, we have empty villages. I repeat, this law does not apply to land, but it is the fact that land is agricultural, the basics that we must protect. In 2020, we allowed foreign, natural and legal persons to buy land, and in Hungary they cannot be bought. Because the people are in the referendum, there's strategic land, agricultural land is strategic, are we in the EU? We're not even, and by this law that's been prescribed, 8 laws that are existing, which are bad, we have nothing new, here I am asking the Minister to call him, to tell them, what's new, of these eight existing laws, in this law that's unique in agriculture, nothing. Nothing for a peasant. Nothing for the OPGs, ma'am, is funny, but the fact is that the greatest vermin is an import lobby in the ministries, primarily the Ministry of Agriculture. And the biggest vermin, I repeat to you, five times, the biggest pests of Croatian villages are the Ministry of Agriculture, import lobbies, which do not want by law to protect Croatia and domestic product, it is a fact, because I cannot understand that domestic production is protected in Hungary, in Austria, in all EU countries, in Slovenia, there is no protection in Croatia, because someone would have to welcome certain civil duties in the EU through Croatia. Someone would have to be President of the European Council. Well, what worries me is what Plenkovic's gonna be, what I'm worried about is what I'm gonna be. We are the people's representatives who must defend the Croatian village, which we do not defend. The Ministry of Agriculture is also the largest pest for the Croatian village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Tugomir Majdak, will now speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96228	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, respected parliamentary representatives, here, after six hours of exhaustive debate on the proposal of the Agriculture Act, I have nothing but to thank you all for the quality of the debate, in that part, concerning the bill proposal, but also in that part, which you touched, and the other laws that this government passed, but also strategies, which unfortunately, did not welcome this government or the agriculture ministry. And despite the fact that there was no strategy, we started making laws, which are for the benefit of Croatian farmers and Croatian villages. So I will repeat the Agriculture Act, first of all harmonize 12 EU regulations that have not been in the current law, it was passed in 2015, it contained at that time 8 laws. I don't think we talked about these eight laws at the same level. So even after the implementation took place, the Ministry of Agriculture noticed some difficulties in implementation and therefore joined the improvement of the law and we have a proposal for a new law. It also introduced certain improvements in new concepts in the area of agriculture,... It is definitely a place in the Agriculture Act, after which the prevention of waste from food, but also in part, as some representatives mentioned, the definition of quality labels, has been simplified and accelerated, so far we have 19 products and Croatia has not said its last letter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are opportunities to further improve and play in the common market. Yes, it is a common market, and we have said ours, when we have joined and thus we have set ourselves up to this common market and we need to find models within the legislative legislation, to improve our lives for our farmers and we are doing so. If there are any cases, that some countries are breaking this part of the common market, feel free to tell us and provide examples of the agriculture ministry, we will report this to the European Commission on the basis of this information. As for our laws that we have passed, and these were special laws, the Law on Agricultural Land, today there have been many questions about it, the 20th consent of the ministry has been issued to the units of local self-government and will soon begin the implementation of this law, so within a very short period of time since the law was passed in the past 5 months. to the very possibility of implementation for those units of local self-government that were efficient, fast and quality in the design of their available programmes, will already make it possible to make available to state agricultural land. The current law, the previous law offered the possibility in a centralized system and has defined only 14,000 hectares since the planned million hectares. Of course, this law in this decentralised way will allow for far greater transit and will increase the total number of agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia. But to allow the OPGs and cattlemen by priority, which we have defined easier access to agricultural land owned by Croatia also to young farmers. As regards the OPG law here, we are in part and in line with the OPG Act by defining the concept of self-sustaining agricultural economy, this does not mean that this part of the farmer is not treated in a way that has been neglected as it has been mentioned here, but they can also exercise the right to State support and can market their products. We have determined that that social category of the OPG Act means to separate from the market-oriented one, and at this point we will deliver to the Croatian agricultural chamber a list of those farmers who meet this censorship, it is more than 70,000 farmers who will have the status of the OPG in the future, based on a specific law, the OPG Act. The law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the minister mentioned a joint agricultural institution of farmers and, in accordance with that law, it will represent the interests of our farmers both of those mandatory and voluntary at national level, but also of EU levels, especially as regards negotiations on a new common agricultural policy package, which will be available from 1 June to the Member States under the three proposals of the Regulation, means it is not active at this time, the objectives are also discussed at this point, so this law cannot contain those objectives, we can only seek, which today and the debate has shown to those objectives which are now being discussed, which will be on the agenda as part of the new Regulations of 2021, and the proposals will go to 2020. Here, it also means a few words on direct payments, so that part in the transitional period of 10 years, in line with the possibilities of the Croatian budget, we increased from 78% from 2013 to 2015 to 83% of the national share, meaning in the work direct payment, national envelopes and this year in November will be the first advance for production 2018. As far as the strategy is concerned, a lot of words here, it has given some way and a feature of this debate when we discussed, when we discussed the proposal of the Agriculture Act, I will repeat it once more here, and this is the minister pointed out, it would be far more quality if we had been welcomed by strategies regardless of all these laws we passed without strategy, but next week at the Ministry of Agriculture will sign an agreement to start a strategy for a long-term period with the world's best experts and the development of a strategy moving at the level of this ministry and this government. Here is the end of education, which is mentioned legitimate concerns about the agronomic profession, we have Croatia's agronomic chamber since 2016, and the ministry is now in line with the status of Croatia's agronomic chamber with the leadership of Croatia's agronomic chamber to define public powers, to improve the position of the agronomic profession in the future and to take the place it deserves. Here's another thank you to everyone for today's debate, we're open to the ministry and we'll work on the well-being of agriculture and farmers, and we'll certainly respect all your comments, and by the second reading we'll install those quality ones in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96229	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the secretary of state who referred to the question whether others, therefore, can be bought by citizens of other EU member states, for example. in Hungary, because that was the case in some club discussions and I think some incorrect information. As far as I know, Hungary, for example. citizens of other member states can buy and physically, except that they have some special measures, so they have some special obligations, they have to process that country, they have to live there, it does not, of course, prevent Croatia from doing so in such a way as to arrange it for a period that would have occurred after 2023, so that is at least the information with which I handle it. Of course, we can also see from other Member States how they have done and apply this to our national legislation, but as far as EU rules are concerned, they are the same for all EU members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96231	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96232	Thank you, Mr. Majdak. I was talking about how to depopulate the village, so it is necessary to form one team, a Brain Storming team that would continuously work on raising the village to a higher level, to get over 50% as it is in the EU, until we can come up with these measures that would allow us to move forward, the whole of the Republic cannot go forward without these measures because it is also a demographic measure. With a growing village above 50%, the population in the Republic of Croatia will certainly grow. How to do this, I don't know, I can't advise you, but you are the ones who have to come up with this long-term policy that won't last 5 years, but that will last 10, 20, 30 years and that we will reach advanced EU countries because advanced EU countries are those countries that have a high-level village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96233	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96234	Proposal for a Agriculture Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 4016. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly the proposal of the Agriculture Act and the second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 78 with 14 abstentions and 11 votes against it has come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96235	We will now move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 408 The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposed under Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Minister of Economy Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96236	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and respected parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act in the first reading and allow me to propose a draft and present to you in short lines. Two reasons are to prepare or need the preparation of this proposal. First, this bill will bring full compliance with the EU's Directive on unfair business practice. Secondly, the application of the applicable law pointed to the need for improvement and several provisions. So here's to a few short cartoons that we've promoted. Indeed, the applicable consumer protection law for traders is a mandatory rule of emphasis on regular prices and reduced prices during special sales, such as seasonal reductions, action sales or the like. However, the European Commission has drawn attention to the need for a clearer regulation by the Consumer Protection Act that the mandatory emphasis on the regular price and the reduced prices relate exclusively to sales within the business space does not apply to advertising. This would result in full compliance with the provisions of the Unfair Business Practices Directive, removing the possibility of harm and EU law and thus initiating a court case against the Republic of Croatia. This means that the trader can or does not have to highlight the regular and reduced price of advertising, sales outside of business space, distance sales and in cases where... the sales form lasts less than 3 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to increase transparency in decision making relating to consumer rights, the provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act are also prescribed for the establishment of advisory bodies in public authorities and units of local and regional self-government. These advisory bodies shall decide on the rights and obligations of consumers in particular with regard to the determination of the terms of sale and the prices of certain public services and among the members are representatives of the Consumer Protection Associations. However, the application of these provisions creates difficulties in determining which public authorities have an obligation to set up such advisory bodies. Since such arrangements included an extremely large number of public authorities which do not make decisions in their work in relation to the rights of consumers of public services, it is necessary to define more precisely the bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services. Following this, since the Law on Local and Areaal, the Regional Self-Government has prescribed that consumer protection operations in the self-government area of local self-government units are proposed by this legislative proposal to only implement the establishment of advisory bodies in local self-government units, namely cities and municipalities that decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services defined by the Consumer Protection Act. The relevant law also provides for the obligation to be representatives of consumer protection associations in these advisory bodies as well as in the advertising committees of public service providers. In order for consumers, public service users to be better informed, it is proposed that consumer protection organisations publish on their websites a list of units of local self-government and a list of traders, public service providers whose advisory bodies, i.e. commissions, are involved by their representatives. To the same end, it is also proposed that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce publish on their web pages a list of advertising committees involving representatives of consumer protection associations established in these chambers for certain activities carried out by traders with up to 5 employees. Furthermore, in accordance with public procurements conducted by the competent ministry of the Consumer Protection Association, consumers shall carry out project advice from consumers co-financed by State budget funds. Within the framework of consumer consultation projects, 20 thousand advice is provided at year level from different areas such as electronic communications, financial services, public services, contractual relations and the like. This is just saying that consumers themselves have recognised the importance of such counselling. We know that the area of consumer protection is extremely complex and multidisciplinary. In addition, changes in consumer rights at European level have been very common. However, in order to ensure the highest quality of consumer advice, this bill proposes passing exams for consumers from consumer protection organisations carrying out consulting activities under co-financed projects under the state budget. In the e-consultation procedures, we have received proposals from individual associations for consumer protection. A large part of these proposals were adopted, which the proposer felt would contribute to improving the very text of the law. A significant part of the proposal concerns the provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act, which are in line with the EU acquis, which the applicant could not adopt because such changes would result in infringements of EU law and thereby initiating proceedings against the Republic of Croatia. However, during 2016 and 2017, the European Commission carried out an analysis of EU legislation in the field of consumer protection resulting in amendments to several applicable rules. In April of this year, a new consumer package of measures was proposed, i.e. a package covering proposal 4 of the existing Directive. The Directive on unfair contractual provisions, the Price Highlighting Directive, the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and the Consumer Rights Directive. The new consumer package also includes a proposal for a directive on joint suits for the protection of consumer collective interests and repealing Directive No. 22 of 2009 namely, it is a proposal for a directive which will regulate the procedures that authorised bodies for the protection of consumers of Member States will be able to require, in addition to the initiation of the collective consumer protection process, the imposition of measures against traders who have caused a breach of consumer rights by their illegal activities. The measures relate to compensation for damages, repairs, replacements, price reductions, termination of contracts or total repayment of the amount paid. The proposal for a directive will simplify and speed up the compensation procedure in cases of infringement of the rights of a large number of consumers in relation to existing legal legislation, thus raising the level of protection of the rights of all EU consumers and consumers from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Public dialogue on the topic of the new consumer package, the European Commission is implementing with all Member States and is planning the same in the Republic of Croatia at the end of October this year. I note that the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, in cooperation with all stakeholders, is constantly working to improve the protection of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia and thus will continue in the future and all with a view to achieving a high European standard of consumer rights. Following all of this, we propose the adoption of amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act and as soon as possible its full application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96237	Thank you very much. We have a long line of replicas. The first is the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96238	Thank you. Dear Minister, we have a formal well-being all regulated but we do not have a systematic solution. We have the fact that we have passed a large collective process that credit institutions have been convicted of unfair contractual provisions, but now it remains for consumers to go into such judicial proceedings on their own, and that 125 000 in private lawsuits receive their overpaid amounts. Such a condition is unacceptable. Advanced EU countries solve such things systematically, I will only tell you an example of Austria that has dealt with this systematically. Germany's example of how it has dealt with this systematically in similar situations, but there is not much time, so I will not talk about it, but during the debate on behalf of the club, and I will point out the shortcomings individually and I will propose between the two readings what should be further prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96239	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96240	Thank you very much. Minister, we're out of control. Of course, all the directives we prescribe, this or that, we need to know that this means regulation on the protection of EU consumers, it is our obligation to implement this, but consumers really are protected in Croatia regardless of the regulation we have, just like in Osijek, which are mosquitoes. When they're being poisoned. There are so many consumers protected. The mosquitoes in Osijek are more protected. And we have numerous examples of that, and I'll talk about it when it's on behalf of the club. So it's not enough Ministers, just copying regulations, EU directives. Mostly consumers are not protected or the law adheres to consumers. Komars are more protected when poisoned in Osijek than consumers. So much, but I'll explain it when there's a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96241	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I have one specific question that bothers Croatian consumers when it comes to teleoperate and in fact a company that sells extended telepacks, we have a case that consumers bought packages of extended sports TV packages that included the Champions League. They signed contracts with that particular house and during the contract, that particular house lost its right to the Champions League, they are now watching cricket. Do they have the right to break the contract with that house without a penalty, so since they paid an extended package to watch the Champions League? It's like taking a car with an extended equipment, paying a neat loan or lying, and someone in the middle of that contract takes away the air conditioning or ABS and you have to keep paying for that extended package.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96243	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96244	Well, here's what I'm not going to take for granted to give myself any answers until I see a contract based on which this service was negotiated, a fellow assistant wrote the problem down, and I'm going to try to give you a written answer in the next 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96245	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96246	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister Horvat with his associates, here's how much I've collected here is about some 7 directives and more and now my question specifically if you allow for Article 73. I know that these provisions have been taken over from the European Parliament and the Council directive, but my particular question is how much we have the opportunity to act on our own here on this matter, here is quite often, as well as some members of both my family and the neighborhood, and it is often a problem that a certain part of the citizens are being brought into a situation that extends their contract without them knowing it themselves and that they can't break that contract, it's so-called. One-sided termination of the contract, that's one problem that needs to be solved. However, when I read in this law then, it says that the regulation of the provisions by a Member State is prohibited and would imply the initiation of a infringement of the law against the Republic of Croatia. Just let the vice president finish the sentence, I know there are several directives under way, but what can we do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96247	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96248	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. And you yourself said in the beginning that this area is actually a protection of consumers extremely complex, interdisciplinaryly and actually could be through colleagues and what they ask as a question in replicas could be cited a few questions of unfair practice with telecommunications operators, we actually got into Croatian consumer protection associations certain memos, I guess all colleagues. With some things, I would agree with this Croatian Consumer Protection Association and what Mr. Alexic is saying and expressing as a skeptic, so it is good to adopt this law because, in fact, the EU's policy through these directives, which are proposed in unfair practice here, about distance trade and similar things, will actually enable all of us as consumers, because we are consumers and we belong to one market of 500 million people and the Croatian market cannot be excluded as such, and in fact, all the examples we will hear now would be good until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96249	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96250	Thank you. So something similar to this question we have received from the Ministry as a request from the Consumer Protection Association, we have answered about 16 pages of A4 formats, so fellow assistants will, in the next few days, provide the answer in the photocopy to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96251	The next replica of the respected representatives of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96252	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. In the last 10 years, much has been done in the area of consumer protection, so I think that this measure of passing an expert examination for those who give advice when implementing the Consumer Protection Act is also progressing in this direction. Since you have narrowed this obligation with public authorities only to units of local self-government, the establishment of advisory bodies that decide and the price, among other things, which is delivered, determines for services supplied to consumers, what about other public bodies that decide the same things, and are not within the jurisdiction of local self-government units? Does that mean they have no such obligation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96253	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96254	So you're not just gonna be at this point with the associations and... Other bodies work in this educational, preventive and other methods, so we have, through consultation through which consumers can and receive information, but to educate themselves in what kind of information they can even ask for and what profits they can make one research which, I must admit, has given us this many devastating results in what sense in the consumer community there is even an interest in what they can do, what they do and what they might actually gain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we came up with a sample of 1,000 subjects that only 29% experienced one of their rights violations, and 63% of those 29% solved their problem when they realized what they could do. So they're only 17% familiar with their rights, and 35% don't want to communicate at all, and they don't want to know what rights they have, what rights they have. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96255	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96256	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I am very glad to have recognized the Consumer Protection Association in consumer protection because, as my colleague Alexic mentioned, they were really in many things pioneers who in some ways led through their actions and improved the legislative framework and strengthened consumer protection, especially in some segments of the economy. However, when you mentioned, I am very glad that they now play an important role through these advisory bodies, etc. But here I certainly think you should be careful. We know that the legal framework for the establishment of associations in Croatia is very flexible, that associations are generally quite easy to set up and I think that it should consider that there may be further assumptions as to when the association can meet the conditions for being a consumer protection association, to represent their interests, such as the length of existence, the number of members etc. In order to achieve even more quality of their protection, when we are already giving them this additional role through these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96257	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Answer? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96258	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Another important topic ahead of us, consumers. As we can see, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Croatian Assembly of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Consumer Protection Act primarily to comply with European legislation in the area of consumer protection, but also to prepare specifically for the measures that should be followed under this Act. The current Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2014 and had one amendment in 2015. These amendments and additions other than compliance with EU legislation introduce certain amendments to the current law. We are all consumers and it is therefore important for the provisions relating to the conditions of sale that the trader is required to be clearly, visibly and legibly highlighted in the business premises, and that he is obliged to comply with them. When we talk about special sales forms, and we know that, under this, the sales of products and services are understood at prices lower than the prices in regular sales, the legislator has now made it clear, and all with a view to harmonising with the Directive on unfair business practice, that the obligation to highlight the price of those regular and reduced prices refers exclusively to sales within business premises until it relates to advertising. Vice President, we can do a little bit of this...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96259	Dear gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to disturb my fellow Shipic as he speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96260	Reading the comments from the public consultation, we can see that many associations criticise that both prices, regular and reduced, do not stand out in advertising. However, such an EC opinion is that this definition and compliance with Directive 2005 does not, in fact, substantially alter the existing arrangements but only clearly regulates the exception of the trader's obligation to highlight both the regular price and the price during the duration of the special form of sales. Certainly, until the second reading, especially until the final adoption, we should consider and respect part of the proposal, and the minister himself said that a good part of the proposal has already been agreed, which have a standstill and a foothold in concrete examples of practice. I believe that the proposer will accept what is life and what will help people who meet every day with the potential hidden intentions of someone who offers and sells something to consumers. Furthermore, the law in force requires the establishment of advisory bodies in units of local and regional regional self-government and public authorities which decide on consumer rights and obligations. However, it has been shown in practice that it is necessary to define more precisely which bodies decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services. Article 25 of these amendments and additions now stipulates that units of local self-government which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services are obliged to establish an advisory body and make decisions in a transparent, objective and non-discriminatory manner, while traders providing public services are obliged to establish a consumer advertising commission. The Associations will, as we have heard, have their representatives in both bodies and in one body, and it is prescribed that the Association should publish on its websites the list of units of local self-government and the list of traders established by the bodies provided for in this Act. In practice, this means that we who are mayors and mayors will meet with this obligation, for example. when we give and when we give consent to the price list of public services, the collection of mixed municipal waste, biodegradable municipal waste or separate collection of waste. Since the Act on Alternative Dispute Resolution is in force, these amendments stipulate that the consumer can initiate a procedure to resolve disputes against traders before an alternative dispute settlement body while in the current Law this concerned the extrajudicial settlement of consumer disputes before courts of honor and peace centres. We ourselves are aware of the importance of consumer protection associations and we know how much their activities and actions show that they are equal stakeholders in the implementation of consumer protection policy. In relation to consumer protection organisations, it should be stressed that their fundamental role is to fight for a fair market and for social and economic justice for consumers, to help build a consumer protection system, and to care for the voice of consumers at local, regional and global level. The Consumer Protection Act recognises consumer protection associations as an important player in the implementation of consumer protection policy by regulating their activities and actions. The legislator has now made it possible for those persons who are authorised to represent associations to use the activities of these same associations, not to use them for private, business or any other interest. In order to highlight the importance of consumer advice, the proposal for an amendment to the Law brings another novelty. We know that consumer protection counselling centres financed from the Croatian budget operate in the Republic and provide their advisory services from various areas – trade, telecommunications, finance, tourism, etc. This year, i.e. Last year, for example, Split-Dalmatia County, the Split Consumer Protection Council gave advice to nearly 5,000, and almost 20 thousand tips were provided in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the complexity of the issues we are talking about and the various amendments to the Law on Areas, their actions are now required to pass an expert examination, for persons who publish consulting tasks, and all with a view to obtaining a quality fit, which will best be introduced to the consumer with its rights and obligations. Legal amendments also touched on inspection controls, market inspectors, in the part where the inspector temporarily prohibits the sale of the product and the provision of services until irregularities have been removed, i.e. the article here complements the above mentioned amendments, as well as the Article. 138, which refers to infringements. There's a whole series of breaking points. With all these amendments, we will fully comply with European legislation in the area of consumer protection policy. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, HDZ will support in the first reading of the proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act wishing that if there is any proposal, which I mentioned further, which would encourage an even better relationship with all of us, so to speak, because we are all consumers, take that into account, and I have no doubt about it at all. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96261	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Šipic, for the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96262	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Consumer protection law, one of the most important laws in the Republic of Croatia, we are all consumers, all here as many as we are. However, this consumer protection is only formal from us, when it comes to institutions called the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Just formal. We made it possible to form, but we didn't allow systematic protection. I will try to point out the shortcomings and these shortcomings I will suggest that the corrections through the additions of these changes between the two readings, today during the debate I will suggest what needs to be further changed, perhaps not specifically but in general, where these shortcomings are and what should be done to remove them. The first important thing I would like to warn about is the question of collective consumer protection. The collective protection of consumers is also prescribed by the Consumer Protection Act and the Criminal Procedure Act. The main lack of these provisions is a way of determining the authorities who can launch a collective court dispute. This was left to the Ministry of Economy's authority, which proposes to the government of the Republic of Croatia's authorised prosecutor, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided that some association is an authorised prosecutor. That way is not transparent enough, because it allows the Ministry of Economy to decide on the basis of some of its unwritten rules on who it is who can sue and who it is who can't sue. I'll give you an example, Franak Association, please don't hesitate there, Franak Association, is an association that launched the first collective court dispute and Franak Association has received this collective court dispute completely. She's not a formal prosecutor, but Franak's content association is a prosecutor. The Franak Association, however, has agreed on its knees, this is not enough, because banks are convicted, collectively, that they have negotiated unfairly and therefore the Neighbourhood Contracting Provisions and on the CCF currency clause and on a variable interest rate, but that does not mean anything until each individual consumer has initiated its own court private dispute and on the basis of the private dispute takes its own money. How many problems did Franak have with the lawsuit I will explain later, but first I would warn the Minister of Economy of his predecessor, Mrs Dalic, who did not allow Franak to enter the list of authorised prosecutors, after all what Franak did for consumers and for 125 thousand families in the Republic of Croatia, 125 thousand in the Republic of Croatia was covered by a collective court ruling. After Franak won the process, first part of the interest rate, and now the second part, former Minister Dalic, felt that such an association could not be authorised by the prosecutor, imagine. The association that won, in a collective court dispute, 8 major Croatian banks cannot be an authorised prosecutor. The reasons are because he is not a member of some group of associations because then each association could feel that he is an authorised prosecutor and so on. Those excuses, I'll say they're nonsense. Why? Those excuses are nonsense because of the next very simple fact, I ask you, which is a fool, an individual, an association, anyone, that will go into court proceedings that cost several hundred thousand, and maybe millions of kn, which fool will risk such a procedure and lose all rights without being right? So, to say that this could then be caused by some tsunami of some associations that want to sue is a ridiculous reason. That's just not true. Plus this Directive 2009/22 which speaks of this collective protection, it does not restrict access to collective court proceedings to anyone, it says it is national legislation. So there is no limit to EU law which would limit the right of some association to sue on behalf of a consumer group, if there is any legal interest. So here I appeal to the Ministry of Economy first that the next time I receive an application from the Franak Association to put the Franak Association on the list in a motion for a decision that will allow it to be an authorised prosecutor, then put it on the proposal and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes that decision because there is no reason not to do so. Secondly, I will try to propose additions to the Consumer Protection Act in such a way that it is prescribed in a different way than is now prescribed, that it should not be left to the arbitration of any minister, the arbitration of any official in the ministry, whose arbitration is based on facts, on transparent facts. For example. Why wouldn't an authorised prosecutor be that association that has at least 100,000 kuna in its account? Wouldn't that be some kind of justifiable reason for someone to be an authorised prosecutor? I think you would. Or if the process costs 10 thousand kuna, enough to have 20 thousand kuna for some of its needs and more for the process. So the money should be, that money the association has for a particular process, it should be one of the arguments that this association has the right to launch collective litigation. Another argument could be some result of that association in the past where it may have already done something like that and the Franak Association has done it very successfully. The process ended with eight banks in a full claim. I'm going to propose some of these criteria, I'm going to suggest that it works the other way. And since we were in 2011 when we started the process, it was just as interesting, you don't know it, but I have to tell you because it's very important that you know what kind of problems a team of people who need to appear in court and sue a certain trader for being unfair about what problems these people are facing. We who negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause, the currency clause began to rage and we met and we agreed that we would try to solve this problem. How? First we'll try it through the trial, second we'll try to act on the institutions to recognize the problem and solve it. And we know in 2015, the Croatian Parliament, through the SDP government, where Minister Lalovac was the main actor, partially solved the problem. It would never have been solved if it hadn't been for the Franak Association and its institutional action towards the institutions. And the third way, the third way was raising people's awareness of the problem. I have a problem raising people's awareness of the problem of those, for example. that negotiated the euro and the kuna loans. I've been talking here for two years, and otherwise I've been saying it on the air for 5 years as a member of the Franak Association and 7 years, in fact, I've been a member of the Franak 7 years, but for the last 5 years I've been talking a lot about it and for 2 years here in the Croatian Parliament, I'm talking about the fact that people who have negotiated the euro and kuna loans have also agreed on a variable interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision and which is therefore unfair and therefore they have no right to return their overpaid money. It's only gotten to the ears maybe 1% of people who have that problem. When they see me, they say Swiss. And if the state reacted differently, if the state were to react differently then it wouldn't have happened, then it would have been systematically resolved. We let banks know that several billion kunas of Croatian citizens' money have in their hands and that they have it and it does not belong to them because they simply took it from people with unfair contractual provisions. So that didn't happen to people's ears. And when we started that first court dispute, when we filed a lawsuit, like the Franak Association, that lawsuit was dropped. And why was she rejected? For reasons I said earlier, the Franak Association is not an authorised prosecutor. And we were still inexperienced at the time, the lawyer who represented us was also inexperienced, didn't read the final provisions of the law saying that no one could sue but that it had to be an authorised prosecutor and we were rejected that lawsuit and we were in trouble, which is now. And then I took the law, started studying it a little deeper and came to the conclusion that there were certain authorised prosecutors. One of these authorised prosecutors was the Union of Consumer Protection Associations, the consumer. And we went to them for a conversation and the consumer agreed to sue for us and in return we will monitor the process by paying the costs, the infrastructure, we will solve who will be the witnesses, we will write the lawsuit, we will give all the professional support necessary for this trial. And we did it all. We followed the process both professionally and provided witnesses for the process and paid the cost of the process. The costs of the process totalled over 300 thousand kunas to Franak Association, over 600 thousand kunas. And none of it was taken from the Republic of Croatia's budget and none of it was returned to Franak. Why? Because I have to say despite the fact that the High Court of Commerce verdict was awesome, the banks are convicted but in one part that verdict is very cowardly. Which part? It's in the cost section. We've lost only one small part of the verdict. And that small part says that banks still have to convert the contracts that exist in francs into kunas at the starting rate and at the initial interest rate. Turn into kunas at the starting rate and with an initial interest rate and these contracts are no longer available. And the court dismissed that part of the verdict. And because he rejected that small part of the verdict that doesn't mean anything at this point, and that large part of the verdict that means, in my judgments, 15 billion kunas of money that banks have to pay back to the debtors if they all go to court, because of that little act of judgment we lost, it's decided that each side pays its own expense. And the Franak Association has agreed with the consumer that they will pay 50% of the cost. And that's what lawyers are familiar with. And they charged 50% of the court fee. Total court costs in the form of fees and legal costs, Franak was costing more than 300,000 kuna, which is the money of members of Franak’s association which they paid over the years and which was paid to the Court’s accounts and to the accounts of the Republic of Croatia’s budget and to the accounts of lawyers representing the consumer in court sport. I'll say that part of the verdict is cowardly, but unfortunately that's how it happened, and that's how it had to be. But the problem is, the Franak Association had to investigate how to sue and have a legal interest. In that sense, I will propose between the two readings of the amendment that this authorised prosecutor be prescribed in a different way and I think the Slovenians have it prescribed differently, I think the Slovenians have it prescribed in a way that it is a legal person who has enough resources to sue. We do not have the right to do so in the EU, and so I appeal to the Ministry of Economy to accept my proposals, perhaps not in that form in which I propose, let it be changed in one quality way and let it be accepted because I really do not see the point that the association that won the bank does not have the right to be an authorised prosecutor and we wanted another collectively sad to raise against the banks and the exit fees. We already have a legal case-law that's 5, 6 years old that those fees that the banks agreed to close off loans were illegal, illegal, and because of this nothing but collectively solved it, but only some individuals who went to court got these disputes and the banks had to make money for them. Here is how much I would like to say now in the introduction, and in an individual debate, I will say a few more things that I would like to point out and which I think should be added to the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96263	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96264	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with their assistants, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing one of the most important laws which is essentially a framework that should protect the rights of consumers of all meanings of people, of all of us, of all those who, of course, were to be protected in this law. As a matter of fact, a complete European regulation on this issue has been transposed here. the issues which are to be regulated by this law shall be highlighted by the proposer of a more precise arrangement of certain institutes which have so far been inaccurately arranged. And particularly about these advisory bodies, which are before the bodies, means advisers who are advisory bodies who consult these bodies with public authorities that decide on the rights and obligations of consumers, are also proposed to limit obligations, so the delegation of obligations to local self-government bodies is proposed. So this law also proposes to regulate consumer consultation activities. Here we have certain measures which are essentially regulated by the European Consumer Protection Directives, but here is a colleague, Alexic, looking back on a problem that is very visible and these are loans in francs from Switzerland, so on. Swiss people, where we have even judgments on the integrity and illegality of these interest rates individually, but the fact that it has not been resolved in common, that each individual has to be particularly protected by the consumer, the question of whether he has the means to raise the penalty or not, so that the state has left, has given priority essentially to the banks in this case. Therefore, all individuals for various reasons will not be compensated because they will not be able to initiate the court resolution procedure. I think that in this direction, as counterpart Alexic said, that this would be a good solution not only for banks, otherwise banks are in a much more favourable position in Croatia than in other EU countries, so they come, those only 4 billion kuna fees and commissions, that fellow Lalovac will know better, 4 billion kuna banks are commissions and interest-free fees coming out of Croatia, not Croatia, not interest, but commissions and fees, so that they should not be allowed to benefit from these franc charges because of the value and illegality in determining these interest. There we should somehow you as a proposer, we all look together for a solution to be at least equal to the right is all simply that that credit will not be able to be raised for a variety of reasons, to seek a procedure, to initiate a procedure to seek its own means so that this collective protection of consumers in certain solutions such as Swiss, should try to find a solution so that you can all be compensated and not that each individual must individually seek this procedure. So here, we are proposed that units of local self-government will form their own bodies, which means some kind of decentralisation of consumer protection, means involving associations in this part, but how do we do that, here we talk about banks when they're protected by teletele operators? So by this law, how is that going to be implemented that's a question of all the questions? So far, we've had a law that was supposed to protect consumers, and it wasn't really protecting consumers. We have tele operators acting in Croatia as if this is the wild west, and so they do not behave in the country where they come from, Sweden, Germany or in charge, and therefore they have the highest profit in Croatia. The largest profit per capita of telephony is in Croatia. Because here they have no obligation to pay the right of service or other obligations, they set up antenna pillars and base stations without building permits so that they have no costs, they target children's kindergartens, and consumers are not exactly protected as they are in Germany because there simply all these regulations voted in parliament are respected, there is no consumer protection in us. We have legal mechanisms that we are going to implement in this law, all of which are properly copied, copied, beautifully implemented to the letter, but we don't have as much protection as they have in implementation, in infrastructure, we simply don't have, we can't put ourselves together on a local self-government burden to take over all that initiative when we simply know that the state is centralized, whether they have enough resources for these bodies,... No one's gonna do it for free. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have little and no clarity here, you have one measure as if the obligation to pass an expert examination for persons who perform consumer counselling services is based on a public tender for which funds are secured in the state budget. This means that another activity is too crazy, but other than what you have proposed, the proposal is unclear because it provides that the obligation to pass an expert examination is to have associations or legal natural persons who consult. But how will the associations take place? I can't have associations. You wrote here that you have an obligation of the association to take professional exams, I can take physical persons, but I can't associations, so it should be better worked out and I don't know if this supplement and the higher cost and how from the budget this measure, think carefully, we'll give our suggestions when it's in the second reading, yeah, we'll give, but I think this provision isn't the best. So we have here offered this alternative, means agreements, alternatives to procedures themselves, some arrangements, possibilities, that's all well, but I don't know whether it's just copied enough or not, the same situation in Croatia or Austria, and said fellow Alexic, I can talk about teleopers, we can talk about banks, we can talk about savings credit cooperatives, and even the law proposed by fellow Shkybola does not apply to foreign cooperatives, savings, it is not applied because it simply calls other judges not to vote under the law that this parliament has adopted on the protection of people who are excavated by foreign credit associations. So we have this problem. Even my colleague Škibola told me that many people were complaining to him, and here I was also called that the simple judges did not respect that law that we passed because at this point it was important that Plenkovic had a majority, that the President of the Parliament would vote the future, probably Prime Minister Jandrokovic, he had that ambition, and that's okay. But you can't just vote in parliament to get a majority that we have Jandrokovic for parliament and then a fellow Scybola that this proposal that the judges don't respect, and you can check it means the law on the protection of people we voted on, people who were damaged, those savings credit cooperatives from Austria, most of which half of the island bought, nicked people together in cooperation with public notaries, it's one procedure where people were nicked, where they were taken away from their property, they simply didn't respect the courts, and we passed the law, this Parliament, but at that point it was very important to bring it in because fellow Scyboli was the important hand to vote for the majority and that we had President of Mr. Jandrokovic's Parliament. Therefore, both banks and teleopers and illegal cameras and teleopers do not work in their own countries, according to their consumers where they come from as they work in the Republic of Croatia. That's why the economic system and the economic system are down, because that's how much money you get from banks 4 billion kuna out of these fees, and the commission is a disaster, and I don't know if you have as a ministry and as a minister deciding whether it's going to be the majority, do you have the power to publicly say that you're going to end it? Although it's not yours, we're entering the Ministry of Finance a little bit, but that 4 billion kuna banks are taking our commissions and fees, and they're sucking it out of the Republic of Croatia. So since the last 15 years, one budget has been sucked out, and they have not invested in Croatia and, of course, they invest their profits in their countries. So we here must have courage, consumer protection, you intend to implement these laws, but it is not the same relationship in Croatia with consumers as it is with Germany. That's a fact. It's a matter of implementation and here are some things that we need to protect collectively, which is a question that, for example, Swiss francs, interest rates and loans that were, we just have to protect people collectively, if it's declared in some court procedure individually, that it's harmful, that it's a worthless and illegal interest and that they need to get the banks back with the corresponding interest, we have nothing. So the state there should have an element not to let banks rob and draw money from all people, not to expect individuals to sue for it themselves. In the end, I would only say that the consumer in Croatia, I said earlier, is a more protected mosquito in Slavonia and Osijek, but I could say in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, we know that the nest in the Mosquitoe of mosquitoes than the consumer in the Republic of Croatia. Consumers are not as valued in Croatia as in the EU, they are not protected in implementation, so in reality, in life, I am not speaking now in the law, which we have now signed and we will bring it here. However, we, with our conditions as we live, with our characteristics as the Republic of Croatia, have to protect consumers. Because we can't say, we're inside the EU. Here's fellow Skiboli, he'll confirm whether his colleagues or his law which he proposed to protect people, which, applied, are well applied but the judges say we won't do so... So your law was noble, but at that point, he was but the fact that he avoided applying it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They call me people, and you show me what's in the justice system. So in us are not the people who are, the law is good and noble. But the fact that it does not apply, in most cases it does not apply and it is a disaster. To make this Parliament a law, and at this point it was much more important to remember what I'm telling you, your intention is good and I'm glad I was with these people, I failed to do it, but you did it. But the fact that it was much more important for them to be President of the Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic than your law. I guarantee it, but you will see it soon, because the implementation of this law is not in the protection of consumers, i.e. people who have been robbed, who will never get rid of those loans that are foreign... It's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why a few are that small changes but in the second reading, if we can and we're going to give amendments, I think we need to regulate some relationships in a different way, we need to protect everything, not just individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96265	Thank you, dear colleague Miri Bulju, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Marin Škibola, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96266	He's been injured. 238. I'd just like to add one thing, what Mr. Bulj said isn't entirely true, the law is applied we have over 150 delays in detachments, inferno contracts, but the fact is that some judges avoid the application of that law. They cannot avoid it absolutely, and then they send it to more instance, to the European Court, to the Constitutional Court and thus want to undermine it. That's only because of the public I had to cause a public injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96267	Dear Mr. Schibola, as regards the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I understand your misunderstanding, or your disagreement, but my colleague Bulj has the right to express his opinion and his view of a particular problem and I do not see any breach of the Rules of Procedure. So please don't abuse that institute. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Honored counterparts Erimina Lekaj Prlaskaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96268	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Today, we have a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. As regards the establishment of advisory bodies in local self-government units, I believe that this proposal goes towards a further improved consumer protection policy and an active role of the unit of local and regional self-government. It is necessary to strengthen local and regional self-government in the key to implementing this policy, in particular in the implementation of consumer consultation activities, since in practice the implementation of the same problem faced certain difficulties in relation to the extent of its application and in the field of the identification of public authorities which have an obligation to set up advisory bodies. I must also specify that there is no detailed description of the role of the advisory body and no description of who will provide room for advisory bodies and other fees to be received by representatives of the advisory bodies. In order to increase transparency in advisory bodies, as well as in the advertising committees of public service providers, I believe that representatives of consumer protection associations must also be involved, and in order to increase consumer information. These are proposed that consumer protection associations as independent bodies are carried out on their websites a list of units of local self-government and a list of traders whose advisory bodies, i.e. their representatives, participate. As for the role of consumer protection associations, we know that their path and struggle to create a fair market is both social and economic justice for their consumers. However, the practice with the representatives of the Consumer Protection Association has not been in favour of the representatives of the associations or has not provided them with sufficient space for the activities and participation in committees, commercial societies and units of local self-government, where they could take care and be the voice of consumers as independent and impartial bodies. The law also requires the mandatory emphasis on the regular price and the reduction of the price, where it is stressed that the obligation to highlight the two prices refers exclusively to sales within the business premises and does not apply to advertising. But we should take into account and note, how traders have repeatedly complained about the difficulty of mandatory two prices in cases where special sales forms last a shorter period of time. Such a provision has proved to be difficult to implement in practice. For example, when it comes to a special form of sales that starts in a certain part of the day and lasts only a few hours. The obligation to highlight two prices to traders is an obstacle to meeting the legal obligation in question, in particular when there is a large number of products in the trade. In this respect, it is proposed that the obligation to highlight two prices does not apply to situations where special sales forms last for a maximum period of 3 days. This means that each trader in the sales space will be obliged to continue to highlight the regular price and price during a special form of sale, unless such a form of sale takes place within a very short period of time or up to a maximum of 3 days. You also stressed provisions on unfair business practice where a general obligation is prescribed for all traders to conduct their business to consumers fairly. As far as unfair business practices are concerned, it can be both misleading and aggressive with the ability to be passive and active. As an illustration, I will give you some examples of this practice. In the first case, I can say that we have cases where the consumer receives a notice from the NN trader who informs him that he has won a reward of 10 thousand kuna and should take his prize within a certain time limit. However, when the consumer contacts the trader, he receives notice that the notice is only an ad. Instead of rewarding, the consumer gets advice to buy certain products after which he will participate in the prize game. We also have a practice when the consumer bought a certain magazine about photography and left the trader his address to receive a notice of all news about the area, but in the meantime, the consumer starts to get news about other magazines that do not refer to the same things. So that's where we have the same thing, also getting e-mails from bidders where consumers, where their rights have been abolished by consumers. We also need to take account of the scope of these provisions which are limited only to the protection of consumers' economic interests because these provisions do not regulate the issue of other non-economic interests of consumers. Furthermore, other than the need to enable consumers not to receive promotional notices via telephone and messages if they do not want to practice it, they also show that consumers need to be protected when they contract services via telephone. In fact, consumers are very often unaware of the fact that communication with a trader via a telephone related to a particular service has led to a contract being concluded, but this becomes known when the service is provided to them or when an account is issued to them. This proposal to amend the law makes it more clear that the timing of the contract is made by telephone, which I particularly support. In situations where the consumer buys certain products that prove to be incorrect, he often has a dilemma about how in the fastest, easiest and most impoverished way to exercise his rights and get the right thing. News articles on a number of websites and even by authorised persons appear to be confusing information on how to act when the consumer finds that the product he bought is incorrect. There is often also the identification of responsibilities for material disadvantages and guarantees. Although it is indeed legal institutions that have many similarities and often complement situations where both institutions apply can differ significantly. I note how I have noticed when Croatian consumers in their complaints highlight the failure of the product, especially electronic devices, and when objecting to services, they are the most representative of electronic communications. In conclusion, I would like to point out that on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, reformists and independent representatives, we will support a proposal from the Proposer which aims to further improve consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, improve the legal framework for the implementation of consumer protection policy activities and policies to monitor the identification of control mechanisms, ensure good business practices and transparency, provide accurate and up-to-date information to consumers. However, I hope that in this debate I have managed to point out that there are also some provisions that need to be complemented by the EU acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96269	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lecay Smack. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleagues Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96270	Thank you very much. So this law speaks of six key points where some changes and additions are introduced. In principle, I'd say there are two fundamental problems or questions. First, this law is treated as harmonising Croatian legislation with the EU Directive. That's part of it and it's not part of it. So, in part, one part of the regulatory new that is being introduced here is an autonomous Croatian regulation and it is not regulated by any way at the level of the European Union and other difficulties related to consultation with the interested public, or in this case, I would say consultation with the informed public, because it is seen from the comments of the associations that are currently dealing with consumer rights and consumer protection, that they are very dissatisfied with the fact that their observations or suggestions or their participation in working groups that have discussed and finally appeared with this amendment and supplementation proposal, it seems, in fact, in no way taken into account by their reactions, that I will return to it at the end, and I would ask the Minister for some clarifications, because in one case, it is even warning of the possibility of penalising financial, therefore not being taken into account by the European institutions in accordance with the rules of the European directives. Therefore, the Law prescribes, as a number of speakers have already said, the first way in which traders behave when it comes to special sales, reductions, therefore situations where special opportunities or favourable opportunities for the purchase of certain products at reduced prices and rules which apply thereon, hence the fact that both the original price and the reduced price must be published. The second element relating to this same problem and clarification regarding the need to do so, these two prices only point out when it comes to intra-business sales, therefore not to what is outside or at certain specific fairs and not to advertising. Therefore, when advertising, these two prices do not have to be amounted or stated. That's, say, the second element, that clarification that this law introduces. It is then more precisely defined by bodies which decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services. It is proposed to set up advisory bodies in local self-government units only for those who decide on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services defined by the Consumer Protection Act. The fourth element is arranged for consumer protection organisations to publish on their websites a list of units of local self-government and a list of traders whose advisory bodies or commissions are involved by their representatives. The fifth element is that the Law regulates the issues of independence and impartiality of people working in these places of representation or representation of consumer protection associations and working on consumer protection jobs. And the sixth element is that this proposal for a law prescribes the obligation to pass an expert examination for persons who carry out consumer counselling activities based on a public tender, as it is said, for which funds are secured from the state budget. At this point, the ministers would like to ask you for an explanation. Considering that rule or that newspaper that's being introduced. Therefore, whether persons who are required to participate in and participate in local self-government units in these consumer protection and counselling bodies will also be subject to a professional examination. Whether they will be required to pass a professional exam because I suppose this is also about State budget funds. But I'm sure you'll be able to explain that. Now, if there is one topic in which, to put it this way, the voice of the public or the voice of the consumer should be conditionally spoken or the voice of the user should be heard, then that must be the subject of consumer protection. However, the comments of the Croatian Consumer and Society Association, which also deals with this same business, states that as regards the Croatian Consumer Protection Association, they served as a ficus as I did, the Ministry of Economy is an alibi that consumers also participated in the group since their proposals and suggestions were not accepted. It's a general expression of general dissatisfaction. However, the consumer association or society states one, I would say a more concrete objection and say literally and now that the proposal for a law is contrary to the EU's general regulation on the protection of personal data, that several EU directives already implemented in Article are being violated. 3. The current Consumer Protection Act, and there are major conflicts with the provisions of the Association Act. And it is later said that this could ultimately result in penalties that Croatia would be forced to pay precisely for violating earlier European directives and some of the rules that we have already installed in Croatian legislation. I, of course, can't appreciate it because I don't have such detailed insight, but since it's a consumer association that deals with these issues, I would ask the minister to explain to us, or to comment on this fact, because if this is true, then this whole proposal that otherwise works is completely benign is counterproductive, so the opposite of what he says is that, and this is a harmonisation with EU directives, it brings us in line with one directive to conflict with other directives. I allow the Consumer Association to be wrong, but I think it would be important for the minister to explain what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96271	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is a very important law before us today, as my predecessors have said here. I will address one piece of my debate with regard to the law itself which I consider technically correct and then I will have a few questions that certainly in the Ministry of Economy, certainly until the second reading consider whether it would be a good idea for these proposals to be introduced in some future consumer protection law. So this legislative proposal brings the problem of consumer protection into line with the legal acquis of the EU, changes concern two areas such as defining the rules for granting discounts to traders and more precisely defining public authorities, units of local administrations and self-government that decide on consumer rights and obligations. Rules concerning the approval of discounts as well as special forms of sales, for example in the case of action sales, are laid down... and the sale, mainly in the case of the retail price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The specific national rules on specific sales forms, i.e. sales with benefits such as action sales and seasonal reductions, according to the European Commission, need to be made more clear in order to achieve full compliance with the Directive, and that actually seems to be the law. The second area of consumer protection in public services where it is proposed to set up advisory bodies in local self-government units which decides on the rights and obligations of consumers of public services, it is required that the advisory bodies mentioned above, as well as commercial advertising commissions, public service providers be representatives of consumer protection organisations in order to be transparent of these provisions, and in order for consumers to be informed by this proposal of the law, that consumer protection organisations publish on their websites a list of units of local self-government and a list of traders and... the advisory bodies, i.e. the commissions, shall be represented by their representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also proposed to regulate more precisely the issue of their independence and impartiality in such a way that persons authorised to represent associations, members of the body of associations or any other members of the association should not use the activities of the association to achieve private, business or other interest. Thus, the following draft law will fully comply with the Unfair Business Practices Directive and will improve the individual and material and infringement provisions of the applicable law to which the practice has been shown during the adoption of the present application. So as far as the technical part is concerned, we don't have any objections here, and in this part, the SDP club will support this part of the law. Here you said the introduction has about 58 questions, you said that you accepted most of them, there I counted only 5 accepted, so here I accept that in this previous communication you may have accepted a lot of it, but 5 out of 58, I say maybe it is concrete because you focused on the greatest work of compliance with the directive, but there are many of these remarks, so most of the Croatian Consumer Protection Association and other consumer societies are not accepted. I'm saying maybe it's a debate for someone, maybe it's some questions for another debate, another broad law because as we know every day, consumers are actually in communication when they use their services, they're facing a number of problems, and certainly this is one active, living law that I believe needs to be changed from time to time, and not just in view of the directives, so I hope that maybe in some future, you'll accept a bigger part of it than is mentioned here at least. However, what I would particularly like to ask you, there was also a debate with the HDZ colleagues, and it was about these citizens' debts and we actually saw that there was a certain shortage when the CNB, according to its specific regulations, allowed the sale of claims to Croatian citizens on the market. Now, that's what I'd like to ask you all to discuss here a little bit. Why? Because there are more than 20 billion kunas on the market today of the amount of resold claims from Croatian citizens and now the question is being raised as consumers because they used a certain service, whether it was a bank service, whether it was a service from a teleoperator, whether it was some service of those that were actually under this law that defined them you have on the market somewhere 20 and a few billion kunas and those consumers that are traded in that debt, here all the clubs have found that no one is watching it. You know what the CNB said? They cleaned it out of banks, bank balances, and he says it's no longer our question. The government is saying, in this part we supported and when the government passed that part of the law where these citizens have been unblocked, however, the question has been raised that these HANFAs are not supervised, the CNB is now asking how you can trade, because this is now a large market, a debt market for Croatian citizens, so I ask one question that you might see in the future whether we should put them in some law, that at least those debts that they trade, trade them with different traders in these debts, that we put them under some kind of regulation if it's not the CNB, because those companies that buy out those debts might be put under HNFA, whether we might put them under another regulator and it would be good for those citizens whose debts are being resold on the market, so now they hear that they've sold their debt by 20%, he's still 80 percent. So they trade and ultimately give information to those others. Look, all of a sudden, I don't know how it's possible. And we know that this GDPR Directive where you can't just give information to others who have sold these debts suddenly call you some other debt resellers and says that you don't owe me anymore but you owe some others, to those d.o.o.s who are founded, what we said about, as companies and are not regulated by either the CNB or the HANFA and it is some form of financial claims or claims by telecoms. So it would, and since this is about the Consumer Protection Act and it's about a large amount. We said the government was able to unblock that part for a while. We'll see what the effect will be, something's written off, something's gone into some kind of reprogramme. I'm afraid that if he doesn't get rid of that part, he'll come back as a boomerang to the government. I'm saying, I think here, that it's certainly not some government responsibility, it's mostly bankers, these all who resold those debts on the market so they don't mix with those citizens' debts. I think it's very dangerous when it's not under anyone's control. And it would be good if those agencies that came to buy these claims in the Republic of Croatia and we see that there are a lot of foreign agencies that bought claims from Croatian citizens to put them under some regulation. Maybe I'm saying that you think about this Consumer Protection Act, because I don't know what other laws you should put them under, maybe, under HANFA, and that you know under what conditions some debt can be sold, maybe at what price, is the question of how, what is the bank's cost-effectiveness to sell, I don't know someone's 20% debt, and I don't offer the same debt to the main debtor. To the main debtor. So I have to admit that if those debts were made by the banks, and we know that, you see from the CNB reports, they've sold over 20 billion kuna over the last few years. If these debts were offered to the citizens themselves to buy them for their debt, to buy 20, 30 or 40% I believe that they would buy it. Then what are they doing? This 20% debt is being sold to some kind of Norwegian fund, I don't know, some B2 capital or what they're called, and they still owe this 80%, they have no idea they actually resell that claim and then they're in some kind of, uh, more difficult problems. And you know what the CNB will tell you? It's all legal. And they actually did, they let it get cleaned up. But what did they do? They haven't solved the problem. They're just a problem from the bank balance that was, so-called. These NPLs that were on the bank's balance sheet put him on the market and are no longer under anyone's supervision, according to no one's financial reports, according to no one's regulation. And then the citizens, the question of their protection as a consumer, as the user of some service as we know that our kind of, I don't know, you owe 2, 3 wars, you don't even know that you owe or don't get any notices, you find yourself on the market where someone's trading our claims, and suddenly you think you owe one institution, suddenly you're called by some 10th institution and says you're no longer obliged to do that, and now you owe it to me. Well, I think that would be good, if I told the joint forces, and I see that all the club MPs are when it comes to blocked citizens being supported and that part of the market for this uncontrolled debt in the Republic should be put under control, so it can be negotiated with the HANFA or with some other person to regulate it because unfortunately the only thing that blooms in Croatia today is unfortunately the debt market. We can ignore it, but actually the fact that when you see the debt market and resale it is certain that these consumers will again, here we are talking about consumer protection, will draw a thicker end. That's why, Minister, once again, I say, we support the law, think about this. I say it was one consensus of all clubs, and if you find some framework that we can put into this law, or if you suggest something, it might be in some other law, but it would certainly be a good idea for the government to manage this debt more easily, to know that someone is controlling it and that it does not leave it to various traders who come to Croatia to buy property, to buy debts from Croatian citizens who only actually make a difference in price. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96273	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96274	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's the thing about this law or the bill of law that's now in the first reading, I'd like to talk about something that's the least regulated so far and it's the fastest growing area. But before I go to that part that I think is most controversial, what is evident is that the main objective of consumer protection, of course, should be to achieve the standards of Croatia that some countries have that are in these standards more. I think a few areas that are very important, in some areas we're better off standing, in some areas we're worse off. Where we do not stand best are standards of consumer protection that are not as high as in some other countries, this is the first disputed area and the second disputed area is effective market surveillance. These are, in my opinion, the two most controversial areas that are partly covered by this law. As regards other areas of consumer interest, information, education, information, therefore procedures for resolving consumer disputes and alternative and those legitimate and normal which are not alternative, so we stand here better. As for the Internet and it is a line of trade, we are not very good at standing there and that is the area where the whole EU is looking for the best model, and that is actually the fastest growing sector that is actually so dynamic and is growing so fast that it is almost hard to control it. And what is important is that consumers should feel safe, not only when they buy the usual route, but when you buy online, and sometimes, Croatian consumers do not feel safe when buying online, because there are certain problems related to certain parameters. According to that so-called. the consumer traffic light, which is the translation from the eng. To measure the consumer's confidence index, we grow better every year for 10 years. But we're still pretty low, even though we've been growing for the last 10 years. And now the question is, how is it possible that Croatian legislation is in the area of consumer protection? It is in full compliance with all European directives, and in some cases consumers continue to complain that they are failing to exercise their rights. And we're wondering now for a reason so where's that weak spot, let's go detect it. Sometimes this weakness is from all of this I have read insufficient information when it comes to consumers. But if we talk on the other hand, about the other side, which, therefore, which are not consumers, we have here there may be a failure of inspection as a reason, there may be a failure of some resolute body, there may be no law enforcement on the ground, which may also be one of the problems listed. And now we have that information since 2016, so it checks the state of effectiveness, which actually checks out, how effective national legislation is on the ground, it's so-called. This refit, i.e. 2015 and turns out to be the most controversial area for me, and what is directly related to what I do, therefore, with information. It turns out that Croatian customers are not treated equally if they buy online, as buyers in EU member states in certain countries and not in all segments. For example. If we want to buy goods or products via the Internet, we from Croatia will be faced with some limited ones. First we'll be faced with a price difference. Then we can be faced with different terms of sale. Then we can be faced with too high a price compared to some neighbouring countries and even, let's say, Slovenia. And then we'll be faced with what's called the so-called. Geographical blocking and these are all really forms of discrimination, we as a consumer in Croatia if we buy online, compared to, say, consumers in Slovenia. Now we have to ask ourselves some questions, so we are a member of the EU, as is Slovenia, such as France, Germany and not to list all members, so why do some other rules apply to Croatia compared to other countries. It's not a direct area governed by this law. I'm aware of that. However, this law is so multidisciplinary that it must open this area. And I believe that, very quickly, this area will open up, because if we follow these directives, and we've heard that 5 is currently being audited, 7 is here, so that's something that we have to be very very prepared to do and actually already start working. I know that the European Commission is taking action and that by 2021 it is committed to being a single digital market, that all member states are at least more equal, if they are not equal yet, but we are not exactly standing there, as far as our online customers are concerned. And now the situation is happening, so we can actively complain and say, we have certain instances, because no one instead of us and every country is primarily fighting for itself, right, and then we're all a member of the EU together, and that's clear. However, there is a situation, to say, if we from Croatia want to order a service, not a service, in particular, order a child product, it can be a toy, a plastic, an electric device from China. We get that product by mail to home address. However, even without any marking, without any checking, neatly written in Chinese letters. And now God forbid we give it to the child that plastic. We know that cases have been proven where and in children's food any carcinogenic substances, so so that it won't be in a plastic or something like that, so we give that child, the child plays with it, I don't know how to put it in his mouth, etc. ends up in Klaic. How do you regulate that? There are several ways and several models, but I'm interested, so what's going to happen. I say the powers of national inspection bodies have been proposed by some in the EU to block some international sites, a trader, if he violates consumer rights, but they have said this is left to national legislation, to show proactiveness in this regard. So it's about product safety and it's a challenge for the whole EU. And what's specific to us, we have a pretty good whole system informed. So we have a consumer website.hr. which is in your ministry. So we've got two departments at the Ministry dealing with consumer protection and that so-called "supervised" European Consumer Centre, which belongs to what I am talking about. We also have that central information system since 2008 and so on. which is updated, therefore, we have all this together but things that I have now stated are still happening and still not clear is we have enough capacity to have this inspector working in the economy ministry, that he is truly sufficiently educated to oversee online trade, and that was one of the issues in the debate that was being held in the EU on the subject. And now we have to ask another question, and that's what I think is very important, and there's just so much time left, it's the famous strengths, so this is one set of problems, which I see really needs to be arranged really, really, that it didn't go there now in this first reading, and the other are the famous reductions where it happens, and that was one of the remarks here I saw that the sellers are increasing the price before the beginning of the decrease, so to increase the price by 30%, and then it's officially lower by 20%, and you finally have a product that's actually 10% more expensive and he's on the downfall. So that's hypothetical now, that could be 50 and 20 and 30, but we understand what this is about, and I'm saying it was one of the remarks. This is regulated by Article 33, but I don't understand it, I admit, I've read multiple times and comments and answer, I see that then this directive is the same in the revision, but what about how many inspectors actually, as far as they can, I don't know, here, so if you're going to have a chance to answer that question and I believe that between the two readings, there's going to be a lot more to be done. Otherwise, the intensity is very good and I support the introduction of order in this area even though this is a really complex area and other than the Ministry of Economy includes both finance and health and agriculture and the environment almost complete, and HACOM and I am not counting any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96275	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96276	Thank you. My colleagues Irena, you see, we need, we should, but you had a chance, you still have a chance to solve the problem of illegal margins that were collectively ruled illegal, this year the Supreme Court confirmed in March that they were illegal, the HDZ in July 2017 promised with the signing of the HDZ Secretary-General that this problem would be resolved, but my law was rejected after I received 78 signatures of support that this law would be passed. Why does HDZ allow, because you are responsible for this, allowing banks to take Croatian citizens to illegal margins that are up to 50 and even 100% larger than those that should be based on initial contractual provisions? Why HDZ allows banks to drive Croatian citizens directly, that's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96277	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Answer, colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96278	Thank you. Dear fellow Alexic, I don't know why HDZ. Because when you say that, it sounds as general as if it's a one-of-a-kind-of-a-kind-of-a-kind-of-a-kind-of-a-kind body that doesn't have people sitting here and thinking in a way. So HDZ is not a single-cell organism. And I don't experience it in a way that the HDZ prevents it but it's a question completely legitimate, I can tell you my own personal opinion that even matches probably in a good work with your opinion but why the Resort Ministry or Resort Minister or someone third, the National Bank, governor, I don't know the answer because I'm not in their place. If I were the Secretary of Finance, maybe you'd do something different, maybe you wouldn't. I don't know, but I can't speak for someone else. And that question I believe that sooner or later you will get an answer from that instance you need to get from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96279	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96280	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will continue with ideas that should be complemented by the Consumer Protection Act, so the next very important thing is a systematic solution to the compensation of Croatian citizens after collectively determining that their rights are being violated in some part. We have a collective court ruling, that collective court ruling was legally established, firstly in 2014 for 7 banks and then in 2018, in June for all 8 banks, that they agreed on an unfair change in interest rate which is changed by the decision of the bank and that they agreed on an unfair currency clause CHF because they did not warn the debtors of all risks, because they did not warn them that the currency clause CHF is not part of the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia, that the CNB protects the exchange rate against the euro rate, however, does not protect the exchange rate of kuna against CHF, that the CHF currency to which the capital runs during the crisis is the capital, all of which is the reason that this currency clause CHF is declared in the court dispute is harmful and this is very good and because of the arbitration in Washington. So we have a power of judgment, that is EU law, the EU right has established because the EU's Croatian law is the right to have loans with the CHF's currency clause at least partially harmless. At least. Or maybe they're completely worthless. And banks in Washington run arbitration against Croatia. I hope that people representing the Republic of Washington will do well to represent the Republic of Washington, although I believe that some people who have done so in the professional ranks of Franak would do so far better because they have it all in their small finger, but unfortunately they are not set up for the representation of the Republic of Croatia, but this is another topic, I am going back to the topic I started and this is the topic of systematic compensation of Croatian citizens damaged on the basis of unfair contractual provisions and what has been previously established by some collective court dispute. In particular, we now have one completed collective court dispute, I said what was settled and now, based on this collective court dispute, 150,000 debtors have the right to sue banks and get a complete difference of rates, a complete difference of interest and a corresponding tightened interest. It is about 10 to 15 billion kunas that banks must return to Croatian citizens but only if all these Croatian citizens who are damaged are sued by private banks. Why should they go to court if it is possible to resolve it systematically? And it's quite possible to solve it systematically. Therefore, it is necessary to provide for predetermined provisions in the Consumer Protection Act itself which would establish that the legislator can react systematically on the basis of the established case-law and adopt a systematic solution that will make it impossible for all citizens who are damaged in collective terms to be compensated. That's not impossible. The EU right, it allows us, the EU does not prohibit us from doing so, however. Directive 93/13 currently states that if certain contractual provisions are found to be unfair, everything must be returned to the original state and restitution should therefore be carried out, to return to the people what should be returned to them. Now, if we're going to do it, if we're going to have the courage to do it, I'm afraid we won't. The minister is watching his cell phone right now, and he doesn't care what I'm saying, what I'm saying. He told me in time that he supported what I was doing while he was here in the benches. But I'm afraid it was just a form and it was just said just enough to say, but it really wasn't. And I don't think that's really true. Many of us in the halls say that they will support an idea, but when it comes to supporting the idea in practice, then the idea is not supported because we are party soldiers, first of all, and only afterwards are we public workers. We should serve the public. And in order to serve the public, we must serve the laws of the Republic of Croatia in which everything is prescribed formally. But it's formally one thing, and it's practically the other. One problem is compensation. I will re-propose a law that will determine how all debtors will be compensated for damages in the case of francs. I will propose this law on the day when the case law will be fully established. In the meantime, I will propose that the Consumer Protection Act provides for certain provisions on the basis of which it will be possible to prepare such solutions in advance. Now, will that be accepted, I don't know. It's another thing. I have already said, HDZ promised in July 2017 to address the problem of the unfair and illegal fixed interest margins that banks have arbitraryly defined. I, too, was told from the HDZ ranks before that promise was made on how the court should do so. However, I later proved that it was not a judicial business. All the judges of the Supreme Court with whom I spoke on the subject said very simply. We have found that these contractual provisions are unfair and worthless, but we cannot determine how these contractual provisions should be read. Only a legislator can do that. So that's the job of the legislator. The government of the Republic of Croatia should propose, and a legislator called the Croatian Parliament should make a solution for illegal margins. Now it's even much simpler than it was before because these margins are now illegal only in euro and kuna loans. I'll suggest that solution again. But this solution is a little different than it used to be. I'm going to suggest that this be done on the basis of those credit conditions that are worth this year. Therefore, on the basis of market conditions for this year. I can say informally that the CNB has a relatively positive opinion on this. I hope this could be resolved, but it is only possible if HDZ approaches the solution to this problem. Don't get out of the store. You expect me to join HDZ at least technically and vote for all your laws. He can't. We're not here to trade, we're here to work in the public interest. The public interest is to respect the collective court ruling, to end the illegal behaviour of Croatian banks, to deprive Croatian citizens who are damaged by the illegal behaviour of Croatian banks, and that is that. It's very simple. We have a case-law, we already have 32 judicial verdicts on the basis of which money was paid to Croatian citizens, so there is a case law for interest. Soon we will have defined court practice for the currency part and all can be settled. And margins and damages. The next topic that I find interesting and will also propose some legal supplements in the Consumer Protection Act that might improve that consumer protection, which is what needs to be changed first in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I think we should form a Consumer Protection Committee. The economy ministry responsible for consumer protection is insufficient. The Committee on the Economy is insufficient. The Consumer Protection Committee in the Croatian Assembly is needed. The Consumer Protection Committee exists in the europarliament. The European Parliament has a consumer protection committee. Why shouldn't the Croatian Parliament have a Consumer Protection Committee that deals exclusively with topics in the area. It's not a small area, it's a huge area. I, of course, deal with the illegal behaviour of Croatian banks, credit institutions, but it's all about trade. The merchants are very many and the banks are merchants, but the merchants are all the other ones who sell their products. And that protection of consumers can be raised to a higher level if we have a Consumer Protection Committee in the Croatian Assembly to discuss this more often. Public action would probably then come more to the ears of those responsible, who are in charge and I believe that then we would have a much better solution to live in practice, and not just a letter on paper. Because in our case, it's often a problem to solve something very well formally, but then in practice we don't, and then what should be the result of these formal solutions doesn't happen. And the result of formal solutions in the area of consumer protection should be consumer protection there in those areas where they are damaged. Here, so much for me, and between the two readings I'm going to suggest some of those supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96281	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic, for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96282	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Aleksic, you said the EU court has made a decision that contracts in Swiss francs are partially harmless. We know that the final decision of the Supreme Court on the case of the Swiss franc said that these partially unscathed Swiss franc contracts are caused by corrupt contracts in the Swiss francs cause de facto damage to all contracts in full. I'd like you to tell me a little bit more about it and a lot of people are asking for antiquity in Swiss francs, which means whether there's antiquity in the case of a Swiss franc or not, and that's what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96283	I thank you for the replica. Answer, fellow Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96284	In one minute. As such, no contracts have been announced to the corrupt, the High Court of Commerce and not the Supreme Court has decided that unfair contractual provisions in the CCF currency clause and at a variable interest rate, and only in the private court proceedings can the integrity of the contract be proved. As far as you're from age, there are no outdated claims at this time, but there will be no limitation of interest claims for 7 convicted banks from 2014 on June 13th 2019. Zastar's claims for the currency clause for all 8 banks will take place in 2023, the outdated claims for the currency clause and the interest rate for Sberbank will take place in 2023. However, despite the fact that the outdated performance of the 13 June 2019 will take place for these 7 banks, despite the fact that, if sued afterwards, the last 5 years of payments can be made, however, it is not God-knows-what. The EU court has also not decided that contracts are harmful but has decided that the national court must behave when it determines the integrity of certain unfair contractual provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96285	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Marin Skibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96286	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. Here we have today on the table of the proposal for a supplement of the Consumer Protection Act. In today's times it's very difficult to protect consumers, we know how many citizens are exposed to various marketing schemes, I would say even in the domain... means that these marketing plots are going to a continuous repetition of di false claims becoming true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In all of this, the most important thing is to protect children, we know that for marketing purposes they manipulate children, their feelings, and in various other ways to exploit children for the purpose of dirty profit. Please tell me that if you can, I know it's very difficult to regulate, but I think it's very important that children are not used for marketing purposes, that they are not manipulated by their feelings and thus creating a dirty profit that is more and more pronounced today. The Consumer Protection Act provides certain protections but today there are many products in the sale that are very harmful to health and regardless of what there are indications on these products, I don't know E1, E2, ingredients etc., but the problem is that citizens are uninformed that these ingredients mean at all, what E1, what E2 means, and I believe that in this context, more information needs to be given to citizens through certain emissions such as the Consumer Code, but it needs to be dedicated more and more because citizens are uninformed and there are increasingly significant ingredients that are very harmful. Often the problems arise in the business of teleoperators, so teleopers make contracts in a telephone way and then when these contracts are needed, for example, when the consumer wants to break the contract, then he is in a more inferior position because he has to send different requests, go from this office to that office, and that's where bureaucracy stops him, but when a contract is to be concluded then there's no problem, in a simple way over the phone these contracts are made. Lately, however, the corporations have found new maneuvers and ways to avoid such practice and then put on door handles from the front door, means flats hanging advertising material and thus actually endangering the safety of citizens because you allow robbers to follow if someone is not there, for a long time has not come home, gone on some road and this advertising material has been standing on the lock for a long time and see that these others have moved all this advertising material and that the advertising material has not been moved at a certain door and it is simply a sign that the person does not have a longer time at home and then we give them the opportunity to easily rob the citizens. I think that's quite a problem and that if it can be regulated somehow by the Consumer Protection Act, please, I would like, in any case, to be able to make a joint amendment or in any way regulate it, not to put advertising materials on locks from the house door. So that's inadmissible and that's what corporations do, and here's a picture of it, so I'll show you the first chance. Corporations also often announce these action prices, etc. and then they actually say there will be some product on action that day and when you go to the mall then they say that the product doesn't actually have it, so they haven't got it yet and there are manipulations where they draw citizens with some action prices and then they say the products aren't in that and that branch, so when you go to another branch then they say we only get three products or four products, so it's one practice from the experience that I've experienced, and what citizens experience, means I don't know how hard it is to regulate, but in any case it needs to be more controlled and sent inspection surveillance for the different and action offers of corporations where they re-manipulate and lead citizens to come, and at the end of those products there isn't. Another thing to say about providing financial services, we see that the Republic of Croatia was eldorado for these illegal financial services, Mr. Alexic was talking about the Swiss franc and that's true what he's saying, indeed Swiss francs, i.e. the contracts with the Swiss francs were illegal because, the methodology was illegal, so it was not shown to consumers, and on the other hand you know that I proposed in the Croatian Parliament the law on the futility of the loan agreement where we had illegal cooperatives that also operated illegally, giving financial services illegally through intermediaries who did not pay taxes. Politics allowed it at the time, politics allowed it and today feel the tentacles within the system, since I am informed about these cases, I am referred to the fact that the law applies, but certain judges who may be connected to these interesting lobbies because there were public notebooks, lawyers, etc. They try to avoid the law and then send it, use even the European acquis where they send previous decisions to the European court, manipulate them in different ways because judges are often given that space to decide what they want, but when some laws are clear, they are decoded and when they are closed, they are used in such ways to send the law to a higher instance and they do not want to implement it. In the context of this debate, I think there is plenty of room to protect consumers, and now it is all a question of how much political will you are willing to learn more in detail in certain segments to protect Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96287	Thanks to my fellow Skiboli, we have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a fellow Scybola I'm glad you mentioned child manipulation and that in... There are practices, unfortunately, but that's what we have in our policy, too, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've had situations where the leaders of some political parties enter without permission to go to school, take pictures with students and use it for their own personal promotion. So I agree with you that you should take special care in the context of children, be careful not to take advantage of them and take care of their well-being, but I say, it should be extended to everything and certainly stick to the law. If you go to school you should first ask for school approval and so on. Just to prevent abuses like you mentioned, among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96289	Thank you. The answer of my fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96290	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Sokol thank you for this replica, I believe that you were also thinking of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović who also goes to schools and works for promotions so that the fact is that Mr. Pernar also had these acrobatics in schools, but in any case it should not be forgotten that HDZ political officials also serve similar methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96291	Thank you, fellow Skiboli. I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to return to the topic, and the subject is the bill on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, which does not speak in any way about the tours of educational institutions and educational institutions. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96292	Dear colleague, you were talking about protecting children for promiscuous purposes, I will not talk about party leaders who took pictures towards schools, but the truth is that we in the Croatian Parliament have party leaders who go away with their children and take pictures and in some way, and we can say manipulate their own children to get political points, so please comment on that fact as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96293	Thank you very much. The answer of my fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96294	Thank you, Vice President. As much as you asked me not to talk about manipulating the children of certain political officials, I see that I keep getting these questions, so I have to answer that. So I agree with you, I don't think it's a good practice, I've mentioned practice where corporations manipulate children's feelings, but the fact is that they manipulate children and for political purposes, in any case institutions need to publicly judge such actions and act when such things happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96295	Thank you, fellow Skiboli. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96296	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear fellow Schibol. One part of your debate is, however, the domain of the prosecutor's office for children, and with the other part, I agree with both works, but it does not belong to this problem of good work. But what I wanted to say was that this is the first reading, until the second reading should really consider all the comments and I expect the Resort Ministry to do what I most spoke about, so the differences in price and conditions and geographical blocking for online trade. Here's the information I just got from Resort Minister Horvat to go to the government next Thursday, and that's what the Department of Trade and the Internal Market says, and that's the draft bill that would regulate exactly what I was talking about, so here's what I have to say is that I'm glad that finally Croatia will take a step forward to prevent this geographical blockage of ours and not be among those countries that have worse conditions when they order online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96297	I thank my colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Come in, Mr. Schibol's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96298	Thank you, Representative Vuksanovic, here's thank you for your constructive criticism. I also hope that the government will be in the mood for some of our remarks, that it will respect them, so that, as part of the ruling majority, you can still help a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96299	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96300	Thank you. Comrade Shkybol, you mentioned this situation where the court asked to answer the previous issue in the EU court. I'll tell you that despite what looks so bad to you, it's not bad. Why isn't it bad? Look, this is the situation. According to the EU, the law of the final court instance is, for example, The county court, and sometimes the Supreme Court, at the request of any party participating in the process, must submit a request for a preliminary response to the previous issue of the EU court, must. So the last court case has to do it. This is where the first court case, the municipal court, requested it. It's not bad, you'll find out what the EU court thinks about it sooner. This would be known later because it would be mandatory later, but my opinion is that the EU court will reject it because the EU court does not mainly decide on national legislation. I believe that the EU court will reject it and then you will have a completely clean situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96301	I thank my colleague Alexic. Answer me, fellow Scybola, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96302	Thank you. Dear Mr. Alexic, I can agree with you in part. However, we have mostly talked about that municipal judge who has applied for a previous decision, the problem is that she, for example, we believe that she is even in a certain conflict of interest and issues of motive are being raised. So every judge has the right to ask a preliminary question to the European Court of Justice. But if the motives are true, we know that the law that I have proposed in the Croatian Parliament helps Croatian citizens, those who are the most vulnerable, those who have been hit by these financial creditors and lenders, and then I see no reason why some municipal judge would send the Law to the European Court of Justice when there are so many bad laws in the Republic of Croatia that are at the expense of Croatian citizens, so no one sends them to the European Court for a preliminary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96303	I'd like to thank my fellow Skiboli for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. The esteemed colleague, Rechimer Varda, is gone. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This law is very important for all consumers. So all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I am sorry that we are no longer in this House to discuss this Law, we would certainly all give some kind of insight that would be very important and important because the topic is really important, the topic that is here, all the colleagues who are opening these issues have essentially said problems, and the regulation that we, as a framework, protect consumers... from the EU directive, it simply does not meet the current conditions and criteria of life where we are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's different in Germany, it's different in Croatia, so it's quite different. The questions that want to be settled by this law are acceptable. However, what is applicable? What is a colleague of Lalovac, Alexic, all who spoke essentially warned about the huge problems of consumers. From the buy-in for 20% of the many companies that no one regulates, no one knows what they're doing, from the CNB to the agency, the HANFA, irrelevantly, no one controls these companies that buy debts from teleopers or I don't know who not all of them. So, people remain consumers owe as much as they owe, and they buy 20%. There's racketeering, there's people's name, there's people being pressured about their problems in which they're west. Therefore, I believe that this Law and banks are bad for consumers. That's what my colleague Alexic described well. So, there's no collage... meaning the worthless and illegal interest that's been judged, we've got decisions, we just have to sue every single person. Now imagine how many people won't be able to sue and the banks will have a profit, that money will remain with them. From a variety of different inheritances, someone is going to die, so we here simply benefit from banks that draw huge money, huge money from a colleague of Cellic's. I see you're listening very carefully. So 4 billion per commission... They're pulling our fees, no interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially these illegal ones we have on the subject of an ex-Switzerland or Swiss. Without that, without interest, four billion kunas a year get us banks out and that money goes away, who knows where to invest. Not in Croatia. And here we have evidence, facts, judgments where the law is, where this one, where banks illegally interest, interest on people, I don't know what to say, interest rates. And we don't protect this law. So that's where the ministry should have this proposal that counterpart Alexic said, so collectively it's being transferred, that individual, if somewhere it's proven to be an illegal Swiss or something, we have nothing to discuss. Because it's impossible, in reality, it's never gonna happen that all those who have raised the Swiss franc will be able to initiate a lawsuit procedure with these. It's just impossible. And people have suffered huge damages, they won't make their interest, families are torn apart. After all, it is, if something is illegal – it is a robbery. So in Croatia, legally, banks were robbed legally, and we're not talking about illegal institutions. Also, as far as the teleoperator is concerned. The largest profits are made in the Republic of Croatia and all debts are transferred to established companies in Norway, as said names or to any other not under the financial control system, financial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, or the CNB, or any other. They just all wash their hands, and they take the debts out, sell the debts to teleopers, I don't know who. So it can be in Croatia, but it cannot be in other EU countries. It's interest, it's called at night people, neighbors, parents calling, calling everything for those debts. So how can they sell that debt that way with all the data and the ones that are protected numbers... How it works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I repeat, the regulations that we bring and which we prescribe from the EU, which are likely to apply in the EU, in Croatia are inapplicable. That's why it's inapplicable, because it's not going to be used, because these lobbies are so strong, it's simply not for the minister to do it. What are they gonna do, teleopers, what our government is going to do is get the president of HT, I'm going to tell him... where he will pay true service in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the biggest winning teleoperate is in the Republic of Croatia. Why do they need a building permit for base stations? There's a Mrs. Tena at the diameter she connects it to HT, like... I think so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a second, it all fits together, gets rid of whatever e-consumption was, which was inside, because they have to pay for the right of service. ... In the morning, there was a meeting with HT President and the diameter, there was no proposal that was accepted in this consultation, and which the ministry accepted on the board, there was no proposal, because they paid the teleoperate service right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's gone, erased. But in Germany, they pay the right to serve. Any private, any public land, property. Also base stations, they place Athens pillars on cultural goods. Here go to the Klis you'll see the Athenian pillar,... 20 m of course they do, but they don't have to invest, as they have to in infrastructure, they don't need a building permit and they get lobbys, someone throws money in their pocket, kindergartens, schools, whatever the radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, we even have at the Croatian Association... Croatian Association for the Protection of Cars of Agent radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a lot of trouble. Of course politics will say no. But we've blown it all up in the government, right in anyone who's for the banking lobby, who's for the lobby I don't know, that's it. And it passes, an affair of SMS opens, and then it goes under the radar, and basically that's the money being milked, that's the money coming out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And there's no consumer protection. Because if we don't protect the public good, if the public goods don't pay the teleopers, they don't have obligations like they do in Germany, so they come or Sweden, there's no obligation. And then that public money is smaller in us is being paid for both education and health care and for plus citizens in this individual way. So all of this is taken from us. So it's not a protected citizen or a consumer as it is in Germany. Because it cannot have teleoperators in Croatia, the largest one in the EU, because it does not pay the same obligations as it does in Germany where it comes from. Well, at least if they stay in Croatia, they don't spread. Lipo is heard by Croatian telecoms, Croatian ones, Croatian ones. But it has absolutely nothing to do with Croatia. Not only does it mean they took in privatization what our fathers built the infrastructure, across our country, every cable was paid, every device, all of it was paid, digging, I know how it went. They privatized it to us, they became owners, they still charge us for the right of service. They don't pay us the right to serve. My colleague Bačić doesn't care about the right of service, but what matters is that Tena... Counselor, there because she connects it and sleeps it important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that our teleoperator was in traffic and they don't pay for any kunas. Because of the interesting lobbies, directly based on Andrej Plenkovic, here's what I'm saying. In the evening, we met with, so we had the Communication Act, and it was in the public consultation that it passed that the right to pay teleoperate service, not ownership, no property, but everyone who manages real estate or land was wiped out in the morning until he found himself in the evening with the head of the HT administration, and there's no such thing. We've been giving the amendment here. Why teleopers don't pay the rights of service to the local state and all these obligations of building permits like in Germany. Not only are they robbing us, but the public benefits don't pay, so it's a disaster. That's how we talk about this law and that's how to please teleopers, banks at the expense of citizens, and we're just looking, they can ask for the same behavior as in their own countries where it comes from. If it comes from Germany, if anyone behaves in Germany, if it comes from a Swedish teleoperator or a bank or if it doesn't matter if it acts like Sweden, nothing else, I wrote a letter to the Swedish ambassador. How is it possible that teleopers are here, coming from Sweden are acting this wildly in the Republic of Croatia? They're acting wild. Base stations set up wherever they can think of, without the consent of the neighbors. Without permission, but it's true and it's a fact. I am sorry that it is so, Minister, I hope that the time will mature, when the national interests will be protected, when the protection of each individual, and not the laws, will be passed which are inapplicable and when we bring them in, not only are they applied but they are strengthened stronger, in this case, as counterpart Alexic used to say, they strengthen and give priority to banks over those who have damaged, which are citizens of legal persons, natural and legal persons, who have raised loans in Swiss francs. That's what we need to sail on because we're changing it, protecting public well-being and every single person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96305	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, fellow MPs. Well, before I go, I'd just like to refer to something we discussed a few minutes ago about school, of course it's not the same if someone is invited by that school and the principal represents the institution as well as when someone comes willingly to the wild, as counterpart Bulj would say, and actually those children are used for day-to-day political purposes. But, well, I wouldn't get into it right now. I'd say a few things, actually a little bit would come back and say what it's even about protecting consumers, why there's something about the law itself that, as always, is the least talked about here. So, the basic economies, as we know, are contracts, so the contracts that we make every day, we don't even think about it, without which there wouldn't be any trade, there wouldn't be a trade in goods, there wouldn't be a market. Of course, the basis of contract law is the autonomy of party will. So each party willingly enters into a contractual relationship, unless he wants to, he doesn't have to and, of course, has to satisfy certain assumptions. So a person should have a legal and business capacity that is generally acquired by underage, given, means clearly manifesting his will to conclude a contract. And in that sense, of course, contracts are the cornerstone of the market as it exists today. However, on the other hand, there are special contracts in special categories, these are consumer contracts. Which is why they're specific. As counterpart Alexic repeatedly noted, consumer contracts are specific in that we actually have a imbalance between the negotiating position, the parties. So on the one hand, we have a consumer that is by the legal definition of the European regulation, the European rules of the person who concluded the contract and did not, so for some purpose that is not its professional, is not part of its professional activity. And in that sense, of course, that person is not an expert in the area for which the contract is concluded, that person does not have the same negotiating position, usually only has to accept the general conditions offered by other contracting parties such as the bank, simply not sufficiently informed to make a completely autonomous decision and is not at the same level as the other Contracting Party. And for this very reason, it is required of the other party in this case that, for example, banks inform that person properly so that it can manifest its will as it should and indeed make a decision in their own interest. So there's been a lot of talk about these consumer loans, I wouldn't get into it. It also mentioned the European Court of Justice's verdict. I would like to point out this, and I am sorry that there are no colleagues here, because it is important to note that consumer contracts and consumer protection are the EU product. As counterpart Alexic has repeatedly noted, it is the EU that has been since the 1980s since the first directives on the responsibility of manufacturers and sellers for... It is the thing that has developed this consumer law and which, through European law, has entered national legislation through a European aki communitre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is the EU court, and through this verdict, which was mentioned, played an extremely important role. As regards the judgment itself, it has been adopted which is important to point out in the procedure on the previous issue, meaning when the national court refers, it is referred to that the European Court and the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Justice have taken a decision concerning this particular case. In this particular judgment, the European Court of Justice said, in fact, that C26/13 was, among other things, what counterpart Alexic pointed out that banks in these cases did not adequately inform the other side, that the other parties did not know enough about the risks arising from the currency clause. But what matters is why it is not quite applicable erga omnes and why you cannot automatically deal with all such situations immediately by law. Because you did, and that's what the court said if you look at it, you said not only look at the text of the contract but look at all the information and communication between the bank and the party to determine whether the person was informed in the right way. And in individual cases you can determine, you can determine this, you have to determine this separately for each individual case. So that, of course, we can talk about interpretation here, I can quote to you later on that particular paragraph of that judgment. So it's hard to extrapolate these things in general. So that's one interpretation, I say, judgment can be interpreted in different ways. As far as this one is concerned, that's what I wanted to refer to in view of the whole debate. As far as this law is concerned, which was at least referred to by one essential provision concerning advertising. So in advertising, what the law prescribes and that is the implementation of the European directive is that two prices do not have to be highlighted in the reduction. So you don't have to point out the previous price and the lower price as usual. Now, why is that? It is therefore important to note that contracts can be concluded in an integrated and non-integral text. So the integral text of the contract is when you have one document, you sign it, etc., i.e. both sides immediately sign it, and that's that. However, the contract can also be concluded in non-integral text. So through an offer sent by one party and accepting the offer of the other party. What is important in the context of consumer protection is that public price exposure is considered such an offer. So that's legally important, it's legally important because if the other party accepts the offer, then this side, in this case, is the other party's buyer, then the more seller who made the offer cannot give up that offer. So he's tied to that offer. And that's why it's important for us all to realize that you make a contract every time and when, so every price exposure is actually an offer that you accept and then the employer means you can't sell it at some point because you can't say at some point I'm changing the price after you've already accepted that offer. But what matters is that advertising is not such a case. So advertising is also considered by our Law on Mandatory Relations not only by offering but by calling for acceptance, which means that what it says in the ad does not oblige the person who made the ad. And given this different legal force of trade exposure, there are specific rules for this. And that's actually why this directive provides for specific provisions concerning advertising and why the law then implements it in our legislation. It's about the law, and also what, the second major amendment to the law, it's me already, I've already mentioned it in the replica regarding the Consumer Protection Association. At present, the legal arrangement is such that the minister actually determines which associations belong to, meaning the list which can file collective lawsuits etc.. I personally support the spread of this law, the wider rights of consumer associations should certainly be welcomed. However, what I would draw attention to is that the rules on the establishment of associations that are, and this is the Law on Associations that are properly applied to consumer associations, are very flexible, in terms of very easy to set up an association, you only need three natural persons. And in this sense, here is my suggestion, it might not be a bad thing to increase legal certainty in this area that perhaps consumer associations that have fundamental rights in relation to other associations such as filing complaints, such as having members in advisory bodies, may be subject to specific conditions that those associations may have in relation to the number of members, the length of existence, perhaps the amount of money they have at their expense may be discussed but may be prescribed by law which would be specific conditions that would be higher than those of the general conditions for associations in order to give such associations specific rights. I think that it should be considered and that in this way it would actually increase legal certainty without going again, that the matter would be more transparent, that it would not actually go down in these criteria and allowing everyone to press charges. What fellow Alexic said would the association press charges without having anything to do with it? I mean, it could happen, why? So the association is a legal person. The members of the association are not responsible for the obligations of that association, so if the association submits some kind of lawsuit for who knows what reason, you lose the dispute, then the costs if he loses his salary only at the end of the case and again do not correspond to members of the association, but the association as a legal person. So the one who started the whole thing through the association wouldn't actually be in a position to pay these costs for that reason can be used for due diligence and so I think it's a better way to call this regulation of certain criteria that associations should meet, I think it's a better way than to allow all associations broadly, to anyone who establishes an association, to call a consumer protection association to file collective claims to participate in this whole process that regulates this law, etc. Here is what it would be some of my perhaps suggestions to think about, and of course the law and these amendments of the law we support and they are in line with the directive, but certainly again I am glad that consumer protection and here is being communicated, that this is being talked about in public, and I think that the Republic of Croatia has raised these standards of protection in the last 10 years and I believe that we will continue to go in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96307	I thank my colleague Falcone. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96308	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues for what I have already said. I will propose between the two readings of some additions, and the additions will go first in the direction of authorised prosecutors, it is necessary to define transparent and clear criteria who can be an authorised prosecutor. I agree that it can't be everyone, but it is paradoxical that Franak did not get the right to be an authorised prosecutor in collective consumer protection, and here I will publicly and openly say that Franak, after Croatian defenders, is the biggest winner in the Republic of Croatia. No one in the Republic of Croatia achieved such victory after the Croatian defenders, no one. I don't know who can't agree with me. Beating 8 banks in a collective trial, if that's not enough evidence that one association has the right to be an authorised prosecutor, then I don't know what real evidence is. Other evidence, the Franak Association has 30 100 members. By the collective verdict in June of this year there were 28,000, we grew to over 30,000 within a few months. It's a sign that people recognize what we're doing. I'm both an agent and an activist, and I'm going to stay that way, despite what the law says about not using the association for my own interest, it's not my interest. I'm spreading the interest of the association through politics. Each policy has the right, according to the law on associations, to express itself politically in its own way, it is prescribed by law. I smell it somewhere that maybe because of me it's so prescribed because it doesn't say it in the directive anywhere, it's not a directive thing, it's someone put it in there, maybe because of me, I don't know. But I will continue to do what I'm doing and I will suggest that on the basis of transparent criteria, we allow associations, such as Franak, to become authorised prosecutors. Next thing you know, I'm going to suggest that solutions be found that, systematically, after a collective verdict, the systematic compensation of citizens will be resolved. Such system solutions are known in the EU, they are known. We have an example of Austria in which it was found about half a year ago, a year ago, that banks agreed interest in such a way that they agreed to minimalise the interest rate, but the court said you can't negotiate a minimum interest rate and everything that was, should have been reduced below that minimum rate, and the banks didn't work, what did the Austrian Consumer Protection Ministry do to protect consumers who are responsible for consumer protection? On the basis of the court ruling, a proposal for Austrian citizens who were damaged by the illegal behaviour of banks and citizens of Austria could remove the proposal from the ministry's side and sue the bank without lawyers. And what are we doing? We're letting the citizens sue on their own. Hungary has solved the margin problem that we have and we have in a way that has simply defined in contracts where margins are not agreed from now on, since the entry into force of the law, the margins will be 1 and goodbye, you have not agreed properly, so from now on they will be 1st so do the Hungarians. The Germans had a problem with entry fees, we also have this problem, the banks have unlawfully agreed and entry fees and contracts one, two, three percent of the amount of credit when they pay the loan, that is, forbidden under the Mandatory Relations Act, you have to repay the loan and you have to pay the interest on the loan, no entry and no exit fees are in question. The Germans handled it nicely, systematically, there the banks did so, so they had to pay back the money with interest. And what are we doing? Nothing. Nothing. And the next thing, the Consumer Protection Committee will try to create a prerequisite through the Consumer Protection Act that a Consumer Protection Committee must be organised in the Assembly. And finally, fellow Sokol said that each case will be considered in particular, no, the verdict is clear. Banks have negotiated unfair contractual provisions with all consumers, all of them, it says consumers, nothing in particular, this consumer, that consumer, every consumer, the verdict is binding, each court has to apply the verdict without specific evidence and determine only whether the contract has agreed the currency CHF and whether the interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank, if that is the case, must be ruled so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96309	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic, for this final word. We've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break to 18 hours and 30 minutes. It's 18.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96310	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, first reading P.Z.E., No. 408. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the 90 votes for 11 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96311	Continue after the break at 18:30 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues will continue the work of the plenary session. It's next - Final proposal for a law on e-invoicing in public procurement, second reading, P.Z. No. 358 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Art. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law when discussing this item on the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Economy. I call upon the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. The Honorable Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96312	Thank you, Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Electronic Issuance in Public Procurement. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has prepared the Final Proposal for a Law on e-invoicing in public procurement transposing the Directive of the Republic of Croatia into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. 55 of 2014 hence, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 which regulates the electronic issue of public procurement accounts. I note that this law is also part of the measures of the national programme for the reform of the Government of Croatia in 2018, and the main objective of the measure, i.e. 100% of the issue and receipt of e-income in public procurement. What exactly is being introduced by this law? This law introduces the obligation to receive e-income in public procurement procedures from 01. 12. In 2018, and the obligation to issue e-indemnity in public procurement procedures since 01. Seventy-seven. 2019. The law will also cover a larger volume of e-accounts, as we have extended the scope to low-value purchase processes, i.e. below 200 thousand kuna for the purchase of goods and services, and the purchase of works below 500 thousand kuna. The law prescribes a central information intermediary for the State i.e. FINA, to which contracting authorities will be obliged to entrust information intermediation services for receiving and sending electronic accounts. However, units of local regional and regional self-government and related companies and sectoral suppliers of the service concerned may entrust any information intermediary registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or other EU Member States. What are these benefits, i.e. the advantages that are introduced in business through the application of this law? The cost of processing e-accounts will be significantly lower compared to the cost of processing the traditional paper account. A significant amount of savings will be achieved by digitising the business process from procurement to delivery, shorter account-processing deadlines and faster payments. In electronic invoice procedures for e-income issuers, smaller administrative costs of preparation of print and billing, the cost of postage is eliminated, the account is delivered in a much shorter time and is eventually stored in a secure and controlled electronic archive. The advantage for e-account recipients is the rate of receipt and processing of accounts, which minimises the possibility of human error, ensures faster payment and a high degree of automation of the account exchange process. In the context of this and in the context of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts' efforts to disburse entrepreneurs or, in the context of unnecessary administrative burden, we consider it necessary to stress that the application of the law will reduce the costs of the private sector's business. According to estimates for the Republic of Croatia, a maximum effect and savings between 6 and 13% of the total amount of public procurement amounting to more than 2.6 billion kuna can be achieved through the establishment of an integrated electronic procurement process. The real fact is that the business sector is more prepared than the state administration and public administration to switch to electronic invoices mostly because many economic operators have used two systems simultaneously, both paper and electronic, because of the lack of adequate legal framework, with real and high costs. It is precisely these costs of this law that will be drastically reduced by its application. As regards the norm to be implemented by this law, I note that there are currently several global and national standards for the electronic issue of invoices that are not interoperable in Member States. Such incompatible legal and technical requirements regarding electronic accounts are often an obstacle to economic operators and prevent them from entering certain new markets. The European electronic account norm does not enter into ways to exchange accounts or prescribe methods and procedures for the same, but only gives guidance on possible models. Tax supervision will be carried out by authorised representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, while publishers and recipients and their information intermediaries will be responsible for the content of the e-accounts and compliance with the EU-based norm. I would like to add that the European Commission, as an example of others, has published a successful story from Croatia, and has praised the efforts of the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship in promoting e-income in the business of public and state administration bodies. Two implementing rules for this law are also in place. Regulation on technical elements, issue, reception, sending, directing and archiving of electronic accounts and accompanying documents in public procurement and the E-indemnity Compensation Regulation. From all the above, I consider it necessary to adopt this Act and start its application with 1. 12 of this or 1. Seven next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96313	I thank the Honorable Minister for this additional explanation of this final bill. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here in the second reading we have one law from that group of technical laws that must be applied because it is simply a directive of the European Union. He's short. The law only has 16 points. And what the minister has already mentioned and explained, he deals with the problem of e-accounts in public procurement. Therefore, this law transposes one Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 which regulates relations in these business relations in the electronic publication of accounts in the public procurement of Valje, saying that the law itself represents one of the measures of the National Reform Programme of the Government of Croatia in 2018, and the main objective of this same measure is 100% of the issue of accounts and receipt of accounts, e-accounts in public procurement. The establishment of this entire process of electronic procurement can achieve maximum savings effects which can be estimated to be between 6 and 13% of the total amount of public procurement, which means more than 2.6 billion kuna for the Republic of Croatia. It's one massive amount and the law itself when it's seen as technical, it would never be said that it can actually bring such great savings in business. The total value of public procurement in 2016 was almost 45 million kuna, and the total value of small purchases recorded, also covered by this law, is 10 million and 200 thousand kuna, therefore approximately 22.89%. In order to enable the exchange of e-accounts at national and local level, it is necessary to provide transport infrastructure for the continued interconnection of information intermediaries and the exchange of e-accounts and for the implementation of this law to provide funding in the state budget of 4 million kuna per year. It will also be provided at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts for 2019 and primarily at the 2020 projections, 2021. More than 12.5 million interconnections between public and sectoral suppliers and suppliers will be provided from the platform. The definition of the Financial Agency as an information intermediary for certain contracting authorities in the concrete draft of this proposal is therefore based on that Law on State Information Infrastructure, the Regulation on Organisational and Technical Standards for Connecting to State Information Infrastructure and the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents for state administration bodies, budgetary users of the State Budget. In the previous public debate in the first reading, the decision therefore had, in some ways, the most objections and suggestions. But it is in itself well later and explained and in the very law where it has not in any way limited itself to units and local self-government and state institutions not to use any of their platforms. But ultimately, FINA was designated as the technical enforcer of this law and I think that decision is in itself good. One logical sequence is all those decisions made by the government in the early years. Therefore, the basis of those rules... services for the monitoring of the business process for receiving structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents and for the business of information intermediation for the authorities of the state administration and the budgetary users of the State budget has been provided since 2016. The relevant central system of e-investment platforms of the Financial Agency was established in 2016, through which electronic accounts are received by the central state authorities of the administration, but also by other public bodies such as units of local and regional regional self-government. Therefore, the draft draft law based on positive experience in implementing that decision and the roles of the FINA as a provider of part of the service only extends the already allocated service of the FINA as an information intermediary for the reception and transmission of electronic accounts and accompanying documents for certain public contracting authorities. As we have said before, these funds will be about 900 thousand kuna for the upgrade of existing programmes so that this service can be provided as best as possible. Therefore, this bill will also provide a functional eco-system that will generate jobs not only for information intermediaries, but also for system-innovators and companies involved in the development of business processes. process. Through the second reading, we saw that the remarks on the first reading were just a nomotechnic type, so there's an art. 3. point 3. stated that it is generally necessary to appeal to the law because any further amendment or addition of that law would require an amendment to this law, etc. Article 5 6. also, therefore, one 7, 8 changes in the nomotechnical nature so there were absolutely no major interventions in the second reading. And the HDZ Club will support this law in the second reading, here are everyone's thanks for such a good law, regardless of which it is short but will bring great savings in the very business in the Republic of Croatia. Here's so much from the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96315	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anthony Kleman. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Tomislav Liposjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96316	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates. Here is the final proposal for a law on electronic issue of public procurement, and as it is a legislative proposal that contains only 16 articles and since both the opening and the presentation of colleagues to Kleman, I will say a lot of things, and I will not be too long or too long. In short, perhaps a few important things to underline, we have heard that this legal solution also reduces the administrative costs of preparing the print and billing, the cost of mailing is practically removed, and the time of the delivery of the account is shortened. The accounts are also stored in one secure way in the electronic archive. Although there may be no first impression of what is within the reach and scope of this law, I would like to repeat the assessment of the maximum savings effect that this legal solution is taking. The savings range is between 6% and 13% of the total volume of public procurement and, in fact, here in the Republic of Croatia if we take the volume of public procurement we come to an amount of more than 2 and a half million kuna, which I consider to be one substantial asset and are not negligible. More than 400 billion euros will be saved at European Union level in the event of full introduction of electronic accounts. And as I have already said since most of the important things have already been presented in the presentation of Mr. Minister and colleague Kleman, I would no longer repeat myself. I am pleased that we all support such a legal solution that we could also see through working on the parent committees in the final and through the debate in the first reading and I personally welcome it and expect its speedy implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96317	I thank my esteemed colleague, Liposchak. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank once again the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Dark Horvat. Assistant Minister Ivani Sojic and service manager Maja Radišić Zuvanic at the reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96318	Final proposal of the Law on e-procurement of public procurement accounts, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 358. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate has been concluded and the amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, I would like to ask the proposing's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, and we have the Honored Mario Antonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So these are all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96319	The President-in-Office, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, therefore, is the 6th Amendment to the Committee on Law, which concerns the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Publishing of Public Procurement Account. The amendments relate to termological and nomotechnical harmonisations, to calls for articles, items and provisions and to the Government of the Republic of Croatia accept all 6 amendments to this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96320	Thank you. This means that all six amendments become an integral part of the Law. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and put to the vote the final proposal for the Law on the electronic issue of public procurement accounts. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 89 for, 9 abstentions and 1 against the adopted Law on e-invoicing in public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96321	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a brand law, first reading, P.Z. No. 417 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Art. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law when discussing this item on the agenda. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the responsible Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I call on the representative of the motion of State Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Education, Mr. Tom Anticic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96322	Respected, the proposed proposal proposes the adoption of a new trade mark law aimed at improving the system of acquisition of this type of intellectual property right as well as improving the right of the holder of the trade mark on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. To this end, the Proposal for a Mark Act is proposed to prescribe understandable and clear rules and effective procedures for the protection of trade marks, which will ensure consistency of conduct and compliance with the legal framework of the European Union and the international legal framework of the field of trade protection. It shall also ensure the complementarity and consistency of the national trade mark protection system with the trade mark protection system at European Union and international level on the so-called framework. Madrid system. Also with regard to the protection of the rights of the holder of the stamps, the aim of the bill is to provide a normative solution that will enable effective protection against the growing appearance of counterfeiting of stamps and thus ensure better protection of consumers from products and services of questionable quality and safety where protected stamps are used unauthorized. The need to adopt a new trade mark law, in particular the fact that a new Directive 2015/246 of the EU, the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks, which is modernising, supplementing, amends the provisions of the previously applicable Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2008 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks which have so far been harmonised at European Union level with the provisions of the material law on trade marks considered as crucial at the time of its adoption. Directive 2015/246 obliges the EU Member States of the European Union to adopt appropriate laws and regulations by 14 January of the following year in order to comply with the provisions of the Directive. One of the most prominent news adopted by the Directive is the adaptation of the legal framework for the protection of trade marks in the European Union to new technological opportunities... stamps, and the obligation to display a graphic sign so far is lifted. Following this, the stamp will be able to be displayed in any way that allows competent authorities to determine the exact and clear subject of trademark protection, allowing for further development of non-conventional stamps such as sound, mobile and holographic stamps. Furthermore, the Directive establishes an appropriate legal framework for the protection against traditional terms for wines and the traditional speciality of the geographical indication and the designation of origin from the unauthorized registration with a stamp, the introduction of appropriate so-called ‘signature’. the absolute reasons for refusing to register the stamps containing such expressions, and to regulate more detailed rules relating to the registration and protection of joint guarantee stamps. The new law and rules on the labelling and classification of stamps within the meaning of the Regulation on the scope of the protection or products and services to which the trade mark relates in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C370. The novelty is to ensure adequate legal protection for rightholders in relation to counterfeit goods in transit through EU territory and in relation to preparatory actions related to the use or packaging of products not authorised by use of the trade mark. In accordance with the request of Directive 2004/48 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, the urgency of the proceedings is prescribed for infringement of the trade mark. The subject-matter proposal for a trade mark law with respect to compliance with the obligations to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia with Directive 2015/2436EU shall improve the area of protection of trade marks at national level by setting out clearly the conditions relating to registration, extension of the validity of the trade mark and the availability of a correct mark in order to remove certain concerns that arise in the application of existing legal provisions. Furthermore, the national part of the procedures to be carried out under the international trade mark registration procedure in accordance with the amendments and additions to the relevant international regulation common to the Madrid Agreement of international trade mark registration and the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement, which improves the existing rules of international trade mark registration. In view of the extent of the changes envisaged in relation to the existing provisions of the Mark Act, it is proposed to adopt a new law instead of amending and supplementing the existing law adopted in 2003. On five occasions, it was changed and complemented, in line with the relevant guidelines for the regulation. In that respect, the adoption of a new law will facilitate the use of the brand protection system and its compliance with the provisions of its users. First of all, business and business operators will have a particularly favourable impact on the improvement of business environment in the Republic of Croatia. No additional competences of the State Intellectual Property Office or of other State bodies in the registration or protection of marks against infringements shall be exercised by the subject-matter of the Mark Act, nor shall additional financial or other obligations be imposed on trade mark holders. Therefore, the adoption and implementation of this Act will not require the provision of additional resources to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia on top of the funds already being provided for the purpose of regularly carrying out the prescribed activities of existing state bodies. For the purposes of preparing this proposal, a section was established involving representatives of other competent national and judicial authorities participating in the system of enforcement of the right of trade marks. Experts in the field of intellectual property and interested representatives of the social partners and economic associations on the draft law held a public debate through an e-consultation of 30 days in which no objections and proposals were received on the draft law. The draft law was discussed at the 39th session of September 2018 by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a parent working body of the Croatian Parliament and the Legislative Committee, and both committees unanimously supported the adoption of this law, with less than a few no-technical remarks to us. Following all of the above, the Croatian Parliament is invited to support the proposed trade mark law in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96323	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Anticic. Please sit down. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a brand law. By branding, an English trademark as an intellectual property right is protected by signs marking products or services in order to distinguish between products or services of certain companies on the market. So it's not what we call a stamp and what's actually a stamp in the state administration, so this is about what's used to distinguish primarily products between companies and companies on the market. Legal protection by stamping is a sign that companies distinguish their products or services on the market is extremely important for the economy. Since, with this basic function of the brand which allows the consumer to identify the product, which is important from the perspective of consumer protection that we have talked about today, it also means that it can identify a service that meets its needs or expectations or source of such a product or service. The brand can also serve as a guarantee of quality, i.e. as a means of competition between companies, which is particularly important for both Croatia and Croatian companies on the common market of the European Union. The protection and appropriate commercial use of stamps can contribute to the competitiveness of companies or to the increase of their market share and serve as a symbol of the visibility and reputation of their products and services on the market. Thus, the protection of the trade mark for the economy shows the result from the Study of the European Patent Office and the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property. It is therefore a 2016 study whose results show that in the European Union, the segment of the economy that uses the protection of the trade mark contributes to the total national gross product an average of 35.9%. On the other hand, at national level in Croatia, this percentage is more than the European average. So the segment of the economy that uses the protection of the trade marks contributes to the total national gross product of the Republic of Croatia with as much as 36.5%. So the protection of the stamp is very important not only for individual businesses and individual entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia but also for our economy as a whole. In addition to this segment of the economy which uses intensive trademark protection, the share of the EU's total employment of 21.2% and 20.7% at national level in the Republic of Croatia, respectively. So companies whose brand is of exceptional importance that intensively use it all its advantages employ more than 20% of the workers in the Republic of Croatia. So, what am I saying? This law is also important for the entire economy, and it is not just something technical that needs to be done. The European Union trade mark protection system includes two levels, which is already mentioned, so one unitary protection with the European Union trade mark is a unique character valid throughout the European Union. It is therefore the protection which is decided at Union level in the European institutions, and then applies in all countries in particular without having to be registered in each country in particular. And, of course, it also covers protection through national trade marks which are valid on the territory of a Member State in accordance with its national legislation where the procedure is carried out by a competent national institution. In the Republic of Croatia, this is the State Intellectual Property Institute. As already said in the Republic of Croatia, a national trade mark protection system has been regulated by the 2003 Mark Act, which has already been amended five times. So we have that first version and five amendments, which also according to the unique and nomotechnical rules of the Croatian Parliament means that it is a law that has matured not for one more amendment and supplement but for the adoption of a new law and I am glad that in this sense here and following the single nomotechnical rules of the Assembly by the competent ministry. It is, therefore, a law that regulates national law, other than that, means European trade mark and national level, and also national aspects of the international trade mark registration system based on so-called ‘the European trade mark’. The Madrid system under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The European Commission's analysis highlighted the problems facing businesses in practice in applying the current legal framework of the European Union and the existing national legal framework in the field of trademark protection. Therefore, these problems stem from their lack of compliance with these two systems means European and national, also in relation to procedural rules relating to registration and maintenance of stamps, inequality and lack of rules relating to the registration and protection of common and guarantee stamps, as well as the lack of an appropriate legal framework for protection against traditional terms for wines, traditional specialties guaranteed and geographical indications and designation of origin. So these are the areas which are of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia, of course. The existing legal framework also does not provide adequate legal protection to rightholders and stamps in relation to counterfeit goods in transit through the territory of the European Union, and to preparatory actions related to the use or packaging of products by unauthorised use of the trade mark. Thus, in addition to that technological development and the placement of products and services of companies on the global market, it requires that the relevant legal regulation also monitors this development and compliance of the legal framework for the protection of trade marks with new technological opportunities, as the State Secretary also mentioned. So this is about new means of supplying evidence that enables businesses to register rapidly and effectively the protection of trade marks on national regional and international brand protection systems. For all of these reasons, which I have mentioned, the boldness of the system to an insufficient quality or perhaps insufficient abditability, the update of existing solutions at European Union level has been adopted by the aforementioned Directive 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the trade mark. The adoption of the Directive has implemented an appropriate reform of the trade mark protection system in the European Union in terms of its modernisation and improved mutual harmonisation of the unitary and national trade mark protection system. Prior to its adoption, it has been established that it is important to exceed the limited part of the coordination achieved by Directive 2008/95 and to extend the harmonisation to other aspects of the material right on trademarks protected by registration under Regulation No. 207/2009. Of course, the fundamental objective of these regulations and these legislative reforms is to achieve the objectives of fostering and creating a successful internal market and enabling the acquisition and protection of trade marks in the European Union, and in particular the benefits of the growth of the competitiveness of European SMEs. So this is what the European Commission has been working on in recent years and this is exactly what needs to be seen in the context of the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises both in the rest of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the acquisition and application of trade marks across the Union, it was necessary to align not only the provisions of material rights but also the procedural rules as already mentioned by the State Secretary. For this reason, the main procedural rules on the scope of the registration of the trade marks of the Member States and, of course, in the European Union trade mark system should be harmonised. As regards national law proceedings in this respect, it was sufficient to lay down general principles for Member States to allow them to establish more detailed rules. Therefore, the directive itself leaves a significant freedom in this segment of the Member States provided that the two conditions that European law requires in the implementation of European rules are met in national law, which is the principle of equality, means that protection is at the same level as with respect to all rights relating to the European Union. And the principle of effectiveness is particularly important. It means that European law standards are effectively implemented in domestic legislation. As regards the content of the law itself, it aims, as we have said, to improve the system of registration and protection from rights and trade marks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia by prescribing accessible and clear rules and effective procedures to ensure consistency of the conduct and consistency of the legal framework of the European Union. Of course, with the consistency of all these systems that we have changed means, the international system, the internal protection system of the European Union and national law. So, in addition to the protection of trade marks such as state secret, the aim is to provide legal solutions that will enable effective protection against counterfeiting of rightholders and trade marks, and in particular to consumers of products and services where unauthorized stamps are used as another segment essential for consumer protection so that they are fully informed of what they are actually buying or using. So, as it is said, it is in line with the existing and so far the Mark Act, this Bill proposal, the legal framework in terms of harmonising with the new technological capabilities of the stamp display and, in particular, the obligation to protect the mark as a mark must be lifted graphically. In that respect, Article 6 which I will now quote the Law proposal has been prescribed that the mark may consist of any of the following, in particular words including personal names or drawings, letters, figures, colors, product forms or packagings, provided that such signs are suitable for the following: the distinction of the product of one of the companies from the products or services of other undertakings, and the presentation in the register in such a way as to enable the competent authorities and the public to determine the exact and clear subject of the protection provided by the brand to the holder. So on the one hand, we have a distinction between different products and services, meaning between different companies, but of course, what's particularly important is information to the public what it's really about, what kind of product or service it's really about. Furthermore, what is particularly important for Croatia is the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for protection against traditional terms for wines, traditional specialties guaranteed, geographical indications and the designation of origin on authorised trade marks registrations. In this respect, new absolute reasons for refusing to register are laid down. In that direction, Article 9. The proposal for a law stipulates that, among other things, trade marks excluded from registration in accordance with European Union legislation or international agreements which the European Union is a party to ensure the protection of traditional terms for wine, as well as trade marks excluded from registration in accordance with European Union legislation or international agreements providing protection and guaranteeing traditional specialties. This is of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, it is particularly important to stress that the State Intellectual Property Institute is keeping an eye on these reasons for official duty. So when we say that it is absolute reasons for rejection unlike relative, it means that it is not necessary for another party to object, but rather for the State Intellectual Property Office to keep an eye on the official duty to protect these traditional products. Why is this important in the text of the Croatian economy? It is therefore important because the protection of traditional products and, in general, the food industry is recognised as being of strategic importance as such by the Smart Specialisation Strategy, and without the Smart Specialisation Strategy, we would not be able to withdraw funds from European funds. The food and drink sector has a significant share in the Croatian economy and reputations as the strongest producer activity according to the incomes achieved and the number of employees. Although the share of exports in total revenues is much lower than in other industrial activities compared to other EU Member States, the share of the Croatian food and processing industry in total exports is among the highest. So Croatia, so the share of exports of goods in terms of food products, is in Croatia, is one of the largest when compared with other EU Member States and is therefore one of the most strategic and important branches in the structure of the Croatian economy. And, of course, for these mentioned reasons, the protection of traditional specialties is extremely important because they represent a comparative advantage for Croatia on the European market. In addition to the above, I would also like to welcome the urgency of the procedure. That's especially important. We have already prescribed this in some of the laws that this Parliament has passed over the last year, and that is particularly important in the context of intellectual property because here if the damage is not rapidly responded, there may be irreparable damage to a particular producer or to a particular company whose brand is unauthorized. And that is why it is extremely important to prescribe urgency, but also to respect this provision of law and to sanction those potentially courts that will not apply that provision. Finally, I also welcome that this law does not create additional administrative and financial obligations. I think it is extremely important in the Republic of Croatia, given our general and traditional burden, perhaps sometimes unnecessary procedures, and that is why this law is certainly a quality proposal and, for all of these reasons, it will be supported by the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96325	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected representatives of the ministry and representatives of the Intellectual Property Protection Agency. I think I got the full name of the institution right. The SDP club will support the proposal for a brand law. It is clear and clear from the very reasons and the assessment of the situation and the basic issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that legislation will require us to comply with the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. More specifically, Directive 2015/2436 which we, as a Member State, are actually obliged to comply with our legislation or with the relevant laws and regulations by 14 January 2019. I'm glad we don't do what we say in the last few minutes and at the last minute. What is equally clear from the very proposal for a law that the proposed law, with the harmonisation and compliance of the obligations to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, will regulate the area of protection of the trade mark and at national level, or improve the clearer determination of conditions relating to registration, extension of the validity of the trade mark and the availability of trade mark rights in order to remove certain concerns that arise in the application of existing legal provisions. Furthermore, so far, the obligation to protect as a mark must be lifted in a graphic way. An appropriate legal framework for the protection of traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities of geographical indications and designations of origin from unauthorised registration will be established in such a way as to introduce appropriate absolute reasons for refusing to register the stamp. We also hope that what you have said as a proposal will actually come true in the very introduction of the law, which is the consequence that by adopting this law, which should be derived from it, which is that it will achieve greater quality and efficiency of the implementation of the procedure so that all these new procedures will not bring new obligations to businesses or new obligations, or neither new financial nor other obligations, but rather as you say positive effects on the business of economic operators and on the competition due to a level playing field for the acquisition of maintenance and protection of rights and trade in the common market of the European Union, which, as you say, will positively affect the greater legal certainty and competitiveness of companies on the market. Similarly, more protection of companies and the entire segment is guaranteed, so let us call it, intellectual property in this part when we talk about the counterfeit trade mark, which is what you have initially said to protect consumers, and this is what we have here in the Croatian Assembly today and we have devoted a good part of the debate. Similarly, you are very ambitious to say that the adoption of this law, of course, in a co-ordination with some other laws, could contribute to the stronger competitiveness of companies and could have a positive impact on economic work and employment, thus bringing about co-ordinating and increasing exports. We'll believe you on the word there's no one else and we'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96327	Thank you very much to my esteemed colleague, Voter, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respects to the Honorable Secretary of State and the Director of the State Intellectual Property Office with an associate. Well, through the club debates, we've mostly heard most of what we should've heard about this bill. I'm just going to point out some of the essential points of this law in my individual presentation. So, it is already said and we know that the subject matter of the law is, in fact, an exclusive right recognised as a sign that serves to distinguish products, or, the service of one of the other persons in economic traffic, and there is a need to immediately distinguish what we use in our colloquial excuse as an expression for a stamp, or for a stamp, is not a stamp, a stamp is not a stamp it sometimes brings when little is not thought in the right way in error. So, it is important here to say that the stamp is actually protected within the meaning of this law, of course, protecting the name or logo or some album or label or any other different characteristic of the product, or service, and that the stamp is actually obtained by registration on the basis of the examination carried out by the relevant competent authority, and in the case of the Republic of Croatia it is the State Intellectual Property Office. It should also be pointed out that the basic condition that a sign must satisfy in order to become a stamp at all is that it is different and that it is not similar to any other earlier trade mark on any of the elements and, in this way, the stamp actually guarantees the owner the exclusive right to place on the market of the products or services marked by it. Similarly, it is important to point out that brand protection is, in fact, a very effective market asset to which manufacturers, i.e. service providers, protect the funds they have invested in the promotion and marketing of their products or their services. And what I think is important here is to point out that the protection of creation itself, i.e. the design of a sign, a logo or some label that can represent or represent someone's author's work, actually protects them by copyright, which protects the copyright, which protects the interest of the author himself, and in that sense, in fact, the mark as the right of intellectual property protects the signs that mark products or services for their differentiation, i.e. the differentiation of individual companies, i.e. economic operators on the market. Therefore, the system of protection of stamps at national level in our country has already been resolved by the earlier Mark Act, however, it has already been explained that the first Mark Act was passed in 2003, we live in 2018 because of the new circumstances, and I would say extensive changes that a good solution is that after five amendments to the existing law still went to the making of a new law, so I really welcome this more that the adoption of a new law will, in fact, significantly facilitate the use of the trademark protection system for its users, and in the first place, they are economicists. In this respect, I also welcome the basic objective of the law, which is to improve the system of registration of protection and right of trade marks on the territory of Croatia, but also to ensure the complementarity of the national trade mark protection system with a brand protection system at the level of the entire European Union. In this respect, this law therefore also constitutes a harmonisation with the European Union directives of 2015 and earlier in 2015 as a directive that further modernises and improves and regulates the rights arising from the trade mark and this Directive of 2004 relating to the implementation of intellectual property rights. What seems important to me to point out that, in relation to the existing law, this new brand law actually establishes an appropriate legal framework for protection above all traditional terms for wines, and then guaranteed traditional specialties, a geographical indication of origin, and also a designation of origin from an unauthorized registration by introducing appropriate absolute reasons for refusing to register marks which I consider to be very important. In this way, right-holders and stamps shall be provided with adequate legal protection against counterfeit goods which may be found in transit through the territory of the European Union and what will arise among the consequences arising from the adoption of this Act, and to me it seems quite important to mention first and foremost, the improvement of the registration system and the protection of the right of trade marks. The system will be more accessible to me, as clear rules and procedures will be established to ensure the consistency and consistency of the procedures in the field of registration and trademark protection. In the first row, the legal framework of the European Union, and then the international legal framework which has been established and regulated by the Madrid system, will thus ensure complementarity, so above all, of the system of national trademark protection with a trade mark protection system at European Union level, and then with the system of internationally registered stamps right through the Madrid system. And what I think is still really important to note is that this law does not introduce new procedures or new obligations for businesses, but is just making it easier for them to apply the trademark protection system in business. And what I find important is that the law does not introduce any new fees, nor any new charges, nor any changes that would require business adjustment, and thus may be unrelated to new costs for our businesses and for our entrepreneurs, but is exactly expected on the contrary, the positive effects on the business of economic operators above all, on competition due to the level playing field, both for the maintenance and then for the protection of trade marks rights on the common market of the European Union, which, of course, has a positive impact on greater legal certainty and of course on the competitiveness of businesses on the market. And thus, by strengthening competitiveness, economic growth and new employment can also be made possible and everything we want to achieve in every way, including supporting and strengthening our economy and our economies. And in that sense, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96329	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. Replica, dear fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96330	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Bedekovic, I'm glad you thanked the law as much as I did, but at this point I would point out one aspect that may not have been so highlighted that I think it is important, which is respect for this whole procedure. So, forming a task force, including all stakeholders, conducting adequate public debates, etc. I think it is important and I think it is important not only to the laws, but also to all other decisions, especially those that have major financial repercussions, institutions, institutions in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I mean the system of science and primary, secondary and higher education. I know that there have been recent remarks from some stakeholders that some decisions have not been quite communicated properly, so here I hope that in light of the procedure as proposed and this law that these same procedures will apply in the future to all other acts coming out of all ministries, especially the Ministry of Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96331	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Education, Mr. Toma Antičić, the Honorable Director of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, Ms. Ljiljana Kuterovac, and the Honored Chief of the Sector at the Ministry of Visnja Kuzmanovic, for their reasons and for their answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96332	Proposal for a brand law, first reading of P.Z. No. 417, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a trade mark law and 1 shall be adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 95 votes for and 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96333	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on data and information in health care, first reading, P.Z. Number 422 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like a representative of the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill's proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The draft Health Data and Information Act provides the basis for harmonisation of the legal framework for the management of health data and information and their better quality of processing at national health system level and at European Union and international level. In the National Health Development Strategy 12 of 20 years of age, the priority in the strategic developmental direction and measures is the integration and standardisation of health data and information, as well as the harmonisation of the level of information in health. This proposal for a law provides for the implementation of Regulation No 1338 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on Community statistics on public health and health and safety at work. The draft law prescribes standards for improving the quality of information technologies within the framework of eHealth in accordance with national information infrastructure, while reducing the administrative affairs of healthcare professionals, and the Ministry of Health becomes the central body for the eHealth of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law prescribes the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and physical persons of the health system of the Republic of Croatia in the field of the management of data and information on health, common principles and standards of quality of processing and use of health data and information, their protection and storage, the catalogue of information standards in the health of the Republic of Croatia, the production of quality public health indicators for public health, management, statistical and scientific research purposes and inspection and professional supervision. The aim of the bill is to make comprehensive and efficient use of health data and information in healthcare to improve and preserve the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96335	I would like to thank Mr. Dulibic, the Honorable Secretary of State, for the reasons of the bill. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Please welcome the President-in-Office of the Committee on Health, Social Policy, Mrs Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96336	I would like to thank the chairman, the honourable representative of the government and the ministry, the honourable MPs. So at its 52nd session of October, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the Proposal for a Law on Data and Information in Health. The Committee also discussed as a parent working body, the applicant's representative pointed out in the opening section the objective of adopting this legislative proposal, which is reflected in the comprehensive and effective use of health data and health care information to improve and preserve the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, standards for improving the quality of information technologies within eHealth are prescribed in accordance with national information infrastructure, while reducing the administrative jobs of healthcare professionals, the Ministry of Health becomes a central body for eHealth of the Republic of Croatia. And that's commendable. All rights and obligations and responsibilities of legal and physical persons of the healthcare system in the field of the management of data and information in health care, common principles and quality standards, processing and use of health data and information, their protection and storage shall also be prescribed. In the discussion, the board members praised the introduction of a system of information in healthcare especially because so far the Health Registration Act of 1988 was in force and there was no fully harmonised legal framework on the management of health data and information. Some board members expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that the proposals of the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society were not accepted. After the debate, the members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the proposal for a law on data and information in health was adopted and that all objections would be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96337	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Mrs Ines Strenja Linic, for this explanation. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96338	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on data and information in health care. As you have heard from the representatives of the Ministry of Health and from colleague Strenja Linic, what I would have really said was funny in some way that so far there was a Law on Health Records from 1988 and the adoption of such a bill is necessary. That's what all of us who work in health care like our patients do. The ministry's own representative said this law would ensure the implementation of Regulation No. From 16 December 2008 on Community statistics on public health, health and safety at work, 1338/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Why this law is really important to us. We know that we are quality and updated health data and information, their monitoring and management of them and the systems themselves, the storage of data is extremely important to us, it is important to us for the quality functioning of the health system, the exercise of legal rights and the obligations of the patients themselves. In order for the health system itself to be effective is a very important quality in collecting and using the health data and information itself. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia so far, we have not had such a united system that could benefit all participants of the health system. We are witnessing that there are no common principles, proselytes, procedures, responsible bodies, and only what I have said is a way of achieving the rights and obligations of legal and physical persons in the health system itself. What we haven't defined so far is data information standards and regulations. So there is an extremely visible discrepancy between the information systems themselves. What we witnessed in the Republic of Croatia is that certain hospitals, especially less hospitals, general hospitals, county hospitals, are forced to buy information systems, so let's say that they meet their financial needs. Unfortunately, they are often unedited, they often cannot offer all that is needed in the health system itself and in the monitoring itself of patients. We know that everyone is connected to a central system called CEZIH, which unfortunately the vast majority of smaller hospitals are unable to track their patients at the time they go to KB, KBC. I believe that with this bill we will achieve a united system of information and data in health care and with certain health projects that will allow all hospitals from small hospitals to KBC. What has started to apply and what has so far proved to be good in primary health care, where we can in some ways be relatively satisfied with the very functioning of the information and data system. This is all I've mentioned, all of the shortcomings that we currently have in the collapse of information in the health system tells us that we need to in some way harmonize the information system itself in health care in order to make its purpose more efficient and economical and safer use of health data and information itself. In fact, this is very clear and highlighted in the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, where it is highlighted as the priority of standardisation of health data and their integration and the very information itself and the harmonisation of the level of information in health. If we are talking about medicine, we know that medical documentation is a fundamental source of health information about the healthcare user and an integral part of the electronic health records that must meet the needs of all stakeholders in the health system, which I have mentioned, and this very example of the current, of course, disorganization in the collapsing of information. What will be defined by these laws, which is extremely important, is to define the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons who will participate in the health system itself of the Republic of Croatia, principles, collection, use and processing of health data and information. And what should certainly be highlighted is standardising the process of processing and collecting health data. For the data that we use in the health system, it is very important that they are available, that they are verifiable, that they are true and in the way that we believe in the future is used, that it will reduce administrative affairs which we now know very well that every healthcare worker has an extremely, extremely large amount of paperwork that is now at the time of the information in this century, I really don't think is necessary. What should certainly be pointed out is that this law aims to improve the quality of the health system and also to improve information technology in the healthcare sector itself. We must stress that I did not say at first that we as a HDZ club will support such a law, so we welcome such a law, we welcome it for the simple reason that we believe it is necessary to introduce a certain order of information in the healthcare system itself, which we believe will allow for better quality and health protection of our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96339	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Josic. We move on to the next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96340	I thank the Prime Minister once again, and I welcome the government's representative. Something on behalf of the MOST club. Therefore, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Data and Information in Health which provides the basis for harmonisation of the legal framework, the management of health data and information. I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the right to access information as the Constitution of guaranteed rights of all citizens, which can only be restricted by law in proportion and how necessary and assessed in each case and governed by the Law on the right to access to information prescribed by the restriction of access and the obligations of some 6,000 public authorities, of which more than 200 of them are currently in the list of public authorities. The implementation of the law is supervised by the Commissioner for Information primarily as an appeal body which also monitors and implements the prescribed obligations from which it is essential that pro-actively self-initiatively on their websites publish information on their work and organisation, general acts and decisions they make, decision-making, financing, public spending and all other information. Furthermore, in practice it often occurs that users are looking for information to which the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is applied as a lex specialis in relation to the Law on the right to access information which also prescribes the obligation of proactive information and access to information. Therefore, when a patient wishes to exercise the right to access all medical documentation relating to diagnostics and the treatment of his disease whose self-examination may be required, the Law on Access to Information shall not apply, but the Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights shall therefore not be treated as requests for access to information under the Information Act. Something about this law. So MOST will vote against this law. Why? The ministry did not accept comments and suggestions from the doctor of the chamber which were quite extensive in e-consultation. It did not even accept recommendations from the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society and ultimately, the proposed law is in conflict with the State Information Infrastructure Act. So national Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, the Strategic Plan for Human Resources in Health and the Strategic Plan for eHealth Development in the Republic of Croatia recognized the digitisation of health in one of the key tools developed by Croatian health care. The existing law, which has a nominally regulated field of data management in health care, the Health Registration Act, has been filled in for 40 years and does not provide answers to a number of questions such as in other nor to the rules arising from the Health Protection Act, which is the Regulation on the use and protection of data from patient medical documentation in the central information system of the Republic of Croatia, the Regulation on how to manage, maintain and collect, the availability of medical documentation of patients in the central information system of the health care of the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation on health care quality standards and how to apply it. It is particularly important to take into account the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which provides for each guarantee of the security and confidentiality of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down by law. The law regulates data protection and surveillance of the operation of information systems in the country. It shall be prohibited to use personal data contrary to the intended purpose of their collection. According to the Republic of Croatia, the processing of personal data of subjects must be based on a law which must also indicate the minimum purpose of processing. It is instructed to establish the same controller, type of personal data, categories of subjects, restrictions, purposes, storage period and other insurance measures, legal and fair processing. Until recently, the Data Protection Act was prescribed how personal data can be collected for the purpose of which the subject is familiar, which is explicitly stated and in accordance with the law and can only be further processed for the purpose of which they have been collected, or for the purpose of which they have been collected. For the purposes of this Article, or for the purposes of collecting, and to comply with the provisions of this Article, this Article shall apply. responsible personal data collection manager. The law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation was adopted, the income law on the protection of personal data was put out of force and the law itself in the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation has no health content that is indeed contained in the General Regulation. It is clear from everything, if the data and information in health care are not regulated by this law, in an appropriate, professionally sustainable and applicable manner, the future of digitisation of data will remain on uncertain feet. It is necessary by this law to regulate the concept of the place where the documents are made, who makes the documentation? Is this a health care professional, an associate not a healthcare professional, a medical device, a classification of documentation, administrative documentation, medical, sister primal, type of documentation, digital, manual management, diagnostic imaging materials, a physiological curve electricer, schematic and process standards, ensuring that Semantic standards are entered, exchanged and read understandable and useful data, while providing process standards with their quality, timelyness, reliability and sufficientness. It is also necessary to determine how long and in what conditions a particular team of documentation is kept, which health data are subject to public health care, the basic components of the health information system, interoperability within and outside the health and information system, the list and description of the health registers, the list and the description of records in health care, the list and the description of the type of documentation, and the rights of access and specific cases. Without such a methodologically structured approach, the law will not justify the expectations of citizens who, at the time of the 4 industrial revolution, want to inherit all modern, technological achievements available to neighbouring countries of Europe. It appears that this bill has considerable uncertainty, vague formulations and as such cannot provide a clear framework of security and legality which is so necessary for continuing the processes and informing health care. Despite regulation, protection of personal data, health institutions and other bodies in the field of health, and in particular the Ministry of Health, institutions, agencies, chambers, shall be obliged to access public data, ensure the publication of relevant information on the Internet, as well as the availability of databases and registers from their jurisdiction. And now specifically about the articles. Article 12 should be brought into line with the personal data law and the GDP Directive, which states that personal data should be appropriate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes to which such data are incorporated. In particular, it is necessary to ensure that the period during which data are stored is limited to a strict minimum. Therefore, in the light of the law, there is no reasoned minimum, it can be further defined, that instead of permanent storage, all data should be permanently used anonymous data. Furthermore, related to art. The 28th would repeat it once more, so what did the article say? The 39th Data Protection Regulation, which requires a strict minimum, therefore it is particularly necessary to ensure that the period during which personal data are stored is limited to a strict minimum. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of processing could not reasonably be achieved by other means, ensuring that personal data are not kept longer than necessary, the controller should set a time limit for erasure or periodic review, as the Data Protection Regulation states. From that explanation, which you have put in Art. The 28th is not clear whether the 10-year term is a strict minimum. And at the end of what the article says. 29. paragraph 1 says, the national public health information system is organised in the Croatian Institute of Public Health and can be accessed by county public health services and authorised legal and physical persons. So, in this way as defined, the national, public health information system, it acts as a separate system, not as part of state information infrastructure. In addition, it is not seen whether citizens have the right to access information about themselves, as well as who has accessed all data at what time and for what purposes and who is obliged to provide it. And that's important because of GDPR. When we talk about health and medical records and there's also a lot of ambiguity. So it's not clearly marked, clearly explained, which is medical and what is medical documentation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 1 states that health records of health activities are conducted in electronic form, where it is unclear whether the proposer ignores the fact that currently the health documentation is conducted in paper form, or the health documentation is considered as medical documentation in electronic form, in which case it must be in the legal text and highlighted. Otherwise, the legal provision is inapplicable. With all this in mind, we consider it necessary to clearly define and specify the difference between the terms of health documentation and medical documentation, although you are just claiming that everything is defined in the concept, we tried to clarify that in the session, it is not true, and further work is needed. Furthermore, health records, which should be broader than medical records. Although you insist that everything is defined in the terms, this is what we tried to clarify at the session, it is not true and further work is necessary. Furthermore, health documentation that should be broader than medical documentation is mentioned only in a way that defines how it is managed. Therefore, this provision is unscheduled, since it does not contain the development of health documentation in such a way as to indicate what it consists of, whether the sister's documentation is part of the health file, etc. It was particularly highlighted as a major problem and a chamber of medical resources in e-consultation. In addition, we are of the opinion that this law should provide for species, content, way of collecting and making available health documentation, purpose and storage deadlines, and we hold that the same cannot be prescribed by sublaws. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 20, Article 1 states that health records are conducted in electronic form, where it is unclear whether the proposer is currently guided by the majority in paper form or the health documentation is considered to be medical documentation only in electronic form in which case this must be highlighted in the legal text. Art. 22. says the e-cardon has access to the basis of its level of authority only healthcare professionals who participate in the treatment and care of the patient and those authorized by the patient. Data insights and e-cardon has a patient on his own via the e-Citizen system. The contradiction of this provision with all other provisions of the law is clear, since the data is subsequently exchanged through... In this section with treatment, patients are missing medical care as well as the definition of who determines the level of authorisation for healthcare professionals and who are healthcare professionals involved in the treatment and care for the patient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the proposed formulation is too wide-ranging since a whole range of healthcare professionals participate in the treatment process. So, do they all have the right to insight at all times? It is also necessary to take into account provisions stemming from the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, which relate to the right to insight into medical documentation in the event of patient death. Next, in Art. 26. The proposal, which lists individual powers of the Ministry of Health as the central eHealth body of the Republic of Croatia, does not mention the need to consult or obtain the previous opinion of competent chambers of health. I believe that it is necessary, in the process of passing legal, and in particular, sublegal rules governing the collection, processing and protection of data and information on health care, to prescribe the obligation to collect the previous opinion of the competent chambers, with a deadline within which they are obliged to deliver their statement. And that's why the Most Independent Lists will be against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96341	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96342	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, we often have these topics like this in these hours when the assembly room is half empty. I am really wondering about the meaning of our discussions and our work and the Croatian Parliament as a whole. Now we're in a meeting with Vice President 10. Of us 10, four have already discussed this on the Committee on Health and Social Policy. A total of 5 doctors here, so it would almost make sense that we did it on the Health Committee and that we were not even working on the plenary session anymore because this number of interested parliamentary representatives and our debate is actually almost too high. So, I think we will all have to think a little bit together about what the Croatian Parliament is and how to improve the work of the Croatian Parliament, because otherwise the assessment that citizens give us will be even less than the one that is now. So I'm actually wondering about the meaning of this debate, and I've already talked about it on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and the Secretary of State heard it all, Col. Celic, co-worker Ćosic, co-worker of Strenja-Linić, has heard it all. Now I'm gonna do it one more time, the secretary of state already knows all about it. So I think we really need to ask ourselves a little bit about what the purpose of the work of our Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament is in this way how it now works. Therefore, we have already heard that we are currently working under a 40-year-old law that speaks in itself about how important this Health Data and Information Act is because it will allow us to make a whole series of decisions that can improve the health system. I'm not gonna repeat everything that's been said. I'll mention here that, for example. The health information system in Great Britain produces national and clinical standards and guidelines for the management of health data, and manages the insurance programme... clinical data which have achieved compliance of the clinical and professional, or academic community in health and social care, patient representatives and technological resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be some kind of goal that we are also seeking, and in some ways this legislative proposal, we heard, represents the realisation of the 2012-2020 national health strategy goal. Therefore, the objective of this legal framework is to develop integrated strategic thinking for future decision-making in the field of monitoring, planning, development and management of health data, health information, or management of all resources available to health care. Well, that's exactly what we're missing. So we're making a number of health decisions today. The next week is probably a new package of laws regarding health care, and the data we have is actually very missing. So I don't have to tell you that we have the first data, that information comes from the data, and that only then can we create some knowledge that will allow decisions to be made. Today we have probably as much data and information as we've ever had in the history of the world, but knowledge is getting smaller and smaller because having information that we're going to Google doesn't necessarily mean that we have knowledge. Therefore, this Law should also ensure that we have more knowledge and in the health care system, which we will make concrete decisions that ultimately aim to improve the quality of the health system. Therefore, this Law creates the basis for... the entire legal framework for management and quality processing of health data and information in the Republic of Croatia, which will ultimately allow better quality health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that should be the ultimate goal of this law. What I especially want to highlight from all this data that we have in this law, that's the point. 11th and 12th to speak about the public health register and the health register. So, this is the key that is missing right now in Croatian health even though we, if we look at the history of the processing of information in the Republic of Croatia, have always been a step ahead of the rest, even in the world frameworks. I will mention that the register for cancer in the Republic of Croatia has existed since 1959, the register of persons with diabetes then SR Croatia is from 1970. So even then, registers began to be created that allow us to have quality information that then creates the basis for better treatment and resource management in the system. I would also like to mention the article in particular. 4. which is very important because it says, collection, use and processing of health data and information must be carried out in accordance with the principles of legality of the collection and processing of health data and information and their originality and directness, authenticity, truthfulness and reliability, standardisation of processing and interoperability procedures, traceability and urgency of health data, availability and protection of health data and information, and efficiency of reducing the amount of restrictions on the storage of health and other personal data. So, on the trail of everything I've said, the SDP Club will support this law in its first reading because we believe it will make it available more quality to all data and information and will allow for an increase in knowledge that will ensure better decision-making in order to improve the quality of healthcare in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are also some remarks that came from the Croatian medical chamber. Part of them was said by a colleague of Strenja-Linić on behalf of the Most. I am convinced that until the second reading, respecting all this data the final text will be even more quality precisely in order to improve health care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96343	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Gordan Maras is gone. Dear colleague Vlatko Kopić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96344	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] The first reading of the Health Data and Information Act is before us, which has a fundamental task of achieving uniformity and consistency in the collection, use and exchange of health data and information, which is a prerequisite for the effective operation of the overall health system, and this can be done specifically through its effective information. This Proposal for a Law shall ensure the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on Community statistics in public health and on health and safety at work. How important this is and can be personally witnessed, how much rationalisation and savings have been achieved when the administration of the largest health institution in eastern Croatia introduced a hospital information system that recorded all diagnostic, therapeutic procedures, introduced an adequate collection of participation, connected other information systems to one whole, thus speeding up a quality decision on the right direction of our patients' treatment. I must point out that this way of work has also made it possible to improve the privacy of patients required by other regulations because this process reduces the increased need for administrative staff in our clinics. This has also been done in the direction of reducing non-medical staff, which is certainly one of the recommendations and guidelines of both the ministry and the European health administration's efforts. In the end, all of this certainly has an impact on the fiscal business of the institution that we are headed. In the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, priority in strategic development and measures is certainly the integration and standardisation of health data and information, as well as the harmonisation of the level of information in health. We have launched a project of the information link between KBC and local hospitals and health homes, thus reducing the need to double the search, thereby speeding up the process of treating patients in difficult emergency situations. This is what we wanted to confirm by respecting the principle of efficiency and reducing the amount of health checks this Law requires us to do. From day to day, we make upgrades to the hospital information system, which is important, which is necessary because updating all data is necessary for better and better quality decision-making throughout the treatment system. Because effective use of health data, health care information should be a priority for all of us to improve and preserve the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia. From all of this, I believe that the adoption of this Law is in the interest of all of us who are in this health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96345	Thank you, dear colleague Kopic. We have one replica. Comrade Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96346	Well, here's colleague Kopic, I really am, I was very surprised when you said you were able to connect with the surrounding hospital, which is very commendable. Because unfortunately, today in the health system, we don't all have that option. I also said in my debate that small hospitals, meaning county hospitals are often forced to buy cheaper information systems so that I can't afford what you've afforded, which is a very good practice, which I believe the Ministry of Health will be recognized as something good and will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96347	Thank you. Answer, colleague Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96348	My colleague Josic, I am pleased that you have noticed this one step we have made and made since the system is not fully uniformed or uniform and is not connected to all segments of providing health care in the Republic of Croatia. We have decided simply to make yourself available to all minor health institutions when we are specifically talking about health homes and county hospitals thus making our hardware available, our simple information system. We have connected with the use of certain lines and thus we also use our radiological information system, a laboratory information system for everything in our space. We expect that our Resort Ministry will also recognise it on this trail as well as importing a whole simple system to reduce the costs themselves, and just as I said, strengthen it, only improve the simple functioning of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96349	I thank my colleague Kopić for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I dare say that it is not possible to talk about serious health reform unless we have a modern and modern law today that will regulate the area of health data information. The already respected colleague Jovanovic mentioned registers, so the national public health information system as an organised system of information services of the Croatian Institute of Public Health has had several decades of history, but these public health registers with a number of control services, with stakeholders in health care and other sectors of public administration so far have not actually had a formal legal foothold here and here if we look at three pillars that are important for data and gathering information in health care, so the Croatian Institute for Public Health Insurance, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and of course the Ministry of Health, we now get a formal legal foothold. In Croatia there are 4 registers for infectious diseases, 4 registers for chronic non-infectious diseases and conditions. On the other hand, we have a situation that there is still no centralised information system in Zagreb, and the main observation, therefore, of a very high-quality system of treatment for opiate addicts, was the lack of a centralised information system during the evaluation. In Croatia, it should work to promote a culture of health information in Croatia. It is also worth mentioning here the concept of organisational culture, since in health circles changes in organisational culture are often cited as one of the most important preconditions for improving the functioning of the health system and indirect health care. Given that data and information are extremely important management resources in the planning, management and evaluation of the health system, it is also necessary to develop information culture as part of an organisational culture that determines information management and how it is used in the system. The use of information communication technologies that develop slower than in other sectors because of the complexity of the health system, significantly alters the ways, forms and places of collection, analysis and use of data. In order for the interaction of people, information and technology in any organisation, as well as in health, a successful working effect should be given to promote and cultivate the behaviour and values that encourage the productive use of information, but also to develop the ability to effectively manage information technology applications and infrastructure, as well as the ability to effectively manage information, i.e. their collection, organisation, processing and maintenance. According to the definition present in the strategic plan for development of health care, it involves professional and business health procedures and processes supported by electronic, information and communication services, information systems in health institutions including exchange of electronic health records, distribution of health information, private and public, medical research and internet services for healthcare users. Health care is expected to increase the availability and quality of health information to healthcare professionals and citizens, save money and other resources by avoiding unnecessary, incorrect and excess activities, simplifying the use of health services, more direct the role of system users in caring for their health, complete and quality data in good time at the disposal of public health. Here I would also like to mention questions about the patient's survey as feedback on whether this would be envisaged and whether it could be buried in some way, therefore, by its own standardized questionnaires for patients related to the quality of services in the hospital or outside the hospital sector, so that it should be considered whether this could be covered by this data and information law in the healthcare sector. The example of health care shows that the interaction of people, information and technology cannot work successfully without the ability and effective management of IT infrastructures, without successful management of quality information and without connection and successful communication, the sharing of powers and the role of all those who should manage the information. It is therefore necessary to promote behaviour and values that promote effective use of information, and in the case of health care, this is particularly relevant to increasing information integrity, transparency and control levels. You mentioned here that the Slovenians had set up a centre for information and health, we saw that in order to rationalise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it had reached a conclusion on the abolition of 54 state agencies, so now it would be a new agency, but why do I mention it? So I think that we should be with an affirmative attitude in terms of strengthening institutional capacity, while on the other hand we need to give less importance to provide technically-oriented projects and possibly to meet some private interests, private information companies. I think it should be there as much as possible as possible from the Ministry of Health because we saw that code... Any kind of expansion can be caused by so-called. Black boxing have certain problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96351	Thank you, fellow Cellic. Next debate, dear fellow professor. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In view of the times already ahead, let me only telegraphly indicate the main problems I see in this law. I don't think it's a question of the need for goals, tasks, obligations to create an effective health system. However, in my opinion, it is also necessary to consider what, if meant, is not precise, and if not meant, then the law should be done in that section that applies, to say in another dictionary, on the hardware basis of the creation of this informational, i.e. this information infrastructure. It is not necessary to provide additional funding since this law enforcement provision itself, because it is provided by the Ministry of Health at the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which already limits the fact that the implementation of this Act is solely in charge of this Ministry and these two institutions. However, the question arises, one fundamental issue in which this health information infrastructure is in relation to state or national information infrastructure. From this Law, except for one mark in Art. In 19th, if I am not mistaken, where it is said that it is mandatory to use the common components of that system simply is not clear enough. Especially since it's in this article. 14. says the ministry is responsible for developing information infrastructure in healthcare and will form a special design unit that deals with it, and then raises the question of what is the relationship with the central digitalisation office of Croatia, what are these relations? I'm thinking that when it comes to it, it can't be or-or but it has to be an i-i. And then this further raises the question of the relationship, and when it comes to coordinating the construction of the operation, connecting this structure and the expert finding, especially when it comes to the process of obtaining computer networks, information, communication, etc. other components of the whole system. In fact, what should make sense is that and what we can welcome from one side, it is that within the Ministry and health care all these processes and processes of digitisation that are clearly there and that is to be welcomed, but when we will come to talk about a whole national project of digitization of the state administration and all of these services, rather than partial projects that will only be united in future times. And especially if this national project that we call e-Croatia, if we want to link it to another project that we talked about in this assembly, which is the digitalisation project of the archive building and the archive of Croatia, because in my opinion, there should be at least one coordination between the digitisation of all these buildings produced in Croatia and especially in the state institutions and archives of Croatia, and I say, it would be best if we went to the same state information infrastructure that all the bodies of the state administration should use, all ministries would also be in the function of the archive of Croatia. Such a synthesis would be rational, and then a series of these problems about how data is processed, how the benefits are solved in a unique way, and it would be much simpler and more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96353	Thank you, dear Professor. Tudjman. Final word on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96354	... a very high-quality debate. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I'll try to look back at some of the points in the debate. I can go with this last of the professors. Tudjman. So, as for compliance with state infrastructure, we work closely with the Digital Society's Central Office. The Secretary of State for the Central Digital Society is a member of the eHealth Committee. As regards insurance of financial resources, that financial resources are provided, this is the next one, we have in the past year made 6 e-service development projects within the European Social Fund, which will be financed by 85% of the EU, which will cover the e- hospital project, e-HZZO, e-route, e-normisation and standardisation and e-... So the total value of 300 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about software here. So let's be that all hospitals will have compatible software, and as far as the hardware component is concerned, everything will be on the same state infrastructure as hardware, meaning within the Centre of shared services that are also foreseen by the Ministry of Administration and the Central State Office for Digital Society. I would also like to refer to the suggestions of the medical chamber and the central digital society. With the Central Digital Society, we're in sync. No, their member was involved in the draft of this law and all their remarks were consistent. As far as the medical chamber is concerned, some of us have accepted, some of us haven't. Since this is the first reading, we're open to further conversations. As far as the conflict is concerned, we have no conflict with the Law on State Infrastructure, which, since this Law passed also by the Committee on the Legislatives of the Government and the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, also the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has said that there are no further objections. I would also like to emphasise that there is a clear difference between health and medical records, where medical documentation is part of health. And finally, so I want to thank you once again for the debate, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96355	I thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96356	Proposal for a Data and Information Act in Health, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 422. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Data and Information Act in Health 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for, 3 abstentions and 6 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96357	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC First reading, P.Z.E. No. 423. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I call on State Secretary Tomislav Dulibic of the Ministry of Health to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The draft draft law ensures the implementation of Regulation 536 of 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20 of the European Community which have only partially been achieved by the EU clinical trials. Regulation 536 of 2014 simplified the resolution of requirements for the authorisation of clinical trials by submitting only one dossier with regard to the request of all Member States concerned through the single EU portal. This makes it easier for clinical trial authorities to carry out administrative procedures related to the approval of clinical trials of medicinal products, and Member States cooperate with each other through the portal to assess each individual study. The new approach will contribute to the speed of the process and will stimulate the inclusion of the largest possible number of Member States, thus fostering competitiveness and the implementation of clinical trials in the EU. In the field of clinical trials inspection, further Union controls shall be introduced, with the European Commission preparing in cooperation with Member States the control programme to ensure that Member States monitor compliance with the provisions of the Regulation. The aim of the draft bill is to ensure rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures while ensuring the safety and protection of respondents through detailed assessment of potential risks and a series of rules adopted by the Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96359	I thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of this bill. We have one replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96360	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State I have one question concerning a very important segment in all clinical trials, which is control and surveillance. Article 18 states that inspection supervision is carried out by authorised pharmaceutical inspectors of the ministry and that I do not further quote, that I do not bother colleagues and colleagues. I wonder how many pharmaceutical inspectors the ministry has, what are they still doing and how often do they conduct surveillance in the territory of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96361	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Secretary of State Dulibic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96362	Thank you very much. So right now we have two inspectors who are constantly on the ground doing their job regularly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96363	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Here are my esteemed colleagues, Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96364	Another greeting from the chairman, the government's representative. Therefore, at its 52nd session held on 3 October, the Committee also discussed this proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and leaving the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC. As the parent body, we discussed this law and, in its opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that this bill was primarily aimed at ensuring rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures, while ensuring the safety and protection of respondents through detailed assessment of potential risks and a series of rules adopted by the regulation. The legislative proposal ensures the implementation of the regulation that we have already stated, on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and the placing of a previous directive out of force. This simplifies the resolution of the requirements for the authorisation of a clinical trial by submitting only one dossier with regard to the request of all Member States concerned through a single portal. This makes it easier for clinical trial providers to carry out administrative procedures related to the approval of clinical trials of medicinal products, and Member States cooperate with each other through the portal to assess each individual study. The new approach will also bring about speed of procedures to contribute and stimulate the inclusion of the largest possible number of Member States and thus foster competitiveness and the implementation of clinical studies of medicines in the EU. In the field of clinical trials inspection, further Union controls shall be introduced, with the European Commission preparing itself in cooperation with Member States of the programme, controls to ensure that Member States monitor compliance with the provisions of this Regulation. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that this bill was adopted and that any observations which were in the debate would be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when the final draft law was drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96365	I thank my esteemed colleague, the chairman of the Health Committee, Mrs Ines Strenja-Linic. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96366	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, first reading of the proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20 EC. As a clinician with years of experience in clinical studies and now as a member of the Central Ethics Commission, I can say that replacing the 17-year-old directive is not only a harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with EU legislation, but also a better quality of drug studies, as well as greater safety for the subjects themselves who participate in these clinical studies. During the clinical trial, rights, health, dignity and well-being of subjects should be protected, and the data obtained should be reliable and consistent. The interest of the subject should always be preferred over all other interests in order to ensure an independent control of compliance with these principles for clinical trial needs prior authorisation. The concept of clinical study was more specifically defined by the introduction of a broader concept of clinical study with one of its categories of clinical trial. The 2001 Directive aimed at simplifying and harmonising administrative provisions in clinical trials in the Union, however, experience shows that a harmonised approach to the regulation of clinical trials has only been partially achieved. Based on the development of science, it can be concluded that future clinical trials will focus on a population of patients who are more specific, such as subgroups determined by means of... information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to include a sufficient number of patients for such clinical trials, many or all Member States should be involved. The legal form of the regulation is a priority for test and investigators, so the differences in access between different Member States are reduced to a minimum. The time limits for assessing the documentation regarding the request for approval of clinical trials should be sufficient to assess the documentation and at the same time should ensure rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures and ensure that the Union remains an attractive place for conducting clinical trials. In the context of this Directive, the concept of silent authorisation was introduced in 2001. This concept should be maintained in order to ensure that deadlines are observed. The Regulation encourages clinical studies to develop medicines for rare diseases and medicinal products intended for subjects suffering from serious and exhausting diseases and often life-threatening, which affects up to 1 in 50 000 people in the Union, and speaks of extremely rare diseases. Member States should assess all requirements for clinical trials effectively and within the specified time limit. The safety risk of subjects in a clinical trial mainly stems from two choices, the drug studied and intervention, however, many clinical trials pose only a minimal additional risk to the safety of subjects compared to normal clinical practice. These low-risk clinical trials are often crucial to assessing the usual treatment and diagnosis that optimises drug use and thus contributes to a high level of public health. These clinical trials should be subject to less strict monitoring rules, requirements for the content of the main file and traceability of the medicinal products examined. In order to improve treatment procedures available to vulnerable groups such as insufferable or older people, people with multiple chronic diseases and people with mental disorders should be fully and adequately studied for the effects of medicinal products that may be of significant clinical value in these specific groups, also as regards requirements relating to their specific characteristics and health protection and welfare of subjects belonging to these groups. The law, though exceptionally, lays down clear rules on informed consent in emergency situations. These situations refer to cases where a patient, for example, he receives a sudden life-threatening disease resulting from multiple injuries, strokes or heart attacks and needs urgent medical intervention. The clinical trial in question should be directly related to a health condition that makes it impossible to obtain prior informed consent from the subject or from his legally appointed representative within the therapeutic window. A large part of the clinical trials are conducted by non-commercial contracting authorities. Non-commercial customers often rely on funding that comes in part or entirely from public funds or charities in order to maximise the valuable contribution of such non-commercial suppliers and to encourage their further research, without jeopardising the quality of clinical trials, it is necessary for Member States to take measures to encourage clinical trials conducted by non-commercial contracting authorities. This Regulation seeks to achieve an internal market in relation to clinical trials and medicinal products for human use and is based on a high level of health protection. This Regulation also lays down high standards of quality and safety of medicinal products in order to meet the normal safety requirements regarding these products, all with a view to ensuring rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures while at the same time adopting a set of rules on the safety and protection of subjects. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the first reading of the draft Law implementing Regulation No 536/2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96367	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for this debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96368	Thank you. In order to protect the rights of health, dignity and well-being of subjects and to obtain reliable and consistent data during clinical studies of medicinal products, Regulation 536 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001 has been adopted. So the Most will support the law implementing this Regulation to stimulate the inclusion of the largest possible number of Member States and thus boost the competitiveness and implementation of clinical trials of medicinal products in the EU. The application will simplify the procedures for the submission of documentation concerning the application for authorisation of a clinical trial through a single portal, avoiding multiple submissions of mostly identical clinical trial information and replacing the submission of a single dossier, as we have already said. But I would now like to say something about clinical trials currently in Croatia and the advantages we have been missing for years. So clinical trials are direct investments in Croatia and its health system. Patients are given rapid and direct access to the latest medicines, and doctors are given new scientific knowledge and therapeutic options. Patients participating in clinical trials are given access to the latest innovative medicines that are not normally available on the Croatian market. This is particularly important for cancer patients who are often the last to continue treatment and prolong life and have rare diseases. The benefits and health system because they achieve savings, since the cost of treatment and diagnostic procedures is fully covered by the surveyor. However, the process of approval and negotiation of clinical trials in the Republic of Croatia is too long compared to other European countries. It lasts on average for 8 months, which is twice as long, for example. but in one Hungary. Furthermore, investment in the Republic of Croatia is currently only 9.2 euros per capita for clinical trials. There are currently 200 thousand clinical trials in the world that invests 16 billion euros annually, and it is worrying that 40m euros are invested in the Republic of Croatia annually, and only 9.2 euros per capita, respectively. In Slovenia, for example, It invests 161m euros annually in clinical trials, and in the Republic of Croatia, as we said about 20 million, i.e. in Slovenia as many as 81 euros per capita, in Hungary 158m euros per year, it is 16 euros per capita while in Belgium it invests 2.4 and in Denmark 1.4 billion euros per year. So, compared to the Republic of Croatia, I said wrong a little while ago, 40 million euros. Imagine in one Belgium 2.4 billion euros. According to the Ministry of Health in Croatia, 193 clinical trials are currently being conducted and several are being approved. 69 new clinical trials were approved last year, and in the first few months of this year only 7. From 2009 on average, 65 studies were granted annually. The largest number refers to the study of medicinal products for cancer, chronic inflammatory diseases such as chronic disease, rheumatoid arthritis, cardiovascular disease, multiplesclerosis, diabetes, etc. For example, it is. 61 new clinical trials were agreed in KBC last year. Most of all, for example. In KBC, Rebro also implements it at the internal illness clinic 26 etc. In River 49 interrogations. So what is really the importance of clinical trials and how much of this kind of law we needed. Under the current Regulation, in order for a clinical trial of a new medicinal product to begin, it should first be given within 30 days by the Central Ethics Committee on the basis of a very extensive dossier that is required to be provided by the researcher. However, this deadline is often a problem because of the need for further clarifications and documentation as well as the fact that this body meets only once a month. On the basis of a positive opinion, the examination shall then be approved within 30 days by the Ministry of Health. After that, the negotiation process begins with every health institution where the examination is to be conducted, and since there is no deadline for the conclusion of these contracts, the process can be significantly strained. Clinical trials are inevitable because there is no new drug without a previous study, colleague Bulj. For Croatia as a small country, participation in clinical studies is of great importance because they benefit patients who thus get a new treatment option that they would otherwise not otherwise have, as well as the health system and society as a whole is significantly helping our weaker financial opportunities to pay for expensive forms of treatment. It should be noted that we have clinical trials mostly in the 3rd and 4th classes, when the efficacy of this medicinal product has already been demonstrated. So, not when working on healthy volunteers, but when it's already working on patients, which means it's phase 3 and 4. Clinical studies of the medicinal product are therefore carried out in Phase 4. The average is 10 years and the average cost of research is 1.6 billion euros. Medicinal products enter the phase of clinical trials only after there is sufficient firm evidence that the new medicinal product may outweigh the effectiveness of existing medicinal products or be safer to be administered. And that's why this law is important. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia needs to take a clear view and strategy in order to become a country desirable for conducting clinical trials. This includes systematic education of the professional medical public, timely information to patients on clinical trials and the establishment of a national clinical trial registry. Since there are still prejudices in the Republic of Croatia on clinical trials of medicinal products as kind of experiments on humans, the pharmaceutical industry notes that it is strictly controlled processes led by the best healthcare professionals who are daily in contact with patients with the goal of improving outcomes. And therefore the Most Independent Lists will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96369	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of this brief debate, as more or less everything is said so far, I would like to stress that the SDP Representatives' Club will also support the Proposal for this Law because it aims to ensure faster access to new innovative treatment procedures while, of course, ensuring maximum safety and protection of all respondents. As the State Secretary pointed out, further Union controls are being introduced in the field of clinical trials inspection, with the European Commission preparing in cooperation with Member States a control programme to determine whether Member States are monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Regulation which is the subject of this Act. But of course the question is that two pharmaceutical inspectors who have the authority to control a whole series of other legal assumptions about normal system and pharmacy and health care will control all clinical studies to be conducted in the Republic of Croatia, so I suggest that the Secretary of State provide funding in the budget for the employment of a number of pharmaceutical inspectors. What I would like to emphasise for the public, if they look at us, once again, that the provisions of this Law apply to clinical trials of medicinal products in the Republic of Croatia, that this Law does not apply to non-interventional studies and that, there are no colleagues of Bulja, there is, a clinical study of gene therapy that can cause genetic changes in the reproductive cells of subjects not to be conducted, since it has often touched these topics in its discussions. Of course, once again, it should be said that the benefits of this Act are not only for Croatian patients who will thus have the possibility of treating the latest medicines but also for investing in this job with clinical studies in Croatia could bring more than 200m euros, since the total amount, as also mentioned by her colleague Strenja-Linić, total global investment related to clinical studies is as much as 16 billion euros. Therefore, 69 clinical studies were approved last year. I believe that the basis of this Law will increase and that the Republic of Croatia will draw closer to the countries in the environment that have a far greater number of clinical studies that thus ensure faster access to innovative therapies for their patients and provide additional income to health systems in their environments. As we have heard, this process has taken too long for us and I hope that this legislative proposal will significantly shorten it and this point is also connected to the previous one, since it is clear that inclusion in clinical studies also requires the availability of quality data and information so that these data and information can be based on clinical trials. Therefore, it is also necessary to provide a quality national clinical trial register here. Therefore, as a club, we support this legislative proposal and we also propose that in transitional provisions that are said to be adopted within 12 months, that the deadline be split and that all legal acts be passed within 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96371	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Next debate, dear colleague Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96372	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we understand that this legislative proposal is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The existing Regulation sought to simplify and harmonise administrative provisions on clinical trials of medicinal products in the EU, however, experience has shown that a harmonised approach to the regulation of clinical trials has only been partially achieved. Therefore, provisions have been adopted to simplify the procedures for the submission of documentation concerning the application for approval of a clinical trial through a single portal to avoid multiple submission, mainly identical information on a clinical trial and to replace it with the submission of one dossier with documentation relating to the request of all the Member States concerned. Of course I welcome this bill that introduces order in one segment of healthcare which is certainly useful and welcome to the health system of the Republic of Croatia. It is known that clinical trials in EU countries are far more usable, and I am sure that, on the basis of this, all the administrations of our health institutions want to increase the amount of research in their environments. The clinical hospital center Osijek, whose employee I am, is also one of those subjects who is certainly getting the latest innovative medicines from many clinical studies, to get the same preparations in the public health system for free of charge for our patients, and thus we put our health care at an even higher level than we were allowed to do before. I must say that certain financial resources are also received in this procedure which can improve the existing conditions of treatment in which we are working. Thanks to these very valuable and above all professional, competent workers who had enough knowledge and courage to engage in these kinds of jobs, we stand by colleagues and colleagues working on prestigious European and world medical centres. This uniquely uniform way of reporting all clinical studies to be conducted in the future in the EU will certainly facilitate administrative management and start-up, which, in today's conditions, has sometimes slowed down the process of entering the project itself. Since we have some experience with clinical trials so far, I recommend that our resolution ministry here, Secretary of State, consider and analyse the role of each entity in these projects in the coming period, and ultimately make clear recommendations to all participants who are their obligations and rights in such procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96373	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kopic. We have a replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kopić thank you for talking about the experiences in KBC because you reminded me that I did not mention in my debate one important fact, and it concerns precisely all of the most qualified employees of our health institutions who are working in clinical trials because it cannot be done by someone who does not really have high competence, and that is that at the time when we have tax reform in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, there is also a need for revision of the interpretation of existing tax rules that reduces the financial compensation of drug-examining teams. I think that the finance minister should also consider these requirements in order to ensure that all of these high-quality people receive a certain financial compensation which is currently burdened with interpretations of tax rules in a way that reduces their financial compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96375	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Answer, colleague Kopic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96376	I thank you both for these words and for the experiences you have shown. Of course, the state should provide frameworks in which the clinical trials themselves will be carried out as much as possible in our institutions. We can praise and encourage ourselves in the Republic of Croatia with our experienced people working all over this, but here I am saying on the trail of all this, I am sure that the RES will work on making as much income as possible from this kind of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96377	I thank my colleague Kopić for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, for the reasons and for the answers. With this, we have exhausted all points of the agenda, respected colleagues and colleagues for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with agenda item Final draft law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021 between the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia. Second law reading, P.Z. Number 427. And I thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. Session interrupted in 20.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-04-0.u96378	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 423. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposed Laws and 1st Amendments are hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 98 votes for and 3 votes have been abstentioned to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs and MPs, please allow a few words before continuing because on Monday 8 October we are celebrating Independence Day of the Republic of Croatia. 27 years ago, on October 8, 1991, the Croatian Parliament made a unanimous decision to break up the state legal bond between the Republic of Croatia and other republics and provinces of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In that decision, the Croatian Parliament found that the Republic of Croatia no longer considers any body of the former State legitimate or legal and that it no longer recognises any legal act of any body acting on behalf of the former Federation which no longer exists. This Decision was adopted by the Assembly after the previous day on the basis of the Brijuni Declaration as a quarterly moratorium on the Constitutional Decision on independence and sovereignty adopted by the Assembly on 25 June. A day earlier, JNA aircraft bombed the historic core of Zagreb and the Ban Court in an attempt to kill the Croatian leadership headed by the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Due to these circumstances, the historic session of the Parliament was not held in the building of the Croatian Parliament but second place in the INA building in Šubića Street in Zagreb. The decision to break up the state legal bond between the Republics and the provinces of the SFRY was the final point of ending Croatia's deleveraging process from the former state. This decision, together with the Constitutional Decision on independence and sovereignty and the declaration of the declaration of independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, confirmed the right of the Croatian people to national autonomy, self-determination and the right to a sovereign independent and independent state. The right of the Croatian people to be declared plebiscitarian in a referendum held on 19 May of the same year, wishing to finally achieve a free state based on democracy, the rule of law, multilaterals and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. By its decision of 8 October 1991, The Croatian Parliament has once again shown, as has many times during the long centuries of Croatian history, that it is the real holder and guardian of the sovereignty of the Croatian people and of the legal order. Since 8 October 1991 Croatia is starting its path as a sovereign, independent and independent state fighting for international recognition. International recognition of Croatia ended the diplomatic battle for its independence, but due to great Serbian aggression, it was forced to continue fighting for its sovereignty and territorial integrity until 1998 when it returned the Croatian Danube to its constitutional legal order with peaceful reintegration. In defence of modern Croatian statehood, freedom and democracy, many Croatian defenders gave their lives. Therefore, the Homeland War and its values are the cornerstone of the existence of today's Croatia, and our obligation and responsibility are to preserve them and leave them in the legacy of a future generation. Dear MPs and MPs, the Croatian Parliament played a key role in making important decisions to create and defend an independent, independent and democratic Croatia. Today, when we have an independent Croatian state, our responsibility and the only interest must be that all together, in a spirit of mutual respect, we build Croatia as a safe and prosperous country of strong institutions, the rule of law and social security, economically developed and demographically restored with a expressed social sense of justice and solidarity, the protection of family and its values, and the achievement of conditions for strengthening the position of young people. It is our responsibility to respect and listen to the messages of all Croatian citizens through our serious, systematic, courageous and consistent actions in dialogue and tolerance. This year's Independence Day, as you may already know, will be marked on Monday 8 October in St. Mark at 12 o'clock with the last annual ceremony of a large guard shift, and the Croatian Assembly as representative body of Croatian citizens will open their doors from 10 to 17 o'clock. So I invite you all to be here together and celebrate our national holiday. Once again for you and all Croatian citizens and citizens in the country and abroad, as well as for all Croatians and Croats living in Croatia and outside Croatia, I congratulate the Day of Independence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
