ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90318	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. Here, I'm going to try first on behalf of the promoter, as you have announced in a united manner to present these two bill proposals, in the time I have, I'm going to say, of course, a few things that have driven us to these proposals, the situation and the general problem of our fellow citizens who are under blockades. For many years, it has certainly been one of the basic reasons, why and in the programme itself, if you will, and then, of course, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, we have made it very clear that we will try to find a legal and other solution, in order to facilitate Croatian citizens, to help these challenging situations, but also, of course, stick to the principles that actually apply and should apply to the Republic, which are primarily the rule of law. So, taking care of the protection of the rights of creditors, the protection of the rights of debtors, but also, let us not disregard the rights of all Croatian citizens, all taxpayers, who, despite all their difficulties, challenges, meet their obligations neatly. Data and figures, I would say to all of you and the Croatian public are quite well known. So we're talking to the 31.5th state, so the latest data that my colleagues here are also present with me, from the IRS, from the Ministry of Finance and the FINA. FINA runs the statistics and publishes them on a monthly basis with 31.5.2018. 326 thousand 379 Croatian citizens with the amount of blockade that misses 42 billion kuna. In these 42 billion kunas there are debts to the main and processing costs, while in particular there is something more than 21-22 billion kuna interest on that same debt. So that's what I'd say is the condition we're following, I repeat once again, not just year after year, but we follow from month to month, and we're very well aware of ourselves, all these numbers, difficulties and problems, even though we also know well, when we're looking at the structure of the total dog block, that inside, I'd say there's this simplisticity of everything. We have very different situations, different examples, and surely we can't draw a unique conclusion from all of this and say that the reason is one or the other and that such a very complex and difficult situation can be resolved by one measure, by one set of measures, or in some way, what we say and Colloquial overnight. As for the very structure of these debts, the largest number of Croatian citizens, in terms of the number of citizens under the blockade, is therefore due to debts towards companies, which are within the telecoms segment, however, as far as the total amount of blockades is concerned, there is the most financial industry, mainly the bank. Over the past few years, one of the most important factors in terms of creditors has been specialized agencies, which deal with the purchase of claims and which, of course, operate in the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. As for these proposals of the Law, 2 are concrete, which came from the Ministry of Finance, after today's debate, you will hear of course the third, which is the package, which the government, comes before the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. It's from the Department of Justice's office. I'll start by proposing a law on the write-off of debts to natural persons first. I repeat it once again on the trail of what we have written in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme following the analysis, after the simulations and everything that we normally do in normal and standard procedures, in this particular case the Ministry of Finance with the involvement of other ministries or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so we went even a little bit stronger in terms of the possibility of these write-offs and layoffs towards Croatian citizens compared to what was originally promised or said in the programme itself. So out of the total number of citizens, one more piece of information to say over a year, 85% of citizens are under blockades. So blockades over a year older than a year refer to more than 85% of all citizens under blockades. If we look a little further for three years, I have deliberately been apostrophe here for three years because this information will also be important for this second bill of law that I will present to you 66, so two-thirds of Croatian citizens when we look at each of them in their numbers, there are practically blockages for more than three years. This bill allows us to write down the principal up to 10,000 kunas with the need to note that in the bill itself we have made a distinction and categorization between two groups or groups of creditors. In the first group of creditors, I will list them here taxively as stated in the law are the Republic of Croatia, the budgetary and extra-financial users of the state budget, which are in the register of budgetary and non-financial users, companies exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia, legal entities to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is located in the Register of Commercial Companies and other legal persons, bonds to make a declaration of fiscal responsibility, and published by the Ministry of Finance. If we might simplify and Colloquially say it would be a central central state and what is in its hands in some way, but there are also among other things already mentioned and companies that are exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia. The group of creditors, therefore, write down to the first group of creditors up to 10,000 kunas to Croatian citizens for automation in the sense that all citizens who have debts to those creditors are reduced by a maximum of 10,000 kuna. As regards other groups of creditors, the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government located in the register of budgetary and extra-financial users, financial institutions, all other legal persons and natural persons performing the registered activity. For this second group of creditors, given and, of course, our legal order, the Constitution and everything that is related to it in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot impose or impose on anyone, but by this bill and by this payphone, I believe that many of you and in your discussions and discussions during today will appeal to and mainly local units, and then, of course, all the other creditors follow this example that we have said will make the credentials of Group 1 so that they will also contribute to reducing the amount of blockades through the element and model of the write-off or forgiveness of debt. However, in order to give me one and a kind of incentive to the creditors of Group 2 in this proposal, a provision has been put in place, where, in other words, some of the creditors will be able to make a greater write-off, but up to 10,000 kuna, where they are recognised in terms of tax-recognized expenditure, therefore there are certain tax implications in terms of reducing their base. But of course I repeat it once again, it is an institute that is not new in the Croatian Parliament, is not presented for the first time and sure that we also view it as something that might have and should have certain positive implications. What is also important is that this final bill will also propose to that remaining part of the debt to allow for the possibility of something that is also well linked again to the existing tax regulations, primarily to allow the remaining part of the debt to be made possible by the ring payment model. We have defined in the proposal of the five-class bill up to a maximum of 60 months depending on the amount of the blockade, so for the amounts of the blockade, we can call them so greater than 500,000 kuna, it is possible even up to five years of round payment, of course, as is the practice of expressing that desire, will or burden on certain Croatian citizens. Also important to say, perhaps I didn't mention it at the beginning here we're talking about the amount of blockades that were worth on 31.12.2017 and this bill as we propose it and it actually has its effect and effect one-time. So one time to make that write-off or to forgive the debt for the blockades on 31.12.2017. Today we are discussing it in the Croatian Parliament, what is important to mention is its operational or operationalisation or operational implementation, which is that it would best be in some way to say that it takes effect for the weekend, which would then allow our colleagues and colleagues in FINA to process all this information and implementation in the work of the provisions of this law, or in other words, Croatian citizens, or those who are blocked practically do nothing in terms of any application or any going to the counters themselves of FINA. Otherwise we've done a simulation, which would mean in a specific case of course. You won't mind me saying so, but the other day we had at the Committee of Finance, so I have the data from that date, so only a few days have passed, that's the data at 22.6.2018. So these 10,000 kunas of forgiveness or discharge to the debtors of the first group would mean that 844 million 352 thousands of capital would be written off. There is practically a translation meaning that this would include 153,000 864 citizens of the Republic of Croatia for them 6 thousand 672 would mean total deblockation. So these 6 thousand 672 citizens are under a blockade of up to 10 thousand kunas exclusively to the believers of group one. When that signature occurs, so I repeat once again 6000 672 will be completely unblocked. Of course, I repeat once again for all others according to the proposal of this law the possibility of naturally paying off the remaining debt in a way that would also help if, of course, they were able to settle their obligations in a certain time horizon and of course what is in some way in the interest and the goal of getting out of the blockades. Otherwise, I did not mention the biggest creditors of this first group, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, so all services related to the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance, including tax administration and customs services and others, were then HRT and HZZO. These three credentials of the already mentioned 844 million capitals have distributed about 700 million. So we can say that these 3 first or leading or on Group I credentials are practically more than 80% of the total debt written down by law itself. As far as the second bill of law is concerned, he, unlike this first one, is talking about the proposal for a law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, unlike the said Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons does not have only a one-time effect but still has a continuous effect. I think that, as far as the history of the Law on the implementation of money enforcement is concerned, this High House has also discussed it several times in discussions about the law itself in the past and in many other situations and cases where, among other things, certain illogicalities, imperfections, if you want to end up with anomalies. And we've also identified some of these anomalies, and that's why, among other things, we're going into the amendment proposal, that is, given the amount of changes here, we're talking about a whole new law. Three key news that this bill is actually proposing. I'll go back to my opening part when I just apostrophe that two-thirds of the total debt block is, so we're talking debt or blocks or executions for over three years. We have here data that the probability of a charge or a success, not only a probability but the success of a three-year blockage is 1.19%, 1.19% is the success of a blockage charge above 3 years. At the same time FINA as a financial institution which, I will very clearly and responsibly say already in the opening section in not a small number of cases unfairly accused of being guilty of not knowing what, FINA is exclusively a financial institution which is actually delegated by the letter of the law to implement certain measures defined in certain legal regulations. Among other things, FIN keeps that statistics and, of course, all of us together, transparently publishes all of this data. This data is also from FINA, so I repeat for the third time, 1.19% is the success of the charge based on blocks older than 3 years. With this in mind, one of the key news that we propose by this bill is to limit the duration of the money only for natural persons, of course, for legal persons the bankruptcy procedure that we know about and how it is defined. Today for the extrajudicial purpose, there is no prescribed end to the exercise and therefore this exercise can last forever, that is, until the death of the citizen himself and even continue after the death of the heirs. With this law, we propose that if the demand from the payment base is not charged by the performers of a natural person in full within 3 years of receiving in FINA after there has been no payment for that basis for the last 6 months consecutively from the account of that performer, FINA shall cease to comply with this payment base. I'm back a little bit on these 1.19s again, so it's a three-year-old exercise, and there's still a criterion here that the last six months are out of traffic. There, we can freely conclude that the percentage is then even lower than those mentioned 1.19. The perpetrator will not have to submit requirements in FINA, so as with this first law, we do not do additional administration for a large number of Croatian citizens and citizens that they have to go to the counter and generally in FINA, so it comes to an end with automation. As in the previous law, the intention is therefore, if we are looking at sequentially, this law should enter into force after the first law, we should again aim for it to be the entry into force, weekend, Saturday best in order for FINA officials and the entire institution to succeed electronically and digitally in carrying out all of this in the law itself. However, it is very important to note, so by this act of debt does not stop, there we must be very clear and open right at the very beginning, neither was it actually envisaged nor... So the debt doesn't stop, it stops because it's impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, an executive may launch an application on another subject of the performance or re-launch a trust over money in the FINA if it considers that there is a possibility of payment. So here, I repeat this measure once again, so for all over 3 years if there was no traffic on the account for 6 months, FINA returns all the documents to the believer or to the superintendent. He of course has the possibility of either returning to FINA and restarting the execution or running the execution perhaps through another instrument or other documentation. However, what is important, so at that moment, is that there is a registration from the statistics of FINA and then of course we are monitoring new statistics whether something is returning or not to FINA or whether another measure is being taken. However, in that very sense, we have also proposed all the additional ones that we have called the key amendments to this law, which is to change the way in which the fee is charged. Under this new law, the executive will assume the costs of running an operation in the FINA. To this day, if you want it free, everything seems at cost, not free of charge, to say for free to the executives, all happens practically, depending on the cost of FINA, so it's all the cost of FINA, and here I have to take this opportunity, the other day on the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, I said that, so when this bill came into effect originally, the trucks were literally coming in front of FINA, landing documents on blockades or executions for several years and even more than a decade. All of this had to be done, of course, because she was in charge of the letter of the law, to register, to put in the system, and all of us together, of course I repeat once again, to monthly inform, to report that the state of affairs was moving according to these performances and which is their very structure. So in this part, this element that is being taken over at the new cost of carrying out the performance, we find it, it's hard to make any assessment, it's really hard, I'll say it's almost impossible, we can do some evaluations but it's really hard to go out with them publicly, and it's that we end up thinking there's a reduction in the amount of compensation expected. The more we did the third element as a key change, which is that the executive will be able to obtain data from the FINA on the blocking of the account. What else can affect its rationale and generally decide whether to launch a decision on money, say at FINA, if it sees that there are performances on some other grounds, whether they are in motion, whether they are standing and only knowing the situation that perhaps ultimately decides not to run it, and then we do not have this situation that we have today. Otherwise, this final bill of law regarding the implications themselves, so the number of perpetrators that will be immediately unblocked, I repeat for the second time, but their debt does not stop, does not disappear, will be 71,291 performers. The amount of debt recorded in the eyewitness will be reduced by 32 billion kuna. So there are large numbers, there are large amounts but I repeat once again, that doesn't mean permanent debt elimination. After that, of course, Finna and all of us will be watching what's going to happen together, but once again I point to my opening part of the reasoning of this law that was the main reasons why we decided to take this measure. Otherwise, what I can say is that with this package of two laws that you have now heard, later in the day you will hear a fellow Bosniak in terms of the third law in the package is something I repeat once again, as the Government has made it clear that it is our responsibility and in some way a duty towards Croatian citizens and our fellow citizens who have been blocked for many years. Also looking at and analysing all this data, we are well aware I believe that a good part of Croatian citizens and our citizens did not get into this situation with their own will and their own guilt. A number of elements, a number of factors in the past, this did not occur overnight affected that this number I would say would occur, perhaps not to this many levels but certainly to come up with these phenomenal forms and certainly that these citizens should be seen in both ways and how to help. However, there is no need to ignore the fact that in this number of over 326 000 blocked, there is also a good part of them, or our fellow citizens who are here among other things because it may have been a bad business decision, a failed investment business venture or perhaps some decisions that were practically shown financially and economically ineligible and unwarranted. And that is why it is a great challenge to propose such a package of laws and to generally resolve such a problem because in this particular case we are actually talking about a very thin line between what our tasks and obligations are in accordance with both our Constitution and all the positive regulations and what we have declared, which is to protect the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia as well as the creditors and debtors, but I would say in this particular case, we should not ignore the rights of all our citizens who, despite all our challenges and difficulties, are calming their obligations. And surely, if you want both in the public and in the media queries or analyses of these proposals, there is a question of moral gambling, and in some ways the proposal for such legal provisions means whether it is an incentive for Croatian citizens not to comply. I think you should also make it very clear from this pay phone, I hope that you too, regardless of what, I believe both opinions and criticisms and comments and in many ways believe and dissuasive thinking, but still support all together that regardless of these proposals of the law and in general, it is our duty of course to encourage orderly reconciliation of obligations of Croatian citizens. What I can finally say is that I don't take all 30 minutes of the opening, that as for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, one of the elements we are also working very intensively, it is classified in the field of preventive action, preventive action that does not occur in this situation in the future, and this is among other things the financial description of Croatian citizens and fellow citizens. So there are a number of statistics, charts, comparisons with other countries, I have to say that according to the OECD methodology of some 30 countries, Croatia is unfortunately not only in the lower half but at the bottom in terms of financial description. It's an obligation, the task of all of us together. You can't put a finger on anyone and say it's for one reason or another, but in front of all of us, it's really a commitment that every single person in their area is interresorially, interinstitutionally raising the level of financial literacy, if you want from elementary, basic education, of course, to lifelong education. Our citizens, of course, deserve full and real information and you know that in the Croatian Parliament not only before the formal accession of the EU, but also after the past period a whole series of laws, mainly from the section of the financial system, we have proposed which, in line with EU directives that would raise the level of consumer protection, but also their better information. So information, education, all this goes up and comes into the sphere of prevention which is actually what I would say, unsustainably important amongst other things and on the topics that we are talking about today. Here, I want to thank you all for your attention, of course, and here we are all ready and available for all your questions and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90319	Thank you, Minister. It's not a replica, it's something else you're looking for? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90320	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's not a replica. Just one technical question related to this debate. Since we have united two points of the agenda, since I believe there is an extremely great interest in discussing these points, my proposal would be to extend the debate time for clubs from 15 to 20 minutes in accordance with good parliamentary practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90321	I accept the proposal, so that's fine. It's okay. Now let's go to the replicas. The first is the honorable colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90322	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I can't look back in the replica at everything the minister said. However, I will look back on a problem related to the Law that regulates debt write-off issues. A problem that I think is a very serious nature. Namely, art. 5. The law stipulates that the debtor, which is the basis of this Law, is the only one over whom the financial assets are carried out by the account. So I want it to be completely clear. Article 5 You have defined by law that all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who owe to the believers in Group 1 and they are subject to an implementation, for example, on real estate, because the Law we adopted last year does not have any feedback or on movements are not covered by this Act. So if your performance is carried out on your movements, you won't get a write-off regardless of what you couldn't influence. So I'm asking you to answer me why you didn't cover everything... a formal procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90323	Thank you. Minister? Minister, would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90324	It is true that you interpreted the provision of the article. 5. The law. The reason, I would say, is quite simple, and that's the order of the collection itself by means of instruments. First it moves and starts on money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90325	Second replica, dear colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90326	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Maric, your reform is going completely wrong. Here, your own 42 billion main figures plus the cost of the execution plus 22 billion interest on all of that. These are the mountains and mountains of debts that have been created in this country since 2011 since then, the current Minister Bosnjakovic pushed for a change in the executive law in this parliament. All this time, unfair debts are generated because of the middleman, because of the law offices, because of the FINA, because of the agencies that resell debts, because of the public notebooks, and it's all been buzzing for a good decade, and now that we're in front of this problem, you instead of contesting... not that debt, you leave that debt to remain and to continue to generate, and you go to charge it by forcing Croatian citizens into bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's totally blaming the approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90327	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90328	Well, of course we can't agree on how you feel about me, so can I. It's conceptual that I don't repeat or have time now, all of what I've said at the outset, I've actually explained the reasons, the basis and the basic principles that we've been leading among other things, in the proposal for these two laws, or this package of measures. Maybe I'll just add one more detail. I said 85% of Croatian citizens have blocked for more than a year. When you look at the amount of blocks, it's 97% of all the blocks are over a year. And if we look at the structure of that debt, over a year then they're really very much too, I'll say by quotes, interesting data when you see that those amounts of blocks are, say, 5, 10 and similar years also pretty high in total statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90329	Third replica, dear colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90330	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, it is good that the public, the media, and the citizens themselves have forced the government to try to do something as little as possible. We'll remember here, everyone, that there have been amendments to the executive law here at the Most Initiative. There were also 10 amendments that were then in line with a letter from the president asking the Parliament to do something. However, these amendments have been rejected. Now, here's to later brains after a year we're going to do something and not enough again. What's gonna happen to us? That part of our citizens' debts will be written off at the FINA, which does not mean that they will not be able to restart the procedure. We'll have one positive report in a few months. The government will boast, you and the prime minister will hold some kind of press, and nothing will actually change. It's good to talk about this, but I'm repeating this again isn't enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90331	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90332	As regards, of course, this democratic dialogue that you mention, I think it is certainly a good and useful thing and that in the Croatian Assembly and the position and opposition talk about the current topics that we hear, of course, the public and the eco public and hear both the profession and all the expensive and that, among other things, we think about it all together, and ultimately, it is the responsibility of the executive authority. But, of course, there are some sequences of it all, I would say, however, if the sequences were to say, if we were in this problem, we had already announced that we were going to work, so nobody forced us to do something here, though. But I also have to absorb all these restrictions, again which I was talking about, because here, I have already mentioned several times, I will do so today and now correspond to your replica, so the principle of rule of law is certainly at the very top of respect, we're a social state that needs to protect the faithful and the debtors, but let's not neglect, however, we must protect very much, and all the taxpayers who are doing their duties neatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90333	4th replica, Col. Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90334	Thank you. I have a specific question for you ministers. So, about these 6672 perpetrators you mentioned. I've received several, through several, e-mails, information that is very similar, which is that in these cases, it's about those debtors whose tax debt, already, according to the general tax law, has become obsolete, so I'm wondering if that's exactly what that information is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90335	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90336	Thank you very much for asking. I have to admit that with such information, I don't have the means to confirm it, but I can't fully deny it. I think the statistics themselves, like the FINA and the IRS, still distinguish between that whole part, so I think that effect will be naturally visible. I repeat once again and well that you said that number too, because, of course, behind these figures are actually real citizens, our fellow citizens by name and last name, and not by number. So, 6672 I have to apostrophe something that I didn't say in the introduction, in our original proposal that went public counseling, were bought by the first group's creditors was the intended unit of local and regional self-government. But there were certain comments, constructive but certain criticisms, that it might involve certain constitutional charges, to counter the Convention on Local Self-Government, so we put them in Group 2. If that were the case of how original we are, this number would have gone up somewhere, from over 11,000. But we still believe that regardless of not being in the group one they will follow this example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90337	5th replica, dear colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90338	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here, we've always been aware of the problem of actually blocked citizens, what is that number. But what should be noted is that since 2011 when FINA was authorized to collect all data, and sublime it, then that total number has proved to be such a large number. By then, they actually ran individual business banks and then such data, only partly FINA had in its system. That is why we cannot say that this problem exists only since 2011. It has existed before. I have to say to these comments that, it's very good and we have to solve this problem, I wish it were more citizens, that it would finally be released from this debt. However, what is to be said in the structure of the debt itself, when seen as being out of 107 000 debtors who owe less than 10000 kn, is over 58%, so 188,000 debtors who are in debt to teleopers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90339	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90340	Thank you well-respected MPs, perhaps just take the opportunity to respond to the replica. You've done well to apostrophe that, like me in the opening, that in a number of situations, I've said unfairly, FINA was accused or in some way put into the category of some kind of culprit for this state. I repeat once again the financial agency, for which I personally and as Minister of Finance, I deeply believe that one very valuable and important institution in our complete system and which performs very responsible and demanding tasks and officials and, of course, to the leadership itself should always be given positive criticism, but of course also commended for certain work. I think they were the clean enforcers of what was written in the law in this case. I have mentioned here a case that is not only of a Colloquial nature, but indeed it was, therefore, the whole and whole electronic processing, and when this law, hopefully, will come into force again on the officers of the FINA, to be carried out in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90341	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90342	Thank you, Chairman, it's an injured officer. 238. Minister Maric insults us here by saying that FINA is not responsible, please, who charges 20 kn per page to citizens in the blockade?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90343	My colleague Sincic, you have earned a warning. This is really not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I beg you not to do this. Let's move on, to which the Bund, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90344	Thank you very much, Minister Maric, here we go in this one minute, to do something concrete, I ask you to level the practice of paying off the regresses, the goddesses and jubilee rewards and severances, because some workers get their hands on it, and others don't, and I believe that you in the government have enough priorities, that all blocked, consume it in the same way. The second thing, you're saying you're writing out 10000 kn from the FINA, only from the FINA, I'm wondering if that's 10000 kn of the cost of the procedure and the interest and the principal, or if that's 10000 kn of the principal, where interest and the costs of the procedure would be written off along with that principal. So please explain to the public what you write down? Because if you write off only interest, then it's basically not a real write-off debt, basically today, more or less all the believers do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90345	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90346	Thank you, Your Honor, as far as this first part is concerned, you know well that as regards the unification of practices and the elements you mentioned are actually prescribed by the Executive Act, on the other hand, there are, of course, some other elements, which we can or cannot influence as executive authority or, as a state. I said maybe not so clearly, but I'll say it again, so I'll use your question, so we're talking about the write-off of the principal. In that capital, one part is the cost, but not the interest. The interest on automaticism on these 10,000 kunas is being written off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90347	Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90348	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. About a year ago, by amending the Tax on Profits Act, you gave the business banks a one-time measure that if they write off their debts to the citizens that it would be tax-recognized expenditures. Now, we're talking about tax relief here again today, so maybe I'd like to ask you how much information the banks have used so far to write off citizens' debts. Is the fact that banks have resold more than 17, 18 billion of their claims over the past few years to a variety of D.O.s. We're now interested in whether these banks used that tax relief or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90349	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90350	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would say a very good question, however, you will remember yourself and all of us together when the debate of first and second reading was in the context of tax reform when I first proposed amendments to the Tax on Profits Act then the reaction of some of the MPs was that it was a sort of thing as some of you called the secret agreement of the Government and the banks on the subject of some other things to give some possibility. When I explained it and we further analyzed it through the debate, and the very provisions in the end were the conclusion that it was great for banks to make full use of that possibility. Was it what was the basic intensity? The basic intensity was not only of course cleaning the bank's balance sheet but first of all, I'll say colloquial, citizens don't have a balance, but cleaning the citizens' balances, so a one-time final full write-off of forgiveness. Unfortunately, at this point, I don't have specific numbers to tell you in detail, but I can unfortunately say it wasn't much of an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90351	Thank you. Let's go to the eighth line, dear colleague Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90352	Dear colleagues. These are regressive measures. What are you going to do to make sure it doesn't happen again? I cannot believe that no Croatian citizen knew, Croatianly completed, that every signed document is a legal document and what is being solved in private courts. But not this fina, fina here looks like some kind of financial SS. People are doing bank accounts, and they don't even know they're done, that's how ten people came to me. They have absolute power and maybe it would be to talk about defenders who have been executed who get out of prison after, serve punishment for allegations... crimes and put them on pension for up to half a million kuna, it's a de facto life sentence. These big bureaucrats, this young lady with you, you're not listening to me, she's telling you, so you've got 50% of the people in the state service. You'd better execute people who don't pay taxes and the gray economy and get rid of those intermediaries to have a functional financial system, not this SS financial one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90353	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90354	Your Honor, I have listened to your question and your comments. I'm not going to go into an analysis of what you said, I don't think it's exactly what you said about an institution and its employees. I repeat for the third time, they have only implemented certain provisions of the law that the Croatian Parliament has passed and ultimately if we watch and implement the commission over the funds they carry out according to the official documentation that someone has started with a public notary or some other way, and when they only practically carry things out in the works. As for this first part that I think was much more quality in terms of questions and comments, I mentioned earlier this is one law that has a one-time effect and one that has a certain continuous effect, but I think we all need to do a lot more together on the elements of the prevention of such phenomena. Here is what is mentioned, among other things, financial description and other things so that Croatian citizens are aware of all the dangers and opportunities offered to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90355	Thank you. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90356	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. 10% of our fellow citizens are blocked means those who can be obliged at all. What I'm interested in is exactly the 17 billion that the banks sold to the redeemers of that debt. Is there an analysis of how they work and why this law doesn't really regulate their business? What's their status? How do those who actually made money at this point on the debts of our citizens? Also around the appeal, I would ask you to change it from appeal to the date until the units of local and regional (regional) self-government need to make a decision. This does not mean that we interfere with them and order them but rather ask them to make a decision, so let them be responsible for their fellow citizens and say we will or will not do anything. So much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90357	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90358	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, this first part several times, and I know that within the government where you were a member of this issue, you discussed and in accordance with the existing legislation not only in the Republic of Croatia, but I would say that throughout the EU, agencies specialising in this particular problem that are building their business model on the gradual collection of claims, i.e. the first purchase of demand with a discount, and then the collection of claims. So these concrete laws cannot be penetrated into the scope of their implementation, so they are obliged to comply with existing laws and must not be wronged. As for the second part, I can partly agree with you, but I repeat once again among other things, and some of your colleagues from the club have already said in the first and preliminary public appearances after the presentation that this is unfair according to local self-government, a violation of the Convention on Local Self-Government, the Constitution is why we have transferred them. However, of course we will all follow together to have local self-government follow this example because ultimately it is also a responsibility to citizens living in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90359	Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90360	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. So only today in the Croatian Parliament did I actually hear for the first time the actual analysis and simulation of the structure of long-blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So 85% of those who have been blocked for more than one year, 66% of those who are 3 years old, and 58% of the citizens owe that small amount. The fact is and this should be emphasized here, and this is the total debt of these citizens is just 4% of the total debt of the 42 billion kuna, as I understand it, 4%. You therefore doubt whether the units of local self-government or the county will do the same after the adoption of this law relating to the write-off of debt or the implementation of the mandate. Well, of course they will, so this topic has been public for several years now, so it's also in the interest of local self-government and county units to do so. And thirdly, with this second group of creditors, you said, and that should be explained, that there is no forgiveness other, so that the dude doesn't stop, but he's already stopped doing it. That's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90361	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90362	Here's a thank you to the esteemed representative for his comment and question. I hope that I will not break again, not again, but that someone will raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think it is in the interest of both the previous issues and all of us together to know that at EU level it is precisely in the creation of a directive on credit service providers for creditors and the collection of collateral. So licensed supervision is being introduced over these demand collection agencies so that even what the honourable representative has now commented on, so today we need to look at all these figures, talk them soberly, reasoned and reach conclusions, that is, in this particular case, the government did, and therefore came forward here with concrete proposals of measures. You see for yourself, as you have noticed from the analysis itself, unfortunately things aren't just as black and white and uniform, although a lot of complex systems and a general analysis of these figures has made very little to do with the number of cases of conflicting conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90363	Thank you. Let's go now, dear representative of the Sun Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'll go back to what you said, so of course we expect the solidarity of units of local self-government, illustrations for, this is what a map of blocked in the Republic of Croatia looks like, and these are units of local self-government that can see how unfortunately citizens are blocked in their territory, for example in the city of Zagreb over 60 000. Corrections work, for those colleagues who said it was the Government at someone's address or under some kind of pressure went into resolving the debts of blocked citizens, I will only warn that this measure stands in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme and, of course, this is not a message that they should not return long, that debts should not be paid, this is a move of solidarity towards our citizens and this is handing out to those who have come out of the financial delinquencies they unfortunately came to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90365	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90366	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's this chart you've shown, the map of the Republic of Croatia, it's also based again on the data of the FINA that is very illustrating and actually the tables themselves speak most of it. I will also apostrophe local self-government here, I think that this government, according to local self-government, has just shown in many of its intentions, I will apostrophe tax reform, remember myself, since the first day, I have said several times in the Croatian Parliament that I promise that those first year this loss of tax revenues due to the reduction of tax burden on income and, of course, the rise in net income and available income from Croatian citizens, the central state budget, will compensate for what has been done and I will also remind you all of the 16th law out of tax reform, it is the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government where total income from income tax is paid to local self-government. I know that some of the MPs have been against such a proposal, but I think that element should also be taken into account, that the strengths of the budgets and local self-government are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90367	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90368	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I would like to say that we should commend this commendable attempt to help our fellow citizens who in this situation have found most of them, and not even with their own guilt, but simply with a set of certain living circumstances, but I would also like to say that I sincerely hope that the units of local self-government and certain financial institutions will approach this without a fig in their pocket. However, in view of this Article 13, I cannot help but say one thing, from 2004 to 2011, we had in the Law on the implementation of the State Budget a provision that the tax administration could pay up to 10 m. the tax debtors found themselves in this situation due to equally strange situations, it was abolished in 2012. And just as a result of that is this big and probably this number is blocked and finally, I think we should mention how many companies without one employee are blocked, how much they have total funds and that just shows that every liberalisation does not carry well but carries some bad things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90369	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90370	Here's a thank you, Your Honor. You also well-known problems and existing regulations and, of course, you recognize the intention of this regulation that we are proposing here, so that still following what is already in certain tax laws, it is difficult to say this possibility, and here we have even raised to the level of those 5 years, which we believe might still be for a certain number of citizens again, it is difficult to say any number, specific, specific, specific which will mean, however, individual decision of Croatian citizens and we consider that a kind of benefit is mainly those who may have a slightly smaller amount of blockade and who in this way can distinguish it through the time period. I'm going to refer again, of course, to local self-government, I may not have said it, but I actually believe, we believe in it, and we're doing a good job, and we're sure that a large number of local and regional and regional self-government units will follow this example of the central state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90371	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the replica, now let's see if the representatives of the board want to take a word, we have a Committee on Legislatives, a Committee on Finance and a State Budget. No, then I'm opening a debate. The first Club of Representatives is the CNS and the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90372	... President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here's today we've already heard data from the FINA data that we've blocked 326 000 of our fellow citizens who owe more than 43 billion kuna. This is a data that is really worth imagining and that the problem of the blocked presence in our society we are all aware of and much debate is being discussed, but in what way this problem is solved, it is certainly impossible by one measure. Surely it is impossible by one law and this set of laws proposed here today by these two we are discussing and the one that will be discussed later will certainly not fully resolve this situation, but that many will help, that in some ways, it will. Here, according to data, we have 58% of our citizens blocked who owe most of the money for current consumption and consumer services, which I must mention is more than 30% for telecommunications services and HTV and they make up the largest number of debtors, although they only participate in the total amount of debt with 4%. The average debtors, they're the ones who mostly owe banks more than 30 thousand kuna and we have the ones with the debt really high that make up only 1%, but they're in total debt with as much as 52%. With this opportunity to write down a capital of 10 thousand kuna, it will be a unblocked part of our citizens, estimated 6700, and that the debt will be written off by 153,000 more. It's just about the write-off of a debt written down by the central state, so now I don't count who belongs here. So, the believers in Group 1. I sincerely hope that this will be joined by units of local and regional self-government, which were also mentioned in the first proposal, especially because the budgets of most of our units are just by voting the Law on the financing of local self-government units much higher than they were before, and that there will be conditions for them to be included very soon, not to hold discussions now, so decisions, so that it will take another 6 months or a year for them to decide. Another group of believers includes everyone else. How stimulating it is that someone is now reducing the base of profit tax by 10 thousand kunas, so if they estimate that their problem is to collect it, and that way they will help and get rid of their delinquent dues, and they never know when they will be charged, I think it's stimulating. However, they are not mandatory, but I say, I sincerely hope that they decide to do so. With the mandatory write-off of Group 1 credentials in the amount of 10 thousand kuna, we have the largest three credentials that account for 80%. It is the Ministry of Finance, then HTV of 250,000 kuna and the Croatian Health Insurance Office worth 155,000 kuna. The effect of the bill will largely depend on the behaviour of the creditors in this second group. It is not possible to predict, of course, but I believe that he will still be significant and that these creditors will decide the same thing for this measure. Thinking about our blocked citizens, many of whom I know, I know it's not easy for them. Fate is different, there are different situations and everyone thinks that their problem is the biggest, that they are in the worst position, that they have just been wronged the most. And if this measure will at least make some feel better, that I can plan my future, my finances for the future, it'll be fine. But it's also good that it's a one-time scale, that it's not a way of working now that people don't think too much about their borrowing regardless of the situation they afford some things and don't pay for those obligations they have to settle. That the measure will be resolved, I have already said it will not, but 6700 of our citizens will leave the blockade, and another 150 thousand will be reduced by 10 thousand kuna, which will certainly contribute significantly to their exit from the blockade along with the other measures. We can ask ourselves as we already have and whether it is a just measure, whether it is just for our citizens who pay their obligations neatly or mostly neatly, often with great effort, and rarely with the help of others, with the help of various loans, with the help of family members. However, this is not about the social dimension. The government has opted for a proposal to help all those blocked once, and therefore from the first group, the state that it can do. She gave a criterion and a framework for another group to stimulate them to do the same. We also hear about money being spent on a daily basis, that it should stop, that people cannot live and stand. It's a small pension, but it's a small salary, although I must point out that the execution is not over the entire amount of funds. We used to have that it was 2/3 that they went to a secure account, 1/3 was being executed, and amendments to the law for those below the average salary 25% of the money goes to an account where it's possible to implement the implementation of the money. The new provisions contained in this law are the purpose of limiting long-term accountblocks and, above all, in those cases where it has proved unsuccessful, because we have heard the data, how much the situation is and how many of those tasks have actually been carried out for more than 3 years. So we have a situation, that new executions are constantly coming, and the number of executions is not reduced because they are only accumulated. So now, for all of us, these very executions, which last for more than 36 months, will be executed. I know I repeat what the minister said, what we all think about all the time, what the papers write about, but I have to simply comment on and look at these laws and our views. Well, I won't be long, I won't use all 20 minutes, but I have some more things to apostrophe, mostly what we all want all the time and we all expect and that's the problem of the blocked. We heard in the public debate many remarks and satisfactions of citizens, primarily blocked. But through their criticisms and suggestions, besides solving us, they didn't give us any concrete suggestions, because as I said before, every situation is specific and each of the blocked would prefer that this debt no longer exists and that everyone starts from scratch. However, just as we must cleanse the debtors, we must protect the believers. We have also seen the comments sent by the Croatian Bank Association, the Croatian Association for the collection of the demand for the lawyer chamber, which, right now, make comments that not everyone is in the same position. On that basis, and based on all the debates we've always had in this House, I know we'll say, so what banks have to say, they're squirming the money, because that's exactly what the comments were. We have criticism on both the agencies and the collection of claims. But they also act in accordance with the law. I personally have heard as many criticisms about these agencies, not only about this relationship, but also about incorrect behaviour on their part and all, however, perhaps that only they are a little bit more correct and polite, but that would make it much easier for the blocked ones, and not that they are still not citizens, second but third-class workers. It's called a political responsibility, a blockade situation in the past 20 years, so it could sort of agree, but there's also the fact that we have a series of objective but subjective situations that have led to problems blocked. We have a recession problem, as I have already said, the problem of small wages, low pensions, the economy has been the way it was for years, the problem of unemployment, and all of this has contributed to this situation. We can also talk about high interest rates, high performance costs, which also stands. So it is good that this law does not stimulate the launch of an execution for each debt, but it will precisely be because, the believer must primarily cover the costs of the exercise, detimise it to run the operation, but rather, with the debtor to sit down and try to find all other solutions to solve the situation. Here, once again, I note that this law, I am sure, will contribute to solving the problem, will not solve it, that it is necessary, all these laws, which are more urgent to apply and in practice to see what the situation will be and how much it will contribute to solving the problem for our citizens. The HNS Club supports the adoption of laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90373	We've got a report now. He's my first colleague, Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90374	I am looking for the Honorable President on behalf of the Mosta Party Club, following these scandalous claims by a colleague from the HNS where she attacked an association blocked, said politicians are not responsible for the state of the country and for the number of blocked, that it is responsible and I do not know about unemployment, a bad economic situation. So who's responsible for it? Whoever is responsible for a massive state-run imprisoning administration is precisely responsible for your party, the HDZ is responsible for a huge and massive state apparatus that citizens and entrepreneurs finance through taxes, which through other donations. We now have an incarceration in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have new employment, who will finance it all. You say politics isn't responsible and you're still attacking one association that's fighting for blocked citizens. What we could hear right now is scandalous, and I'm asking for a break to consult at the club about this. And I'm setting up a minister as long as it's the duration of this break, because I believe the president will grant me a break, to think a little bit about the fact that there is no statute of war in Croatia and for this kind of debt of our citizens. Politicians are now responsible for the situation in society. Are you equating citizens with war criminals because you brought the state into this situation, that we have the fact that many of our entrepreneurs are failing because they have high yields, because the state apparatus is too bulky and expensive, and that you don't want to do anything about it, you don't want to do anything about reforming public administration, cutting the administration, reducing the number of municipalities. Comrade Boric, what's wrong with what I'm saying? I know you don't want to do this. I know you don't want to do this. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90375	My friend Grumo, OK, thank you, you're right to take a break. I approve of the break. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90376	Dear Chairman, I would like to say that at this moment, the actions of Marina Jakovčević are under way...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90377	.../Intruder President: Comrade Pernar, are you looking for a break on this item of the agenda or what do you want?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90378	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90379	What you've reported, you have no right to report, it's contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90380	But I would like to ask for a recess, sir, on the subject of Marin Jakovčević's actions from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90381	I can't give you a break. You can talk about it in free speech at 1:00. Do you understand me? [[Intruder Pernar: How would you...]] So now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, no more options for this kind of break, you have the right to talk about it at 1:00 when the free speech is on behalf of the party, and that's fine, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90382	Mr. Jandrokovic, I understand that the question of this man's actions is not important to you, but I believe.../The speaker has been turned off by the microphone./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90383	My colleague Pernar, it's a matter of every man's actions that's important to me, don't use these sort of tricks now because they're not suitable for a council representative. So you can't talk, you get a warning and please sit down. ... Comrade Pernar, you've been warned, don't make us repeat that script again since yesterday, it's not nice to you or anyone. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're not afraid. I'm not asking you to be afraid of me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] ... We're not afraid. I'm not asking you to be afraid of me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, look, I'm going to have to give you a second warning, you won't be able to talk about this point that's very important, I see you've reached out individually, I know it's to you...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Are you done? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've received a second warning, you're no longer entitled to a speech. Now let's go third... The third break is a request for a third break from colleague Makar of the HNS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. ... Please, colleague Pernar, you're done. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, now please like this, will you stop now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want me to kick you out, that's what you want? ... Is that what you want? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tell me if you want me to ask the guards to take you out if you want to, if you don't want to sit down then. ... I'll let you have your rights at 1:00. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, then we'll take a 10-minute break, you're out of the debate, and then you'll get back to me after that break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a ten-minute stop. It's 10.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I asked for a break on behalf of the club so I could go to the club and listen to my argument. In fact, I was implicated that I was speaking against the Association of Blocks, and I really didn't say it, but I was expressing the fact that everything that could have been done might not have been missed and stated that there were a number of objective but subjective things. But I'm sorry there aren't any of my colleagues now who called me like every time and mentioned always the HNS and only the HNS for entanglement. In the meantime, I pulled an article from Express that reads: “The Most has employed 34 people in Metkovic over the past 4 years, although they claim to reduce the arrests. They have unlawfully dismissed four employees of the City Administration and hired four of their own.’ ... This is why I'm saying this... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90387	Wait a minute. Comrade Pernar, what do you need? ... Wait a minute, so here's what I'm going to do again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no, don't talk, no, no. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Pernar, just a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, calm down, that's the first thing, that's the first thing, calm down, there's no reason to yell, you didn't get the word, you don't even have the right to talk anymore, so please sit down. ... If you won't sit down, it will mean to me that you deliberately want the guards to come and take you out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So now you want here, if the public knows, you want the guards to come and kick you out so you can be a victim and get media attention. So you just want it to happen. I ask you to sit down now and let your colleague at least speak and I'll assess whether she had the right to speak like that or not. You didn't ask for a break about what happened, so with the law that we're discussing, we're already deliberating. You can't ask for a break, you can talk about it at 1:00 when it's free speech. And I'm asking you to sit down for the last time. ... All right, fellow Pernar,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, like this, so I'm taking away your right of speech now, please, go out alone, if you won't go out alone I'll have to ask...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, colleagues, at least... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, and then you'll have to go all the way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] ... There you go. It's a 10-minute break. Please perform a colleague of Pernar. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm taking away your right to participate in the session by the end of the day. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 10.50 o'clock. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90389	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] The Honorable representative of Hrvoje Runtic will now speak on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. and Mrs. from the ministry and colleagues and fellow MPs. I thought I'd get right to the point, but I have to comment on these few things I've heard in what we've heard so far, and before I do, I'd like to say that the problem of the blocked or the crisis blocked won't be solved. So that's where we have to be precise because for months now, the public has been talking about solving problems blocked, a new start for blocked, a new chance for blocked, and it's always talked about blocked. But it's not about blocked ones, it's about some of them. The number that will be really solved is actually very small and according to what we know now it comes down to these 6,672 people. So we need to be as precise as when we write the laws, we can't write the laws in such a way that we say it will be everything, and it won't be everything but 2%. The other thing I'd like to comment on is this story about FINA, so the minister seems to have told me if FINA is guilty, FINA is not guilty, FINA is guilty. Okay, it's not FINA's fault, of course it's not her fault because the FINAs have been assigned a role in the process. However, the fact is that FINA charges too much. I'm 5.6.7 months ago I don't remember when it was like it seemed to me at the beginning of this year watching an open show where Mrs. Vinka Jelak was a guest and you said there was no charge for FINA, not monthly, not annually, but once. But once you know how that sounds, when you say it one time, then it's the impression that FINA's gonna charge a fee, and then it's settled. However, FINA charges for each transaction regardless, yes, yes, no matter how much the transaction is. If the transaction under the order of 180 kuna FINA is charged at 180 kuna to the charge of 180 kuna and is always that fee of around 180 kuna, we all know that. So anyone who's referred to a problem with the blocked knows that FINA charges about 180 kuna for each transaction, not one time. I can get you the presses. Therefore, if we take the amount of the transaction and the amount of the compensation it is so disproportionate that I don't even know how to begin to explain it. Your banks and mail are doing it for five kunas. You come to pay some bill, make some transaction and pay five kuna fees. That's what it's about, Finna. Of course, the question arises whether there is a need for FINA to participate in the process. For example, executions can also be carried out on the basis of a court solution by a permanent order in the bank. As for the financial literacy that was the same here, I agree that citizens should be educated at every step not to enter into a variety of financial arrangements that can then harm them to ten times check, to live on what they have, and not to be in debt unless there is a very big need for it. However, when we talk about financial literacy, we only talk about the fact that citizens are financially illiterate. Never, in this context, talk about the socially responsible behaviour of banks or the business of banks. Banks are so aggressively advertised, turn on television now, take any newspaper for five seconds won't pass that you won't run into them and these ads are so intrinsic that they change your life for the better and convince you, brainwash you through the media that as soon as you take the loan, your life will change for the better. Therefore, I agree with the financial literacy of citizens is important, but somehow it should lead to some kind of bank behavior that doesn't exactly happen to pop out of pâté. Now let me comment on these two laws that are part of the package of this crisis solution blocked. So now there are two laws here, or a package that has long been announced, and it's much longer to be expected, but there's still no mother law, and that's the executive law that's been announced for some time now. Minister Bosnjakovic has been announcing it for a long time, and if I remember correctly, and I remember it was said to be in the process by summer. But we still have this week, and next week, the law of the new one is gone, so I'm curious when we can expect it? Now, since I've said from this pay phone many times on this subject that everything that and the smaller number of people will make life easier and all that a small step forward, such as it is, it wouldn't be fair to say now that this is really bad in front of us because it's not completely bad, it's going to solve the problem for some people. Is that enough, is that a complete and systematic solution, could it be more? I think it could be more and it's not a systematic solution, but a good time will show. I'm always glad when time shows. After six months, we'll probably talk about this again, and we'll see what happened, and then we'll talk about this after a year and a half, and we'll probably talk about this somewhere before the next parliamentary elections whenever they're going to be because then the problem will grow again, and then there'll be a solution to that problem again. So the proposal for a law on the write-off of debts to natural persons will cover natural persons, but as far as I understand it will also cover natural persons who are registered to carry out certain activities, so craftsmen etc. Freemen, etc. Which is good. But I repeat that it's not enough because during the recession and there's a key word I think about the issues blocked, during the recession they put tens of thousands of OPGs and crafts in the state that didn't have any anti-recession measures, no SafetyNet that would allow these people to get back on their feet, to continue their business, and eventually to pay the state taxes. That's how the state hurt itself at the end and it seems to me that we're great at it, one thing we're great at is doing damage to ourselves, which is visible at every turn. Many of the mentions, therefore, of these craftsmen and small entrepreneurs have remained in debt greater than the amount that this law will write off because it has been a long time. They also need to be helped somehow and allowed to return from black to legal business. Now, this group of two creditors who are going to be willing to write off their debts and what will be the effects, today can't really be spoken should wait for the law to come into force, to start applying, and we'll follow the results. There's one more thing I'd like to draw attention to, and a few of you who spoke before me mentioned it, and these are your famous teleopers. It's such an amazing spin that's spinning in public and spinning to this day and no one can stop it, teleoperators, so it's kind of like to show that 326.000 who are in trouble, which are blocked, is one group of people who's decided to stop paying phones or phone bills at one point, leaving out the fact that I mentioned earlier, which is that during the recession almost 100,000 crafts, OPG, family agricultural holdings and other small and micro businesses, all of which, behold, had one thing in common that was needed for business, and these are phones. And now what happened? These people came in a position not to be able to charge their invoices, which was a mass phenomenon for recessions, and consequently they couldn't serve their obligations to, say, teleopers, also according to the IRS and other creditors. When they faced whether they were going to feed the family or to pay for the postpaid services of the teleoperate, I believe they decided to do this first. And then because of the lack of funds, they stopped paying those phones and switched to a more favourable prepaid service, that's what the crowd of people did with small craftsmen, OPGs and the like. And now these people are on the black market. They manage to know, feed their families as they know, they are on the black market, and then the state has a problem because of it, and the good part of that pool called blocked is no longer in Croatia. So instead of being quick to take anti-resession measures, the state waited for the tsunami to pass and left a large number of people at the mercy of some eight years. In that time, the tax administration mentioned above was very cold, insolent and rudely going home, often with threats that if they could not pay them debts that they could not pay because they did not collect their claims, that they would register on real estate, that they would sell out their property and be charged because the debts had to be paid even though these small claims could not be charged. Those who failed to collect the debt by selling out the property or only charged it partially, the IRS, and it's disastrous that I have to say it here, but that's right, it's a camera. And interest them today. And their debts are much bigger than the 10,000 they're talking about. Their debts, therefore, have long exceeded the amount of this Law prescribed for their write-off and, unfortunately, such happiness can only be sought outside the Republic of Croatia, which some have already done. In the crisis blocked, therefore, the state plays a key role and carries the blame for inaction and for misappropriation. It is irrelevant which parties led governments during this period because these parties are changing, but the government of the Republic of Croatia is continuity and is responsible for its decisions. At the end of the story of blocked people, we always come to a topic called the economy and entrepreneurship that I often talk to this present colleague about, tax reforms that are necessary to increase wages, in order to increase the number of jobs because you know that and we all know that when our citizens have incomes that are adequate and enough for life and business, they pay bills very neatly because the bills have to be paid. About this P.Z. 370, meaning the Proposed Law on the implementation of the law on money, this Law, which is before us, or its new version in the public, is often marred by the Executive Law, so I have recently even read a book in which this Law is called to countless places by the executive law. However, there are links, and especially should be highlighted from the earlier versions of the Executive Act, which was deleted several years ago, which practically allowed the implementation to last forever. That was just before the minister said something about it. So we had that provision. According to this maliciously deleted article, the version of the Executive Law was suspended after 6, 12 or 24 months of defaulted debt payment on a blocked account. The law we are now discussing essentially returns only that provision, paraphrasing it, but the deadline for suspending the exercise has now been raised to 3 years, provided that nothing has been charged in the last 6 months. With this suspension of the commission, tens of thousands of blocked will be unblocked, the estimates go from 60 thousand standing in the light of this Law, up to a figure far above 100,000, today we have heard 153,000, it seems to me, which has already been heard in public for several months. The amount of debt recorded in the coercive payment system on the Nardo cash, according to the FINA, will decrease by about 32 billion kuna. Now, considering that currently according to FINA data, about 326 thousand citizens with a total head of about 43 billion are blocked, this means that we can expect a drop in the number of blocked citizens from 326 thousand to even below 200 thousand, which will be shown as a phenomenal result and a dramatic drop in debt to ten billion kuna, if I have calculated well. Now, I have no doubt that the data on the FINA reports in the months that come to the public will be shown in a way that has helped tens of thousands of people, that the debt is reduced even though that is not the case. So the catch is that this debt of about 32 billion disappears, but only a halt is made, which means that the problem is not solved but is stored in a closet from which it will fall back sooner or later. In other words, citizens who haven't been able to pay their debt for years with this move have been settled in the section, and in public this move is called a new chance for blocked even though it is not de facto. The debt remains for those citizens, the minister repeated it several times and continues to grow for tight interest. The perpetrators are also opening up the possibility of running a performance on movables and real estate, which will lead to an increase in the number of operations that we have just before had this scene here that are connected at the end-end to this topic. The executives will, of course, be able to restart the same cases and block the account or the cash blockade, although it will probably be less than, I must say hello, first of all, to the fact that in three years they have failed to charge, but also because of this detimulation by introducing an advance of the costs of carrying out the commission that the executives will now have to pay if they decide to restart the operation. It is clear that these executives will not do so in the event that the debtor's accounts are dead, as it is clear, and that they will do so as soon as the debtors are hired again and receive the salary regularly. Unfortunately, we often see in the media that when people find a potential employer, they ask to be applied to a minimumer, that the rest of them get on their hands or get everything on their hands, so the black market. What I'm saying is I don't want to say that debts should not be paid but that they can be paid in a more acceptable way for over-indebted citizens who are many years in the blockade, and in the structure of whose debt is now a good part of which are now tight interest and unnecessary costs. A much better way to treat such debtors is to re-programme debt with the write-off of part of unnecessary costs and tight interest when employed, making sure that the problem is approached individually and whether it is single, single parents, families, living in Vinkovci, Gospić, Split, Zagreb, whether they are tenants or other meanings of the category. Items should be returned to courts, reprogrammes can be implemented at the end and through a permanent order, the account block is unnecessary for implementation. In the talks that I have had with a number of people dealing with this problem, including some people from the ministry, I was told that it is incorrect, because the whole system can be almost automated, introduce a category of debtors, reprogramme debt, is just a question, is it true that we live in the 19th or 21st century? By reprogramming debts, the question of inheriting debts would be resolved, people wouldn't have to give up their inheritance, because they don't want to inherit debts and problems, but they could inherit reprogrammes, for example. Anyone, for example, would rather inherit a war than a hundred kuna reprogramme than a long £50,000, which cannot be settled. And what I said, I must say, that I am not speaking in mind, but that I have sent enquiries to the 10 foreign embassies in Croatia, to inform myself how similar problems are solved in civilized countries. For example. Some countries, when they had a similar problem, wrote off some of the debt and reprogrammed the rest, to imagine 99 years. Probably with us if such a measure were proposed, the answer would be, so not living people for so long. And lastly, I raise two questions, first after this law comes into force, 32 billion kunas of debt will remain, but you won't see it. And that debt will increase further by tight interest, so I wonder how that problem can be solved. And secondly, if someone is obliged, for example. 35,000 kn, is it better that this big piece of debt, or that it's due, say, one war reprogramme of 200 kn? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90391	The next Club of Representatives of that SDP on behalf of which will speak respected representative Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the FINA and Ministry of Finance. Today, we have a united discussion, a proposal for a Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, and a proposal for a Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets. The problem of blocked citizens has been discussed some 7, 8 years ago and unfortunately the government has tried to solve this problem, and we will see how certain legal solutions will succeed and therefore cannot personally be against this proposal, or I will certainly personally support it, because I believe that we are a social state and that this is a problem that we have overcome, regardless of whether it was left or right or another government, and that in this debate, there is actually a need to crystallise certain solutions, i.e., a problem that is extremely complex. And it's complex that way, because we're saying that somewhere around 10% of Croatian citizens are under multi-annual blockades. And these are now not blockades of several months, but as this report itself, namely, the state analysis itself, indicated that given the maturity of the debt, are extremely worrying, so somewhere around 76,000 citizens or 80% of them have been blocking accounts for more than a year. And their debt is 41 billion kn, i.e. 97% of total debt. So that's the problem, the problem is that when we talk about these debts that 97% is longer, blocked than a year, and imagine, how very difficult it is for these people to live, or when you're only in a blockade, and not when you've been blocked for more than a year, because as you've been said here, that you're actually a large part of the citizens blocked and for more than 3 years. Especially when you see the data, which the government has brought here to the total amount of debt, 2.3 billion kn refers to the costs of the procedure, i.e., rest of the principal, means 5.5% of the costs of the procedure there, see how much these costs are when they came up to 2.3 billion kn. The costs of the procedure are merely management. We're talking about some tax reform here, so if it's going to cost me no VAT, whether a downsizing of one index point is going to cost the state budget of 2 billion kuna. So do we go from 25 to 24%. So are we going to talk about a certain tax charge, a reduction in income tax, and we're talking about a billion kuna. All we're talking about here is the cost of a 2.3 billion-dollar execution. It means how deep a problem this is. Especially when you see their structure and I say with this principal, when you add up 21 billion interest, it's actually 65 billion kunas of blocked money, i.e. citizens' debt accounts. If they knew it was a year in the Republic of Croatia's salaries, so all the people who get paid in the Republic of Croatia and the private and public sector, all of them in the Republic of Croatia, the net payout somewhere around 70 billion kn per year, 65 billion kn means everyone in the Republic gets some annual salary of 70-75 billion kn. Here are only citizens' debts, annually all citizens of the Republic of Croatia here are 65 billion kuna. So when you see as much as you can by this law at all, here the minister himself spoke about 6 thousand 672 Croatian citizens who will completely unblock themselves, these about 150 thousand that will have a certain write-off to the believer and group 1 around 840 million kuna. And then he structured it in such a way that 70% of this debt, which will go into write-off, refers to the Ministry of Finance, somewhere around 280 million kuna, 250 million kunas refer to HRT for a subscription to HRT and around 155 million kuna refers to debts to health means to HZZ and angle. This is actually about former craftsmen or natural persons who have performed their registered activity and who have simply found themselves in trouble and then remained their debt to health care. We know that the health part of HZZO, which is now set aside from the Treasury, still has its pile of certain losses and debts, and in this way HZZO will write them off 155 million kunas to these citizens, because they simply cannot be charged, and those who have pensions they will not be able to, they are excluded from this system just to get them, and we know that we are talking about these few days in pension reform, they will not be able to write off this debt they have, the total effect of this law, these two laws will act on a very small number of citizens and the fact itself because this is such complicated matter and now there are very many participants in this process. The minister himself said here, and last year we remember the amendments to the Tax Tax Act that the state has given a one-time measure to the business banks that if they write off that debt to citizens they cannot charge, they will be given tax relief and that it is a one-time measure. Today we heard the minister here say that it was not actually the effect of this measure, and imagine, the banks have actually been in the last three years so they didn't want to take advantage of that tax relief that the Ministry of Finance gave. Then what did they do? They resold that debt to the market for some 17-18 billion kunas they resold, they got some information from the NHB or their reports, they got about a billion to two billion kunas for that debt, and now they're actually in these agencies that are looking to collect that debt actually moved. What happened? Bank balances have been cleared. When he tells the governor how we dropped that share of non-income loans, etc. 17 billion kunas have been written off, and now it's gone in bank balances, but where is it? It's in the balance sheet of the debt collection agency. So from one sector that controlled HHB and strictly regulated how it can be treated by the consumer, that is why there is a consumer law, consumer protection and where it has been under some supervision of NHB, that part of the debt has now been revised, has been found in a market that does not actually control and cannot control either the CNB or the HANFA, and is still about financial claims. The financial claims that were registered here, and now they're listed in the balance sheets of those agencies. And now you can't, and you don't actually have some kind of talker to go into some more serious way of solving these debts, actually, which is the company d.o.o. For the 20,000 kunas that the government has bought out, and now they're actually making that certain payment, and actually if the banks haven't used the tax relief that the government has offered to the banks themselves, now the question is why would anyone else use it more, why would those agencies be more useful to whom they have now, who have given some money for these certain claims because they expect to charge it more, so that this measure, too, I say the incentive measure of the Government, and that is why I say in this section and I support the government in these measures that are trying to resolve this part of the issue. However, the question now arises whether those on the other hand, those on the market, who are resellers of the debt on the market, will be more interested or encouraged to address these problems. So in this context, even though one time this is going to be said about 71 thousand and 600 Croatian citizens with this measure where there is no longer a long-term blockade that lasted for more than three years and I really think if you can't do it in a year, in two, three years if you can't, here are the data that some 1% have been charged, I think you're exhausting the entire system to stand by those blockades for a year, two, three, five etc. And there's the government's decision to block that part and administratively unblock it and to say that they're trying to solve it on some other way is a positive measure. However, we talk little about those who actually encouraged, or created, accumulated, or accumulated, these 42 and 65 billion kunas through their procedures. And that's why, in my view, it's another role of those who participated in the creation of this debt, it's the CNB together with all the business banks simply let the government solve this problem and they just got away and they said, look, we've now cleared the balances, great, the government has given some measure, the banks haven't used it, and now we have clean hands and it's all right and it's now on the market to resell debt and unfortunately on the Croatian market the only thing that flowers is the debt market and now they're social and social problems and now the government actually has to fight this whole problem and it's hardly going to be able to do with some kind of legal solutions and influence it, and I think this part, it shouldn't be allowed. Although I'm saying, it's all by the book. It seems to me it took more wisdom in the CNB not to push the ball to the government. They just pushed that balloon to the government and they told you here's 17, 20 billion kuna, we cleaned our hands, and Vlado now you're struggling with it. And we're all fine. I think they, and they knew for years if they generated such a great debt, knew how to manage that debt. It's a social bomb, it's a social bomb. You can't if they've been overseeing business banks, if business banks have approved these loans to citizens who didn't have a certain criterion because at a time when the recession occurred, there were already these measures to be given reprogrammes of these debts and to come to the government and tell, my people, we have a social bomb there that's the size of about 20 billion kunas of citizens' personal debts, and not that, we wrote it off, we've now pushed it off to one prime minister, now to another prime minister, now third prime minister, now we're here at the Parliament, and everything's fine, all right. We are what the adequateness of capital is satisfactory, financial stability is satisfactory. In all the reports, you see that financial stability is satisfactory, in all the reports. And what does the government have? He's got a 20-billion-dollar social bomb that he doesn't know how to solve, and it's very hard to solve. We can fight here too, left and right, etc., but we are all in the interest of passing some law in this House that will help Croatian citizens, but very difficult, very difficult. And now why? Because we have so many heterogenic citizens in that group of people. You have people who are in charge of regular directing that simply because they lost their jobs, and in this way they could have been very difficult to get out of the crisis. But you have those people who were talking about it here, but people who simply because of their business projects, investment projects, construction projects in the pre-recession period, were in debt of 150, 200 million kuna as their own citizens, and you see here in the government's own reports, it's said that only 1% of the blocked citizens, 1% of the citizens owe 52%. So only 1% of Croatian citizens are 22 billion kunas in debt. Now, it's very difficult to do this now, actually, to the government, and through what you've actually tried through that third step of the consumer bankruptcy bill, it'll all clear up, unfortunately, it'll take years. That's gonna take years, unfortunately. We were trying to reduce the tight interest, but you see, when the economy is growing, we thought here and when we came out of the recession, that these problems would be solved. Unfortunately, it's hard. We have three years of economic growth of 3.4%, this debt is not resolved, this debt continues to be. We have exited the excessive deficit procedure, the state has begun to regulate that part of the public debt, but this part of the private debt is still booming. And it will be difficult to address these measures too, I say, and it will be difficult to address these measures even though I say, I am giving full support and a positive contribution to the government which is trying to combat this problem because it is not easy to fight this problem. But this is where the third link is missing. There's no third link that I've said here, the one that's been overseeing business for years and years and controlling that debt and who's only been pushed overnight by the government. He just pushed him overnight to the government and they said, "Here's what's wrong with the law." Now let's ask ourselves if we are bringing this legislation here, and no matter what government it was tomorrow, are we going to, and in any way, how it is going to deal with these debts now, and how we are going to, now there are bile debates here against each other, who is responsible for this, who is not guilty, etc., etc., very difficult to find a solution. And I'm afraid that these legal measures, which I say, are positive and that will give some effect, and let's just say with administrative effect, that part of the debt will be unblocked, but it will still remain, and now it won't even be recorded through FINA, and there will be records removed, but the actual part of the debt will continue, the banks will continue to resell these claims, which is all by law, but my people, if that's already a very large percentage of GDP, so we're talking about 20 billion kuna debt here. That's what we told you, 10% VAT. 10 index points of VAT. Imagine. So it's out of control now and we're trying to talk here that would mean for Croatia instead of 25% if it had 15% of VAT. And here simply 10% of VAT is on the market and very hard to actually try and hard and it will be hard to go. I think that's why we'd like to hear the whole debate, but that's why we have to invite those to the table and that's the CNB to tell us how they're going to help the banks, they're going to help the citizens and they're going to help the government. They're part of the government, they're part of this home and this home and we give them trust and we give them laws. I can't be extraordinary. I can't say this doesn't matter. This part of the debt that the government is, or the ministry that left the debt to the ministries, the government has resolved. Is that so she solved it, she told me our debts to those in charge of taxes and pensions are paid out of those taxes, the government said we'd handle it. What did they offer? I don't know if any of you have heard what they've offered the government to say, look, we've been watching it for years, it's out of control now, we've pushed the government, what's their proposal, my people? Don't keep everything on your back, because you can't take it all, there are too many debts, and I'm afraid these issues will be dealt with by a few more governments in the future because when you see all the reports of the European Commission what they hate about Croatia, you have a very large share of private debt. And when we know that part of GDP makes up 60% of private spending, and all the measures the government gives to raise wages, that it's in social transfers, it's in the most intelligent policy, my people, it's simply being turned down by this huge lump of debt. It just refuses. And all the big incentives the government gives just don't experience the kind of multiplier on the market that we should actually give because simply where does that part of your debt go? Everything goes to this part of your debt and closing those social transfers. And so I say once again by solving this burning problem, and there you will have our support, I am telling you because this is a question of all of us, and I am not ashamed to say that you will get support because I think this is a difficult problem, and that we need to overcome certain parties and disciplines not to speak openly and honestly, but I think that this part of the debt especially for these agencies that I say, and the minister said that you will probably come by some kind of regulation and control, turn to it, bring them under some control, bring them under certain supervision, and if these measures were not given certain effects, I expect within some year to come out with even more concrete measures and to see that you are actively managing this debt when already these active debt management were not managed by those institutions that were primarily in charge of the CNB which was responsible for the active management of this long but simply pushed him out of the government and said that we have clean balances, and in fact the debt remains on the citizens alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90393	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90394	Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance and FINA, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we have two laws in front of us that are part of one package of laws, but these first two we discuss this morning are the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons and the Law on the implementation of the law on money. So these laws are trying in the most complete way so far to solve as much as possible or at least facilitate the problem blocked in the Republic of Croatia. We've all heard the numbers, so I won't repeat them much, so 326.000 citizens are blocked, $43 billion in debt, if we add interest, that's about 65 billion in debt in total. What's also mentioned, but I'm going to do it again cleanly to emphasize that 85% of the blocked blocks have been blocked for more than one year, and even 66% longer than three years. What is particularly important is that 58% of these are, so 58% of those blocked fall into debtors in relatively small amounts to which only 4% of the total debt is spent. So 58% of the blocked waste is 4% of the debt while on debtors who owe more than a million kunas, which are 1% of the total debt. So that is, and that is especially to point out that these smaller debts are also what burdens very many of our citizens who are in the blockade because of this. Now, a lot of these solutions have been offered through at least media space very often and for political purposes use this topic, there are some kind of rescue write-off solutions, so debts don't have to come back, etc., but there are some restrictions that this government is facing. These restrictions are defined by the Croatian Constitution and international documents, international commitments made by the Republic of Croatia. First, as regards what was proposed that the state order private persons to write off debts, to reprogram them with repayments, to forgive part of it, etc., that is something that is certainly unconstitutional. So private persons have their own claims, they represent private property, and any attempt by law to take that away would surely fall in the Constitutional Court and also in front of European courts. Also this part of the local self-government mentioned. So I remind this occasion that there is a Charter of Local Self-Government and Council of Europe that is often quoted in this Assembly whose Article 9 clearly states that units of local self-government are responsible for their own funding and in this sense the central state cannot order them to write off their debts. So he can't order it through the law, but he can use other means, other instruments that I'll say something about later. So what matters and what most of us agree on is that the debt has to be paid back. This is important not only for these legal reasons but also for the end of the survival of the economy. means debts, contracts, legal transactions, claims and the possibility of their collection are the cornerstones of a commodity economy, no exchange of goods, no charge, no fulfillment of the contract since the Roman law, the principle of "tack sant servanda" has no economy, no economy and no economic growth. So if the creditors don't have certain security or guarantee so much that they won't be able to charge the loans, they won't enter the contracts, people won't be able to solve their housing issues, simply a complete economy will stop. So that's important to emphasize when proposing some solutions that can have really long-term consequences, which are those restrictions that the government was facing when it proposed these solutions. So what is important is that already colleague Glavak mentioned that these are measures that are also in the Government's 2016-2020 programme and that the Government and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Finance Minister Mr. Maric, the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic have indeed committed to making our entire solution, of course with all these fences, the restrictions that exist. First of all, as far as the write-off of debts to the natural persons, we said here we have a write-off of the debt of 10,000 kuna by the central state. On the other hand, we have said private persons and units of local self-government, because of constitutional and international restrictions and the Council of Europe cannot force these debts to be written off, but there are tax reliefs means it is considered as tax-recognition expenditure that they can use. As much as it's going to be the usability of that expense, it's hard to say. A colleague named Lalovac has already mentioned that much has already been transferred, or that the banks have transferred their claims to the agencies, but it is also a fact that those debts that could not be charged after that transfer, and the agencies have paid them for a much lower price than their total amount, as well as the question of how much they will be able to charge. In that sense, I think there's a space where the creditors, any old, any new fortification that can't be charged by now, and obviously if a certain number of years have passed, it's more likely that they can't be charged because I stress, debts for more than three years, which exist for more than three years, are charged at 1%, it's very possible that they'll use this tax-recognition expenditure. What is also important is what I would also point out once again, which is that for tax debts that are over the amount of HRK 10,000 there is a possibility of reprogramming for up to 60 months and five years, respectively. So this is also one possibility that those who owe state, central state and legal persons whose founder or owner is state will be able to make their situation easier. So this debt write-off of 153,000 people will be covered, and projections that 6,672 will be completely unblocking. However, I would stress one other thing here, which is that these laws cannot be seen without an analysis of this third law that we have today in the debate, and these are amendments and additions to the Consumer Banks Act. For what? So the Consumer Bank is prescribed that all those debts of less than 20,000 kuna which have not been charged for three years or more will enter into the process of a simplified, simpler consumer bankruptcy, which will be initiated by the FINA under official duty and where it will be possible to reconstitute the situation, to see if there are assets from which it can be charged, and if not, that through the accelerated and simplified procedure these debtors enter into the bankruptcy of consumers, to get out of the blockade and to be able to start over. In view of these 10,000 write-offs, it must also be taken into account that, after these 10,000 kunas by the state, there are plenty of those who did not belong to these 20,000 and who could otherwise not be in this part to which this simplified bankruptcy procedure would not apply, the consumer will be able to benefit from that law. And so it's important when we mention the figures to mention that the projection of the Ministry of Justice is that up to 120,000 blocked by 326 000 could, after seeing these three laws as a whole and when this simplified process of consumer bankruptcy passes, be unblocked and start over. So these are the figures that should be mentioned here, so it's not just 6 000, but when you look at the whole so that more than 1/3 of the blocked could finally be unblocked, you wouldn't have that interest burden, the costs that are constantly multiplying, so you could move on. It's about the first law. Furthermore, as regards the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation, so as we have mentioned, the possibility of payment of debts that exist for more than 3 years is less than 1%. Considering those debts where nothing has been charged in the last six months, which they knew there was no income in the account, means that the debtor has no income whatsoever, that probability is even less. And precisely because of the principle of legal certainty which is one of the fundamental principles of constitutional order and which as such is recognised by our Constitutional Court and international courts has been passed and this measure is, or proposed, the adoption of this law. So what's particularly important is what he would point out is that this procedure will be conducted by automatism after 3 years. Why does it matter? What has already been mentioned several times, which is a problem in the Republic of Croatia, and this is a question of citizens' awareness and awareness of the opportunities that citizens actually offer them, but also of possible traps and problems that exist there. So all these measures, all these laws that predict that some things ex... , according to official duty, colloquial automation will certainly help citizens who, otherwise, might not know what rights are at their disposal because of their own lack of information at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's also said it doesn't stop debt. So that's true, so the debt with this doesn't stop for the simple reason that we said, because given the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the international contracts that the Republic of Croatia has concluded, the state can't actually rule out the owners of these claims and take away what their property is, claims are also property. But what matters is that the accounts will be unblocked, and then different scenarios are possible. So after the account is unblocked, each of these credentials, or executive, can suggest a performance on another subject. Whether they'll do it, so they'll do it if they're information that the debtor has some other property that's not often the case. So I know from practice that very often debtors, natural persons and have no other property, and that's why there may be no other subject of execution. I also stress that there are deadlines set by the Executive Act of 2 months. After the suspension of the application on one subject, to be proposed on another. So it's certain that part of these executive procedures, especially those that continue only with automation, and where there's really no way of charging that they'll be completely suspended because the executives won't have other items of enforcement over which they might be able to settle down, they simply won't be able to find them to propose a performance on them. So it's hard to give that some evaluations are accurate but I'm sure but also personal experience, from legal practice, from the attorney's office that certainly a lot of these claims will permanently stop and that a lot of these performances will be permanently suspended. So what's very good, what the minister mentioned, and that surplus of costs and data on the blockade, means in practice so far, it's been shown that when you're a believer, that you usually go first... You're going to the bank account, and you're going to do it with automation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So because it doesn't cost you anything, let's go into account, if there's anything, well, then we'll look into if there's any other assets, etc. And there are often manipulations, many avoid payments, have nothing in the account, receive money and transfer property to friends, family members, etc. So that's how much it takes to keep an eye on that part. However, what is important, when these rules come into force, that the executive must take the cost and that where he can get the information himself whether there are already some other executives or creditors who are conditionally told in that account, when they see that there is no possibility of charging, they will probably not go in that direction and will thus rationalise the whole process, the costs will be reduced and the position will be facilitated both for the believers and the debtors. And in that sense, I certainly welcome this. So that part is mentioned, of course as regards consumer bankruptcy, I say we will talk more about it today, but certainly these measures should be seen in one synergy and only those together can create a certain effect. Also mentioned here is another law that is often discussed, which is the executive law. So of course we're all aware that the Executive Law is a roof law that regulates this area and that it really depends on it very much. So I am pleased that the new Executive Law is in preparation, that there is a working group and that the Ministry of Justice is working thoroughly with other ministries. However, there is a need to be careful, so going to some speedy solutions overnight without serious consequences that something may lead to is not good. We had these situations in the past, and then they had to pass new laws, parts of the law to be abolished, etc. So in that sense I don't think we should go overnight, I think we really need to prepare a thorough solution. I also stress that this government has already made certain amendments to the Executive Act, now who proposed them or not, I don't think it's a key issue, it's important that the ruling majority voted last year and that it was a proposal from the Government, and this was about these small claims up to 20,000 kunas where the implementation of the only real estate was disabled, which I also think is one step in the right direction. As far as the new Executive Act is concerned, I would not prejudge what will be written in it, which is prescribed, however, what I know or according to the information that I have that will certainly go towards the greater role of courts in the control of the whole process. We know that we have this part of the public-book business and we know that there are a lot of complaints and problems. However, it is also a fact that very often because of the lack of information of citizens and this part of which everyone really needs to work on means serious information for citizens but without demagogy. A lot of people don't know what their options are. So, the public notary makes a decision on the legal basis of a credible I.D. within a period of time. So there's an 8-day deadline for the objection. If the debtor submits an objection within 8 days, the proceedings shall be suspended or the case shall be brought before him which decides whether the claim exists or not. In practice, however, it is very often that simply debtors who do not know enough about the procedure and their rights and possibilities do not object within the legal time limit and then the solution becomes legal. And then, of course, the possibility of contesting that claim is almost nonexistent. So that's something we need to work on, but I'm saying, anyway, it's part of a system solution that we need to find. As for the role of courts, it will certainly be strengthened in that part. However, what needs to be pointed out, I think it is extremely important to make sure that the whole burden does not go to the courts again because then it can again lead, especially in this civilian part, to the part of the civil proceedings until the litigation of the case, to their extension, etc. In this regard, decisions by the EU court in Zulfikar-Pasic and Pula parking are often mentioned. However, those decisions that I would stress here have one restriction. Thus, they concern only the recognition of decisions on performance in other Member States. So, they don't completely ban public notebooks, and that's definitely something that we're all going to have to take care of. Furthermore, one problem that is often, is often pointed out, it is interest. So what should be mentioned here is that there are two types of interest, conditionally speaking. There are contractual interest that are determined, meaning which parties determine by contractual relationship, means two private persons and there are tightening interest which is a kind of sanction if you want to do so for those who do not pay debts on time. Now, as for the impact on interest, or interest formation, it depends on a lot of factors. So, there's not a state that's absolutely free of it as it comes down to interest. So, interest depends on a lot of things. Depending on the risk of the state, on the credit rating, which is then reflected again on the interest they make, which is contracted by private persons, which is determined indirectly and on a tight interest, means in the manner prescribed by the law. What am I saying? I think that the country's ability to determine interest here is limited, and that what we should be looking for is what this government is doing, which is improving the state of the economy, raising credit ratings, and in this sense I note that this government, the first government in this millennium, has practically succeeded in raising the credit rating that was in the trash and, of course, it reflects interest rates. And that's the way to go. Of course, it didn't come overnight, so it stems from economic growth, the growth of the number of employees and complete trends that still, with all the problems that exist, are going better. In that sense, I believe that the results of this already see, both the work of this government and the entry into the EU, that interest is less, we all know that interest is less. So when we talk about housing loans, they were maybe 6-7% 7-8 years ago, today they're 4-5%. Of course, these interest rates may not be as we'd like to be, but I'm saying, the only real cure for this problem is economic recovery, economic growth, improving public finances, which leads to raising amongst other things, is the only factor, but one of the main ones that leads to the rise in the credit rating of the state that will then lead to lower interest and thus facilitate the position of all debtors and blocked. Also, as regards agencies that have taken over these claims, this is a single market that is quite unregulated. It's something that may not have been there for us for so long, so as laws always cough for the situation on the ground, we unfortunately then and there have a situation that maybe some of these things may not have been resolved to the end, that there is not enough supervision, etc. What I am pleased that the minister has announced is that the directive is being prepared at European level where this market will finally be regulated, where quality supervision will be achieved, and in that sense I believe that the situation in the Republic of Croatia will be better. So let me get this straight. Of course, I can't get rid of these laws, not by any law the problems of all blocked. The causes of the problems are very complex, something Lalovac spoke about, but this is really the first full and comprehensive effort of a government to solve this problem or at least to facilitate, both these two laws, so to amend the law and supplement the laws on consumer bankruptcy, and this process that will continue through the adoption of a new Implementing Law. In that sense, I think we all need these changes and complements, or these new laws, to support, I don't think we should use personal tragedy, personal difficult situations to get a few cheap political points, but to really as responsible parties and serious parties, at least those who are, that we should engage together, propose solutions so that all blocked and all actually how believers, how debtors get a fair solution for their situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90395	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and the SNAGA, and time will be shared by respected representatives Bunjac and Alexic. Here you go. First of all, my colleague Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90396	Thank you. I have to ask in advance if I'll be taken by the guards or not because I see that in the last few days Okay, thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: If you do not violate the Rules of Procedure, certainly not.]] So, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Ministers with Associates, Executive Law The executive law is a first-class political issue. [[Please forgive me. Please, can we just keep it down a little bit so that a fellow Bunyan can speak? Let's just keep it down a little bit so that my pal, the Mudsman, can talk. Here you go.]] The primary social, economic, demographic and social problem of which Croatia literally survives. It is already clear that in the history of executions and blockades will be recorded as the biggest mistake of the HDZ and SDP governments, as well as their greatest shame allowed by the moral, material, human and any other dispersion of the independent Croatian state. It was a measure in the moments of the most difficult crisis that had put 1/4 of Croatian citizens in despair, in despair, in destruction, in a Kafkian ambience, in a theatre of absurdities that even an experienced theatre director would rarely direct. For 8 years now, the Executive Law has been taking tribute literally to human lives, and it all began back in 2008 when former Finance Minister Ivan Schuker was present here and spent the introduction of the OIB, so-called The unique home number of the new category, all under the pretext that it will fight crime and that at the moment when all citizens' accounts are in one place, visible, accessible, will then finally be able to prevent wealth, evasion of moves, bribery, corruption and everything that Croatian society unfortunately became known for, not to say infamous. It was a preparation, however, that showed that the goal was actually quite different. And the goal was for Croatian citizens because only they, honest Croatian citizens, can hide nowhere in this country. They're being introduced by the OIB and by charging through the FINA, they've become prey. And all those who stole, they kept stealing and on. How? By way of custody accounts, by means of tax havens, by way of payment of cash by hand. Yes, gentlemen, you take cash on your hands. And it's not just this Mrs. Merzel, she's just showing this last example of how it's done. You bring 100,000 euros in a bag and then you put it behind the radiator, in your purse, and that's it. So you do it and normally no one can execute you and normally that no one can punish you or take it away from you except whistles or these cowards who are pressured by the court and the police, finally agree to be penitent so that, of course, they can save themselves and not the Croatian state. And then, with the help of the OIB, the executive law at the request of the banks, at the request of the creditors, at the request of the public notaries, lawyers, but also the state in a way that all the risk of paying debts is transferred to one side and that is to the level of debt, means exclusively at their expense, all the risks, all the problems to them and only to the believers and in any case exclusively benefit. And then there goes the stampede. The stampede of a world like it has not seen, a culturally civilized Europe where, in 8 years, 10 million executions have been sent, where these bribes and corruption have flourished and all the undeserved fees and where lawyers and public notebooks have, for example, become the richest people in the country who have planes, private planes and who have ships flying to the most expensive destinations and who are careful what is more interesting they bought all the media or almost anything to make their new acquired wealth, the wealth of associated HDZ-SDP recents can justify in public. The state has made it possible for FINA's revenues, it has made it possible for itself to make incomes through different fees and fees, in a way that they charge all of this with automation, that the debtor doesn't even know that it's being handled, that the debtor doesn't even know that some of the funds are being taken away from him and that despite what they're taking, the debtor can't even get information about the state of his debt, imagine. He can't get information about his debt, he has to come to the FINA counter, wait there in line for two hours and pay to tell him who took off his debt and how much more he still owes. Well, that's really amazing. And the state has 1/4 Croatian citizens, meaning 325 000 blocked naturally with members of their families, loaded 65 billion kuna on their backs. So 325 000 poor women in Croatia must pay 65 billion debt, so they could not pay 65 billion debt to all the banks in the Republic of Croatia. To put all the banks together, PBZ, Erste, I don't know what there are, ZABA, I can't pay 65 billion kuna. And we want that to be paid by a poor girl who digs through trash cans. So what's the point? And look, worst of all, FINA took the citizens 45 billion, took 45 billion from them, so they paid according to the possibilities as much as they could, as they had to, they continued to increase their debt. You pay to increase your debt. Well, that's a logic that couldn't possibly understand a child in the first grade. And you allow it, you fold your shoulders. You're fucking alive. Your mind reaches here to the Stone Gate. You're still not interested in anything, your horizon, your consciousness, your anything. You don't think you're responsible because you didn't personally execute anyone. But you raised your hands, you should have read that verdict for the 2014 criminal organization of Judge Ivana Calic, who is responsible? He clearly writes to you there, not responsible, only those who stole, but all those who knew and all who kept silent and all those who approved and all who protected themselves, who were supposed to be representatives of the people and were meant to protect the poor. And they should have heard the yaks, applications and sufferings of Croatian citizens, they should have seen their tears. They should have listened to mothers who couldn't give their children breakfast in the morning and couldn't put presents under their Christmas meal. And they didn't do it, and it's their responsibility, and this is the gentlemen sitting here, driving in the A6, carrying a Rolexe and having a bigger war of pay credit, but he can pay, it's the same phenomenon of his kind. They can pay, they don't have to write off their debts. Mr. Boric, you've passed the executive law, you yourself. Josip Boric. That you yourself, if you already need to communicate with me. The debtors who have been brought into this state have been sentenced for life to pay their debt and their lives at £3800 a month, and they can't do anything to get out of it. Because when they come to the banks, they look at them like they have a plague, like they have AIDS. In time, they begin to see and their friends, so they start to look at their own relatives, they begin to avoid them, because they know they have no money and they will pray and ask for the opportunity to earn, get, bowls 100, 200 or 500 kn. I can't open the craft thanks to Mr. Shucker's fantastic invention of this. Imagine according to Art. 47th executives are allowed to examine our clothes too, according to the executive law. According to Art. The 75th real estate must be emptied at the time of the assessment. So someone's coming to evaluate me, I don't know, the house and they have the right to throw me and my family out. So we've got some dejection before the dissection. When it comes to selling real estate, the perpetrator can't buy his own unhappy, he's not allowed to. The executive order to be taken is above court, above court. So the executives are more powerful than the judges. They have the right to use force. How many times we've seen it in dejection and today. Force, get people out of the only real estate. Even when their home isn't at all, let's say on a mortgage and then kick them out of their homes. We had in Bjelovar, the man was thrown out for debt, for dog vaccination. A woman who worked in Germany went back to Koprivnica for 1400 directs, took her whole apartment. There's no such thing in the world. Tight interest, which is charged 10%. Well, to the debtors, who can handle a 10% interest. Here, I guarantee you, even a parliamentary representative couldn't pay that much interest, because it's too big a 10% interest, after a few years, doubles the debt plus all these fees, plus all these costs. We have situations, that on 10 kn of debt there is no charge of 1000 kn of fees and expenses. And, of course, there was a coloquial name in the people called the Executive Mafia, and that's what people call them, if you haven't heard, ask around. And then what does the government offer here in the end? Now watch out for which they have genius solutions. They say we'll change the debt recording system. We'll record them differently, brilliantly, really. Instead of saying, we will settle the debts in a way that the citizens weaken slavery, they say, no more will be on the fini, but will continue to be. It's like, if my car broke down and I turned on the red light and then I scratched off the light bulb and I said, here's the problem, no light bulbs anymore. And the car's still broken, so of course it is. So they just want to say for the public's sake, here's the view of the FINA is no longer 330,000... 250 and they think it's how they freed people from debt slavery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Maric says, watch this, who owes 500 thousand kuna can pay for it in the wars. So if he couldn't pay by now, if he's been blocked for 80 years, if there's nothing to eat, he'll pay 500 grand in the wars in 60 wars. So he has to pay $9,000 a month to pay his debt in wars. So where'd he get $9,000 if he came into a blockade? Well, if he had $9,000 a month, he'd never be blocked. He says you can pay in wars. So who's gonna pay for it? Tell me, according to your assessment, how many people will pay that debt war. You want me to tell you? As much as my fingers are on my hands. That's it. I support that you will write off every citizen, but you yourself admit that it is a one-time measure, it is not a systematic solution. It's a one-time measure. And this problem must be solved permanently and this problem must be solved not for one group of citizens, but for all of them, we need to find a solution for all 325000, then you will say that you are an honest state, both human and socially sensitive, etc. Every citizen must feel some relief with those measures that the government should propose. Now that I'm going to leave the word to my colleague, the rest of what I have to say about the executive law, I'm going to say in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90397	Now, the esteemed colleague, Alexic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90398	I thank the esteemed Vice President, distinguished ministers and associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us laws that will help the accomplished and blocked citizens in some way, but the permanent solution is not being supervised. So I'll support those laws but it's better that way than nothing. What is missing under these laws are the measures we have already proposed and which are not available. Now, on behalf of the club, I'm going to talk about only one part of those measures that are necessary and in an individual debate, I'm going to talk about other measures. So I'd like to refer to something that my colleague Lalovec was talking about, and that's law enforcement agencies. The agencies that buy out debts that are almost under no state control, or control, are very weak. We allowed one debt market to be created, one brand-new market, one new industry and someone to make huge money on the debts. Someone invested their capital to make money in debt and we as a state did nothing to make that market transparent and not to allow the abuse of that market. And what's going on? Now we're going to make it possible, for example. some kind of legal person to have a tax relief if they write off their debts. And on the other hand, it's far more worth selling those debts for 20, 30% of the value, and that's how they get rid of that debt. Well, no one's gonna take a tax break when they can sell the debt. I have already proposed through the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions a good measure that has not been adopted. I suggested that the offer of the debt to the agencies should be made mandatory, firstly called upon by the debtor and offered to buy him a debt under the same conditions. At that time, however, I was told that it was a moral hazard. So on the one hand, it's moral gambling if we offer the debtor a debt, to buy his debt at a lower price, or to pay it at a lower price, and on the other hand, it's not immoral to offer the agency to buy that debt for 10, 20, 30% value. It's kind of the opposite of one claim with another, one is moral gambling, so it's immoral and the other is moral. How morally this is different, I don't get it. To get the agencies under control first of all, it is my opinion that we need to bring them under the control of the CNB. So everything that applies to credit institutions should also apply to debt-purchasing agencies. As long as we don't do that, that agency will be out of control. They'll buy at low prices, they'll charge whatever they want, they'll abuse what they can abuse. Because what's going on? It happens often that after the debt is sold to an agency, both the old believer and the new believer are charged for a while, the debtor will not be properly informed about what happened. He can't simply come up with the information he comes up with when he talks to the bank. The agencies often act very, very inhumanely, call these people day and night, demand them to pay their debts, there is a certain psychological violence against these people. And they can't get away with it because it's not about banks. The banks, however angry with them are still controlled by the CNB and still do function properly in a certain part of their business, let us put aside what was, I will talk about it in an individual debate but what I want to say at this point is that, with these measures proposed, other measures concerning our infrastructure are also needed and one of these measures is to bring debt collection agencies to the level of business that Croatian banks have in terms of their control, supervision and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90399	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDSS's representative and on behalf of whom the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90400	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates and associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to say that I am not glad that we have to discuss such an important topic in an emergency procedure, it would be much better if we could discuss it in two readings so that we could perhaps be more productive and constructive in the debate, maybe improve the text of these two laws ourselves, but I understand, motive and idea we are all about taking measures as soon as possible, to bring them before the summer break to help our citizens. This first proposal of the Law on the write-off of claims actually states that it regulates the terms and procedures of the write-offs of natural persons who actually suffer over their money. What is important is what the material says, therefore, that it takes into account other than the principal and interest and other costs. That's actually very important, I'm going to say something about it later because, as we've heard from former colleagues who've been saying the data of the total interest claims and the cost of the follow-up, so the debt amounts to a terrifying 65 billion kuna. For years, the Attorney General has been warning in his reports exactly the state of our citizens who, who are actually blocked, have been under the roof for years. And actually they're in one speed circuit, where they can't get out of that circle of interest debt, capital, extra costs. Some of our colleagues have built a political career on this issue, but let's, I mean, it's legal. This is one big problem that the government cannot ignore and has an obligation to resolve. As I said from the Financial Agency, debts are somewhere around 65 billion kn. I would not agree with my colleague, Bunjec, that all these debts, to burden the poverty of the materials that are accompanied by the text of the law, are at 1%, so 1% of the 325 thousand debtors, it is 22 billion, I find it hard to believe that the poverty has accumulated so many billions of debt. And on the other hand, we have almost 60% of the debtors who only hold 4% of the debt. In fact, the structure of their debt is devastating. They actually owe the most for directing, for cell phones, for HRT, so, for television subscription, and that's what's actually devastating, that citizens can't pay basic overhead costs. HRT is a public service, we often discuss it here, we criticise it, we criticize its bad business, we criticize the programming scheme, we criticize the editorial policy, and here we turn out to be even more of a HRT that it has become a public debt generator. There have been talks about it, and I will also mention, what I noticed in the report by the attorney general, that, in fact, the majority of the debt, the citizens owe to banks, that banks are the biggest believers, that compared to 2016, according to a report by the attorney general for 2017, debts to banks were reduced by 6%, but it is not clear whether this is the result of the measures we adopted last year that banks are motivated to write off their debts and to be recognised as a tax relief. And as a matter of fact, the banks sold their claims to agencies dealing with forced payment. Because just the analysis of the debt structure has shown that the share of debt to such legal persons, which deal with this ransom of claims and forced payment, actually, has increased. And what's other worrying, which I suppose will help these laws, is that the other believer is actually a central state. What actually happened to our citizens, and that is to say, although others have said, is not only the financial crisis and the unemployment caused by these debts and these debt crises, that this is not what happened because of the financial difficulties, but also because of the complicated collection process and the apparatus that monitors all this, therefore, the costs that have simply been raised, because they have become so crowded, that some citizens have started to owe more, for interest and for costs and less for the principal. We today, although we propose to this law a one-time aid to address the citizens' problems regarding their duties and their blocked accounts, should be aware that we have, in relation to the former, maybe about 10 years of debt industry. So, no more write-offs of claims, outstanding debts, precisely due to the appearance on the agency market, which deal with forced payment, which is why these companies that are professionally engaged in buying-in, unpaid claims, those claims, which are now hanging on our citizens' heads for years and are actually trying to cash it out. Here from the material is interesting data and it is good that this was taken as an argument to suspend the performance, therefore, analysis has shown that after 3 years of trying to charge the debtor's cash, only 1.19% of the demand is really charged. So, just 1% of the demand, and we've had years of situations where people are blocked by accounts, to do it for years, to write letters to the attorney general that because of 20, 30,000 kunas per 5 years, people are blocked. Whoever was reading the materials carefully, especially from a public debate, will then see that the agencies, which are dealing with forced collection, have just opposed this limitation to 3 years. I think this is taken as a good deadline, and especially that this argument is 1% of the charge, after 3 years by me, a strong enough argument, i.e., an inconclusive argument. What's missing from this analysis is to see exactly what the charge is after two years. By applying this provision, the limitation of the duration of implementation to 3 years already by way of derogation from the law. According to the promoter, the number of blocked citizens would be reduced by 60,000 and the total amount of debt recorded differently, in a system of forced payment, would be reduced to around €33 billion. It's an ambitious achievement to me, I don't know, if it's real, we'll see when it's done, anyway, it would be good if law enforcement turns out to be true. What you'd like to say is something about creditors from the second group of proposed laws, so in the first group there's a country headed by the state with a state apparatus. I think of the credentials where from other groups where the municipalities and cities and their budgetary, extra-accountary users are mostly, they cannot be forced by law to write down their claims and to assume that if the state begins to write off debts that they will be motivated, that they will also be made to have a tax effect for that debt write-off, that they, too, will be recognised as tax-recognition expenditure. I think that law enforcement should be followed and see if actually the believers from another group are going to write off their claims even though this law is a one-time measure, if it would not have proved to be a good carrot enough to motivate the other group's creditors to sign their claims that further measures should then be considered. A real problem that can be precisely as regards creditors from another group as they do very often, especially that I mean municipalities and cities that from various motives primarily political but also social ones did not go into forced payment of their claims, knowing that they cannot be charged by citizens who receive only social benefits, i.e. they have social incomes. So citizens who receive a guaranteed minimum fee, who receive housing aid from their municipality and city, these municipalities and the city know that these protected social incomes are protected from performance, that they have no other income and don't actually go into forced payment at all. Under this bill of law as I read it, I may be wrong to say that these units of local self-government won't be able to write off those claims because they didn't go into forced payment. Here's a colleague from the ministry corrects me if he will, so I read it wrong, and it's good that because I say studying and reading materials, I read that it won't be able to do what's wrong just because, especially to small municipalities that pay for the help for heating, help for heating goes through units of local self-government, so the users go guaranteed minimum fees. Our municipalities know they won't be able to charge those units, of these citizens and then they don't go into forced payment even though it actually violates the law. What's actually going to happen to me in some way has raised the question of what about citizens who don't have their own account. So certain citizens were just trying to avoid the end of the money. They even wanted to avoid the situation of opening a protected account, so they actually have one account or a jury account or they don't actually have it at all, but one part of the citizens doesn't have bills and receives their social income through mail, so it brings them a postman. Will they be able to write off a request? Do they enter a group of blocked citizens? I personally know of an example of a citizen who I know is receiving his social incomes, except social incomes, I know it's due enough for overheads, that he's bound by the state and he's not blocked because he doesn't actually have an account or he has it, but maybe he hasn't been active for years. What needs to be clear is that the inability to carry out the cash implementation is the reason for the suspension of the cash account and in case of judicial enforcement, that has been so far. However, by passing these laws, we will still approach the resolution of long-term blocked citizens. But you need to know and be clear that creditors can change the subject of the exercise, so they can suggest some kind of movement or real estate to charge themselves and that the debt of the citizens will not go away. With two proposed measures in the laws, I believe that they are very good, that they are therefore small measures but that they will show very high efficiency, it is also about them, some fellow MPs have also said, and this is the introduction of an advance on the cost of implementing the performance by the executives. I believe that the executive will be decommited and will assess whether it is worth paying an advance on the implementation of the commission that will not actually result in the payment. And it certainly is good to allow creditors to see the data of blocked citizens, or who is blocked, and how much precisely for the purpose of assessing, to assess whether or not it is worth getting into the collection process at all. The fact is that we now have industry, the debt industry, that we have agencies dealing with forced payment that will certainly go into greater risks because the nature of their business is that they are aware that they will be harder to collect but that they will still benefit. We'll support the proposed laws, I think we might have been able to do it in two readings after all. And I say, it stays, maybe this is open, one question you've answered me, the other question remains about the open, what about citizens who receive their social benefits through mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90401	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90402	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support both amendments to the law because we believe that every law that is turned to help a man in this time of living is a welcome law and in any case should be supported in the extreme case and the debates that are being held here, and the interest of the representatives shows that you have prepared probably a good bill because they are so focused debates. In 1.1.2011, the application of this law began, and then the title came out in the media, the application of the new Code of Conduct began, with as much as 600,000 executions. Today when we speak at a distance of 7.5 years then I always have to ask myself a question by reading this title in the media at that time which was the reaction of the then government if it was suddenly shown that 600,000 executions came. I'm asking a question that I was reacting to by the government at the time why the government didn't react at the same time, why didn't the moment create something to fix the situation and help people and prevent what was happening all these seven years after that? Zero reaction, nothing, silence. I would especially like to highlight here today the problem that then occurred largely in rural areas of the problem of nursing peasant households. The group that we're very much talking about in this case in terms of these problems that are and the group that was even left without its property, because of the blockades, later it was sitting on the property, so it even happened in certain cases that one man out of the Križevci area, I think he's called Đuro from one village of Trema, then he came to me and told me so they took my two estates on behalf of the pension debt, and I haven't activated my pension in my life and I never used it. So that's the kind of situation these cases have been. It simply has to end when such things come to an end only then will we be able to see this situation more realistically and help people living in Croatia, help them feel safe, feel stability and live safer. What I wouldn't forgive is a cell phone debt, it's a debt I wouldn't forgive, and he's pretty big in this part and he'll be forgiven. That's my personal attitude. I don't think anyone who's already gone out of a job has broken his income that has no income has already had a credit for his cell phone in that time, but he's still creating it. But good. We certainly support the forgiveness of the debt in this part, I'm merely expressing my position. There has been a lot of talk here about HRT and about the collection of subscription and debt, I do not know now whether this law is ultimately defined that, for example, HRT will automatically forgive that part of the debt or that Article 10 will have to forgive part of the debt or Article 6. The units of local self-government and forgiveness are also in Group Two, and in principle they are not ordered by law to say that they must do so, and I believe that most local self-government leaders will go in the direction of liberating themselves and going in this direction, as the Government has also set out to forgive part of the debts in this part of the law to this amount of 10,000 kuna that this will also happen in local self-government units and, of course, to all the companies and companies that belong to the units of local self-government, which are ultimately public distributors because they are mostly doing this for utility companies that charge utility services. But talking about this problem, trying to get some political points on people who are in trouble, is certainly not good and I will speak very briefly on behalf of our club with a desire to point out what follows, which should follow. We are in the whole process of making a whole package of different laws that should be directed towards man and making life easier for Croatian citizens. I'm actually interested in prevention, I'm curious as far as possible, how to prevent new debtors like these people who are now going to be free of at least a fraction of that debt and a large number of citizens are going to get out of the blockade? According to us, the tax law package that's being announced is kind of the most important thing. An increase in wages, salary increases and wage increases is what can best preventative action in any case, making it easier for people to fight daily life and be able to fulfil their obligations for services they use. It is also very important to define a very clear social policy, to simply make the order of social giving in Croatia, to get the social givings really those who need and need them, and to make one ventilation of the whole system that is necessary because our people are capable in that part, and often many times many people manage to take advantage of the legal opportunities, use some things that they really look at, and maybe they shouldn't use. It is very important, and it is related to that part about peasant households to consider also how to try to help these households create some income on their holdings that are still there, they live there. It's mostly about older people, but it's about people whose children may be somewhere nearby, living nearby, and I'm sure they can help them on their property, and I'm so sorry that a proposal and amendment has not recently been accepted in these institutions for supporting entrepreneurship development institutions has not been installed by both agro-centres or agro-incubators who should now be helping to produce such small rural households and buying out their products. It can still, of course, be improved in future times. And finally, if we were to look at all this, if people were to get paid, if people were to be given the opportunity in the country to organize production, to organize a buy-in and production, to encourage production again because we destroyed it through all these years, and it was a very clumsy and unfortunate policy, then, in any case, we should also seek the responsibility of the citizens. So he still has to be responsible for what's next. Of course there are always situations, a man loses his job, a disorder happens, something happens to him, so it can't work. In that case, the system must be spotlessly intervened. But if people sometimes go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on that they know they won't be able to settle them, then we're unfair to the same people who always settle these costs, and maybe they're very similar to some people who got into this phase, this kind of situation, maybe they got themselves into such a situation once and for all, that others didn't use that kind of stuff. So responsibility must be achieved, but in order to achieve responsibility, social stability and the social security of citizens must be achieved. If this were the case, if tax law reform were to increase wages, if people were to be provided with some minimum wage that could meet that minimum standard of Croatian citizens, then we could say that we are on track to start paving, pave the way for security and that in the future we may be in a situation that we do not have to pass these kinds of laws and save Croatian citizens. So our club will support these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90403	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90404	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. There are two laws ahead of us. First on the write-off of debts to natural persons and the second on the implementation of the charge over money. And what is to be said at the outset, we are today discussing something that has occurred in our society in the last 10 years, and it is deeply inhumane relations in society, not assessing whether these relations have arisen because of the greed of financial and other institutions, or because of the incompetence of institutions or companies owned by state or foreign property, or whether these problems have arisen and partly because of the irresponsibility and ignorance of these relations by our citizens. The problem is too big, the problem needs to be given significant attention. This is not a solution, a complete solution, this is the beginning of possible solutions to this problem. Here, you can see for yourself that it's possible that the entire debt will end for only 6 thousand people, that for about 200 thousand people will be written off up to 10,000, then they have the right to reprogramme debts, which I think is some new maneuvering space that has never existed before. Of course, no one can completely overwrite the debts with a cloth, but it is deeply inhumane to apply high-tight interest in this process. Whom we interest and whom even the state institutions and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and other state-owned interest institutions with 10%. Well, people, you want to live in Turkey where there's a maximum of 1% interest I mean, why do we do that to our people and to our citizens, I don't understand it. I agree with a lot of what my colleague Bunjac and colleague Alexic used to say here, but I do not agree deeply that all citizens must come under the protection of such laws. I can't accept that the 1%, so somewhere around 3,200 citizens who have 50% of this 65 billion debt, are subject to our interest. Their average debt is when you divide 3200 citizens, it's 1% and they have 52% of the debt, their average interest-free debt is 7 million and 700, it's not our concern. It's not a concern for the social state, there's a certain interest in whether business, between banks, financial institutions, savings banks, these citizens, business has failed, what do we have now? What do we have to do with that? Everyone overstepped or blew their ambitions to faint, thought overnight they'd become rich, and then why would they have to talk about it? But I'm sure we have to talk about those thousands of pensioners who are going to settle their debts because of the unpaid TV subscription, or they're going to settle their debt to telephony operators who are very cunning, and so they're putting you on the phone when all you're saying is that they're making contracts that you're signing and people are pretty righteous or gullible and they're signing things by thinking that on the other hand there's someone who really knows the job and who won't cheat on it. Therefore, this is certainly good even though I would suggest and now using the opportunity, here is the minister, to think again, that retirement households are paying for a TV subscription of 1.5&0 average pensions because they do not have income at the level of the average salary, it would make it difficult to position the Ministry of Finance but not so disastrously, it would be of great help to retirement households. I'm not talking about those who live in a joint household and the point of proof is those who would apply for such a relief, no. In any case, the GLAS and HSU club will support the adoption of this law nicely and gently as a good start, however, I say there is no end to the problem here. It is certain that of these 320,000 if they are removed under this other law, they are currently unblocked, that one number of them will use the debt reprogramme and possibly not appear again as people under the blockade or that the blockade will not be restored from the institutions that have blocked them so far. It will also be for those who have insignificant amounts and yet some believers will calculate that they are not being paid, that they are already being costed rather than profited because the 3 - year block is not insignificant, it takes too long for someone to be convinced that they will return their money. What we also need to take care of, is that we have a number of people at our disposal because they've been raising housing loans. They deserve one complete second of our attention, perhaps some other solutions, perhaps solutions on the trail of some other laws we recently discussed here, that one who can't pay off an apartment to be taken over by the state and that he has a safe home or that he rents the same apartment, that's much better than being in this so-called. to debt slavery because never, ever, ever as hard as they try will they be able to repay debts with such growing interest. So these variants of these housing loans need to be specifically and in other ways to think especially if it is the only property in which a person lives. It's another thing if someone went on a business venture. And lastly, I would like to say, I am grateful for the functioning of the state even though I am only in representative power, to all those who have solved their problems about the performance or their children because often times and children have inherited from parents accounts or performances that they had to solve, I am deeply grateful to them and most grateful to those who keep on living on the finances of this country, who regularly repay and regularly pay all their obligations, and I think that in the future they should think about encouraging measures and for those who are doing so neatly that they too get tax reliefs and not just creditors who will give up the works of their claims, that they are in some way motivated by people to settle their obligations properly and immediately. Here's what I said, we'll support it and monitor the results with special interest, the results of the implementation of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90405	Thank you very much. We will now return to our point that we are discussing, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the honourable representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90407	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. On behalf of the HSS Club, a few words about these two laws. It was said here that the state through 325 000 blocked and 65 billion kn received a huge burden, that it had received one social bomb. The truth is, we just have to tell the truth, that this bomb exploded, and that this bomb is the result of the debt slavery of those 325000 families and that the result is a large number of our citizens who have evicted from the Republic of Croatia. And that surely these two laws that are heading towards helping a part of the citizens are welcome to try to help our fellow citizens, however, it is expected that the blocked association will also be satisfied with the proposed models and solutions, but so on. The information they have passed on to all clubs comes to the conclusion that they are not satisfied that they are one-off measures, that they are not enough to really improve the situation, that people come out of debt slavery and start a new life without debt and obligation. First of all, it is unsatisfactory that banks, first of all those financial institutions, are allowed, to bring people into debt through their business, through illegal fees, illegal interest accounting, and we already have court rulings. They are also dissatisfied and we from the HSS are unhappy that a group of agencies, companies dealing with the purchase of claims and the collection of debts, appeared on the market, and where the state certainly did not do enough to make order because illegal, non-transparent methods of payment also appear. Citizens are also dissatisfied that some kind of property censorship, some kind of social measure, is not all in the same position. So here's our question from the HSS whether there's been an analysis of how many of these citizens who have lost their jobs in the blockade in the meantime. How many are working for a minimumer and how many of them are working on a contract for a certain time again for a minimumer. They are simply not in a position to pay obligations, and especially when these obligations arise from an illegal way of calculating interest or resulting from their being executed by a jury or current account, and they themselves did not know that there was any obligation. Here, Minister, you know that floor... There are still villages like my Drežnik who can't watch HTV because there's no signal because of natural obstacles and we've been trying for years towards that institution, according to our television house with a request to get that signal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People refused to pay compensation out of revolt, and they didn't even know, the tv tax, they refused to pay, they were completed because of what I can't watch. And then there's the expense of a lawyer, a public notary, and for a debt of 500-600 kuna now they have to pay from 1900 to 2300 kuna, and they don't have any income. Or an even more drastic example where the mother contracted her son a field since morning and a half to report her into the support system that she was never working on, no pensions, no incomes to us, and her tax administration... on the basis of this contract that gave the country to use its son without compensation 170 kuna to pay the tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What tax, if the contract, clearly writes without compensation, if she donated to her son to deal with agricultural production and then all the interest comes to it and she simply has nothing to pay from. You have such situations on the ground and should have done one analysis and should have seen how to help these people with these measures and other measures so as not to be blocked and that they could make income for their lives. Among these blocked are about 870 family farms with a debt of more than 430 million kuna. A good part of them not by their own fault came into trouble, especially in dairy that raised farms through operational programs. We persuaded them to start the production, the advisory service gave them instructions, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development granted them loans, and when there was a break in the dairy sector, they remained alone on the market blocked and without income. But unfortunately it also happened that they were completed, that they were left without property, that they had no means to produce through those reprogrammes didn't work out much. And such situations need to find a long-term solution that with them, first of all, to preserve these families, and secondly to raise that level of production because I don't think anyone cares about the Republic of Croatia, and especially for us in HSS that we don't have enough milk production, and we have all the production resources to do that. You also have a lot of craftsmen, including in agriculture who sold their products and did not charge and, of course, both suppliers and financial institutions blocked, and the same one who did not pay them went into bankruptcy on purpose, closed his firm and founded another company and business again. And that legislation we must resolve that in the future, such frauds do not occur because there is no other name, but it is a fraud. He took goods from an OPG, his vegetables and didn't pay him, opened a new company, and he's still in business, and this OPG is in a blockade and he can't keep doing business. And then what happens? For them, people went to Germany or Ireland. So I'm saying it was necessary to do an analysis and see who was in the situation, why he came to that blockade and how to help them. The second question is, why is it exactly that amount of ten thousand kuna written off? What's the definition? Why not 20 thousand kuna, but just 10. Because there's only 6600 that's going to be unblocked immediately. Why not 20, so there'll be 12 or 15 grand? Our proposal from the HSS is to raise it to 20 grand because it would certainly help a larger number of citizens, and that's what we all want. That wouldn't even be a financial burden for the state because you told the ministers yourself that these claims, 85% older than a year, that no more than three years had been charged, not even 1.19% of the total claims, and a good part of those claims should have gone out of date and would not be charged. Then why not 20 thousand kuna? It's a proposal that HSS and I personally make to this debate. It is also our proposal to define the role of FINA, the fee charged by FINA because it cannot be the same service fee for one who has a debt of 1000 kuna and one who has 80 thousand kuna. I think that there should be made more transparent and that these censorships should be developed, and I am particularly saddened and it is difficult that more than 64 thousand are blocked from Slavonia, that more than 20% are blocked from Slavonia, and you know that the highest risk of poverty is right in Slavonia and that it is over, that I do not bid numbers, but most of it has been evicted from Slavonia and Baranja, from Srijem. And we keep saying that they need special measures for such regions because it is not just Slavonia in such problems, there are others but for such regions to create specific programmes and specific support for the economy. Because there's no living in these places without new jobs, no pay, which will be adequate to the needs of a family so that they can live off their wages. Because the fact that this part of the minimum wage is still too small, that as long as it does not cross 5,000 kunas, it provides quality income to these families because the employers themselves are all honored to pay the salaries, and they raise them because there is no labour force on the market and they have to raise them, there are still those who can raise the wages but do not raise them because the law allows them to pay the minimumer. And we are still one of the countries in Europe that is the largest share of the work contracts for a certain time. Why isn't he on indefinite time? I think we need to find models to force employers to re-orient those contracts indefinitely with wages that every man can live on. And here's final, I think it's good that the state is going to solve these problems, that we're not satisfied that it's a one-time measure, we suggest that you consider in the final presentation explaining why these 10,000 kunas, why not 20,000 kunas. And also in that next law on personal bankruptcy, the same amount should be raised to a bar of 40 thousand kuna because if a man works for a minimumer who is in 2018, 2 thousand 751,84 net is about an annual minimumer and he cannot pay with that minimumer directorship, electricity and family his schooling, his children are educated and our wish is to get out of that blockade and not be blocked. Then let's do it one more quality way with really those amounts that will be more appropriate this moment because we see that the cost of living is growing every day and on the other hand a large number of our citizens have no confidence that something better will happen, let's return their faith because if we could all be together with Croatia in victory and if we want to be world champions in football I think we can also in this part of economic financial measures and social measures allow our fellow citizens to have faith in Croatia again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90408	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90409	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. Here at the end of the debate by clubs is just my intervention to thank you, of course, for the comments, the criticisms, they're constructive, I think we have a constructive debate today. I would say that most of them, according to my court of clubs, are not only in terms of upholding the law, and today I think tomorrow's vote in favour of it I think it supports the proposal of these measures and that they have shown and have shown in fact that they are quite aware that this problem is very complex, which was not created overnight and cannot be resolved in any simple way either. There are also, of course, those clubs that, after the clarifications received from both my opening speech and during the break recognized certain good measures and intentions but well, one part of their habitat is not to support and say something positive about the part but I think they also contributed to a constructive debate. You have an extension of course in the context of an individual debate, there will remain my colleagues, so I believe if there is any need of course to answer your additional questions but in any case thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90410	We have one replica of your presentation of the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90411	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I said that I would support these suggestions and still talk about some of the measures that your ministry needs. I must say that most of the measures to be implemented are actually the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. And without those measures, which the Justice Department must simply propose through amendments to the executive law, we will not go to the green branch. I mean, we've been waiting so long for that draft of the new executive law, it's still missing. I'm sorry that it's been waiting so long, of course it doesn't apply to you what I'm saying, but I have to say, a simple draft of amendments to the Implementing Law or a draft of a new Implementing Law will be a crucial factor in solving the problems of blocked citizens and without that we can't move forward with that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90412	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Miro Bulj first called, unfortunately he's not here, so he's losing his right to debate. And the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90413	Thank you. Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll just look back on these suggestions and then I'll talk about some measures that I think are necessary. I'm sorry that Minister Maric is leaving now, but it doesn't matter, I'll discuss it with him at some other time. So these measures I intend to propose concern, of course, the Ministry of Finance. But first of all, I want to say that these laws are primarily about limited measures, measures that will not solve the problem of blocked citizens, but only temporarily in some situations will put out the fire or limit it to some local fire that will later expand and we will not have what we intend to get through these measures. First of all, when it comes to the write-off of debts on some kind of puzzling amount that believers often write off because it is easier for them to write off such debts than to keep carrying them with them and to cause them problems in balance sheets. As far as the other group's creditors are concerned, I don't know how local administration and self-government will react, will they approach law enforcement because they don't actually have any relief if they approach those measures. Again, I wonder what will happen to the situation where the local administration holds the opposition in the opposition's parliament. I believe that in parts of the country where HDZ's rule of law is supported by local administration, however, in areas where it may not be in HDZ power, it may not be supported. So it all depends on the will of the local community. Believers, legal persons, I also doubt that they will access debt write-offs because they have had such an opportunity to get tax relief before, so they haven't written off their debts, they prefer to sell debts to agencies for 10, 20, 30% of the value of the debt, and they settle partly, then the agencies carry out further debts. As far as suspending the performance, the problem is that debt continues to exist, the problem is that after the monetary charge stops, a new type of performance follows, and that is the performance of real estate and movables. I'm afraid this is going to create a new round of operations because the creditors who can't charge more money, will go into real estate, it won't be good, and besides, it opens up the possibility of a movement, which I know, a little bit like televisions, some other household devices where there's gonna be some kind of psychological violence against people when they come into their house and start doing them for these tiny parts of the debt, so that we can at least partially settle down as believers. Further Article 20 of this Implementing Act is asked as a result of the use of GDPR. Is there anything in line with the new rules on the protection of personal data? Article 21 also, if all of this is in line with the protection of personal data and so far we have not had the possibility that after the performance has been completed, the executive has the right to request some kind of documentation and in the future he will have the rights as the perpetrator, he will have the right to obtain all the information he has the right and the performer and after the completion of the exercise, in fact, that right should only be an executor. But if I were to return to what is most important in terms of these measures, and most importantly, it would be parallel to those measures to implement some other measures that have already been partially rejected in the previous period and partly come in some future period for discussion and here in the Assembly and also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, I wouldn't be too concerned with situations that don't concern the Ministry of Finance, but I will point out, and I'll talk more about it when they talk about the Consumer Bank Act, first of all, it's necessary to amend the Executive Act in the way proposed by three clubs, I personally prepared some proposals that are supported by the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA Club, MOST Club and the HSS Club, and one of these measures is to remove the possibility that the believer would charge from the debtors legal costs before the trial. Therefore, those legal costs which are charged because the lawyer conducts an executive procedure on behalf of the credentials should not be charged to the debtor unless it is a court procedure. Of course, in that case, it's something else entirely. Furthermore, it is necessary to increase the amount of 20 000 kuna of the principal which limits the ability to launch the implementation of the property to 50,000 kuna. It is necessary to prevent the possibility of carrying out a property that is burdened with a mortgage from a loan in which no interest rate is agreed in the correct manner. So much for amending the executive law. The Law on Mandatory Relations proposes that the tightening interest be limited to the size of the principal and that it cannot be charged after the size of the principal has reached what the EU court has already found possible, that it is not the opposite of EU law. Then the costs, the principal and interest charged now in order of the first expenses, and then interest and then the principal, should be reversed in order, so that the costs remain first but the second place of charge should be the principal instead of interest and only third place interest. In this way, it will be possible for the debt to finally begin to decrease. And now a little bit more about the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry has rejected my proposal since last year, a proposal to amend the Consumer Credit Act which would address the problem of illegally established fixed interest margins in loans agreed with consumers before 10 January 2013. In all such loans, well not all of them, but in almost all such loans with a variable interest rate, banks have negotiated with debtors a unfair way of changing the interest rate by decision of the bank. So this is also seen at the Ministry of Finance, so at the time of the former Minister Linic, an amendment to the Consumer Credit Act was adopted where it was prescribed in Article 11 that banks which did not contract with debtors a fixed part of the variable interest rate and a variable parameter at a variable interest rate must define, coordinate and finally negotiate with their debtors. Unfortunately, these parameters have only been defined and sent to the debtors by simple mail that since 1 January 2014, their variable interest rate is such that it has a fixed margin such as the Euribor, Libor or the national reference interest rate. After that, 13 June 2014 The High Court of Commerce makes a final ruling that seven banks have negotiated an unfair interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank, that these 7 banks should not behave in the same way or in the future. However, banks continued to apply illegally established interest rates, banks continued to apply an illegally established fixed interest margin and banks today apply in all loans not refinanced in the meantime. So if the loan is refinanced in the meantime, the banks have agreed on a proper way to change the interest rate. However, if the loan is not refinanced, the banks continue to apply such unlawfully established interest rates. And this year I've already sent three variants of the proposal to solve this problem to the Ministry of Finance and I've asked the Minister of Finance to take me in for an interview, try to finally resolve it and remove this illegality from banking business. Even the Supreme Court judge said that this could not be resolved by the court but exclusively by the legislator, at a conference on judicial practice. So we have confirmation from the court that the courts can't solve the margin problem but can only solve the problem of overpaid interest. The margin problem can only be solved by a legislator. I call once again on the Ministry of Finance to invite me to talk at the latest in July to see if we can find a common language and whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia can propose a final solution to the problem of illegal fixed interest margins in loans agreed before 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90414	Thank you very much. The next individual debate should be colleagues of Branimir Bunjca, gone, losing his right to debate. So the next individual debate will be that respected colleague, Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90415	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. So before us are the packages of the law that we are actually trying to enable too many citizens who have been in blockades, which have been recorded in the way that it now seems since 2010 and '11 respectively. the year when FINA was authorized to record and conduct procedures and then the sublimation occurred in a way that completely all those seduced and procedures were actually transferred to FINA from all banks. What's interesting is that in all these procedures, we can track how many these ranges are from the smallest amount to the largest debt shown or recorded by 42 billion is to the banks, which is otherwise to banks 41.38%, which is over 17 billion kuna, while according to the total financial sector, it's more than 48% or 21 billion kunas of the principal without interest. When we look at the structure according to the other credentials, then we see that according to the state, it's about 12.3% of the local self-government, and according to the other credentials, it's almost 40%. What is particularly concerned when you look at the structure that more than 15 billion kunas make claims to craftsmen, legal persons, citizens, so everything that has come out of business relationships is one additional burden that exists within payment and payment system that this problem of inequitability then generates other problems because automation is being poured over into all other segments of society. If we look at nominally what this means in relation to the number of citizens then we see that to the state 160,000 citizens is due to the minimum amount to the largest, I will not now specify what it means from 5,000 or from a million kuna, but it is important to say that in the structure there are 188,000 of those who are in debt to teleoperators, therefore more than to the state itself, while according to insurance houses, lisins, etc. More than 59,000 citizens in debt. These measures, which are actually proposed, in fact, this measure as a one-time measure, I personally believe that each of us must take care of its obligations and its debts. In any case, it is necessary to see that some of these citizens of natural persons have come into certain situations in a way that they have both had business problems and health problems, they have lost their jobs and so on, so it is very difficult for them to generally approach them without getting into everyone's problem individually. Citizens who are debtors of up to 10,000 kunas are over 107,000, and they will surely be partially relieved in this way. But what is important is that from this effect, the real effect will be only those that will be permanently released, which is these 6,600 citizens to whom it is the only debt. When we look at the total of 850 million kunas that will be written off in the structure of this measure is about 280 million to the Ministry of Finance, 250 to the HRT, and about 155,000 to health according to probably HZZO, then we may also have to mention here what happens to that part of the legal services contained in the very work that applied to HRT or HRT subscription. But when we compare one effect that makes up one law and another, then we see that in more than 5 billion kunas, 5.3 billion kunas are exceptions, so the traffic that happened in the jury accounts of citizens whose incomes were excluded from the exercise. These are huge funds that actually happen beyond the payment system, and these citizens are freed for the reasons that these are certain fees, social benefits, child benefits and so on. However, we must make a special note of this. The sale of claims that occurred throughout this period is also one of the major problems, as this includes over 17 billion claims. So it's an extra brake that narrows down our actual instrumentation in this process itself. In particular, I must point out that there is a problem in seeking units of local self-government. In fact, in the total claims mentioned by FINA, local self-government units are looking for some 680 million kunas. However, there is likely to be all claims relating both to the utility and to the leases and taxes. Taxes with units of local self-government or have been taxed on the company and taxes on holiday homes. Meanwhile, the tax on the company fell off as a tax, however, certain claims remain to be made which will allow all these backlogs to be cleared, and also the holiday tax was largely charged successfully. So, the local self-government units themselves in this instrumentation and in this Law won't be able to do much in the sense that they can clear up some of their claims because we need to note that most of the claims of local self-government units come primarily on behalf of the municipal fee and the lease of business space. The local units will, in this case, be referred to a regulation that exists to collect criteria and criteria of the procedure and postpone payments. However, according to that regulation, it has also been used since 2013 and 2014 when it was actually necessary to publish a public call and to which we have had very poor responses in this regard. So that unit of local self-government won't have many options. However, in any case, this other law relating to the implementation of the budget implementation is very helpful in the procedures to review certain procedures, to carry out deblocks in terms of these long-blocked ones, which will then be able to give a certain breath so that they can then structure their payment and that they can actually make some shifts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90416	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90417	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here at the beginning just to warn you of this mysterious disappearance, Mr. Bukarica, listen to you. Two people before me on the display list suggesting that you pulled them out, and I don't see those people in the assembly, which happened yesterday to some opposition MPs who then forgot to speak all day. I would ask the same approach to HDZ representatives or the majority and the opposition because what you've done now falls into one precedent, that you two have deleted just because you haven't seen them in the assembly, and yesterday you're I believe you've been telepathically informed that [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague Maras, first you speak outside the topic, and secondly, if you are very interested, they have been called to withdraw which is a very common case both in your club and in all other clubs.]] Okay, at the same time, the two of them. [[No, on the phone. There's a device like that, if you didn't know.]] All right, all right. Here, we believe you. Thank you very much, and I'm continuing the debate on this subject now. Citizens who are watching us and who are wondering how we're going to help them and how much these government measures will help them listen to and the association of blocked, 2015 HDZ coalition partner who says these are fire measures, that there are no other than I would say a little bit of creating the impression that something is going on, that it's not going into the depth of the problem. Even the President of the Republic often points out that these measures will not be done too much. It will help one part of people, and especially this to not spend more than three years, but when we hear the minister's argument that such executions are charged in 1.19%, then the question of what kind of assistance is it and what is the generosity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that has put a limit to what has been charged only in 1.19% so far? So they didn't help almost anything. My proposal instead of being after three years and a six-month bill. to simply delete for 3 years. The charges by the end, that she ceases to be like that led by the FINA. What's three years for? So why should people be in a cramp for three years, and then there's a small charge and then three more years and so on forever. So if someone doesn't make the income and they don't do it in six months, I think it'd be fair for that performance to end. When we talk about how much a problem this is, it is 326 000 of our fellow citizens who are in debt slavery, who have blocked accounts that are done and who in some way must be on the border, not on the border, but in general illegally earning their lives so that they can save themselves and their families, and there is in essence the inability of the state to deal with it and there would not have been an amnesty of any government so far, but I need these measures to be a little stronger, the amount should finally be removed so that the costs of the implementation rarely exceed the costs of the principal, and we had a proposal in the Croatian Parliament that was given by the SDP's Club of Representatives to reduce and not to keep the cost of the implementation or procedure at that capital, that people for 230 or 200, 300 kunas know the costs of implementation of 1000, 1500, 1500 kunas and then never to get out of the government should be resolved. First we solve the principal and then let the lawyers, the executives, the public notebooks, and all those who live very well from carrying out their duties to the most, I would say, the more vulnerable part of our population, and these are people who are unemployed and who have no opportunity to settle the debts they have earned at one point in their lives. So I see this as one move that the government has taken that will help one part of the people, here it's written 6672 but that will not solve the problem in the long run because the problem needs to be solved on the other hand. People need to be given a decent job, they need to provide people with criteria by which the costs of execution and procedure will not eat the principal and should be resolved and the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia which rarely solves certain things so long that people who might even resolve their own actions and debts eventually fail to do so. 42 billion kunas owed by our fellow citizens, the 326 000 that have been completed is important here to tell Croatian citizens, the government's attempt to solve something and on the other hand, we also see the government's attempt to take over 90 billion kunas with pension reform to Croatian citizens, their savings that would be to pay their pensions. And then the citizens rightly ask themselves what's going on here? They help on the one hand, they will settle 32 billion fine debts up to 10 000 kuna, and on the other hand they are trying to state and take savings from more than 90 billion kuna to Croatian citizens who have saved for their pensions. And it shows that basically the government has no consistent policy at all to help the citizens, but that is all the controversial unrelated measures of the ministry to the ministry, here, specifically the Ministry of Finance, and on the other hand Minister Pavic, who has lost himself, escaped from the public these 2, 3 days and I said that already yesterday, probably left by Prime Minister Plenkovic to burn down because I don't know who would be smart enough to support the measure that would take away their more than 90 billion kuna from the citizens. I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to deal with this problem in a better way. I've already made one proposal, and that's to delete these three years than to delete if there's no charge at all to a certain amount within six months. that she's breaking up. And let those who insinuate and offer citizens, take part of the risk, most easily sell a product to someone, I said out of 1,000, 2, 3000 kuna, then sit him down with the cost of the execution and eventually suck our citizens practically a little by little for the rest of his life. So it's six months. If there is no performance, it should be suspended in this way because, on this proposal, every 3 years may be extended if kuna, two or three is paid. So there is no real desire or will to help Croatian citizens, it is the need for Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric to present certain solutions, Mrs Glavak and Mr Babic, that you answered the phone just before Mr Reiner, so here you are to know, I am informing them only to know that you have checked them out. So on this side, I would like it to have the sincere intention of the Croatian government to help, to have the possibility of not only 6000 people of 326 thousand being released from debt slavery because when you refuse 6000, 320 thousand remain blocked without any possibility of being built, except that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic sends them with a one-way ticket to Germany, Ireland and other countries that are in the business environment, which offer perspective, which offer a fair environment, which offers a country where people will be able to live with dignity from their work, which is unfortunately during Andrej Plenkovic and his government in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90418	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm going back to the scale of what we're talking about and what you're talking about. I'm just gonna remind you what we should have done. Close your eyes to 300 and a few thousand blocked citizens. Do you even know how many citizens in the Republic of Croatia in every county you might think is advanced and well developed have problems and we haven't done that. It's simply been generated over a few years. For your information, on the list of blocked citizens observed by cities and municipalities, at the amount of debt blocked citizens, Čakovec stands out, and you probably think that there is something more positive in Međimurje County that precedes those praises. So there's a problem there, too. What is the government supposed to do? Say so and close your eyes. I think this is a good social measure and a component that the government has provided to our blocked citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90420	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90421	This is too small and we all agree. Because if you help a smaller part of people, if you still have people working on black to feed themselves and their family, if as the president justifiably cries out to stop this negative demographic sequence in the Republic of Croatia and imagine how loud you were in 2014-2015, then you talked in 4 years it left the Republic of Croatia 100 thousand. So now, in one year 2017, 100,000 people left Croatia. That's what you need to worry about. The mass of these people went because they can't live here because they can't even get a job so their salary won't be completed and they can't live in Croatia. On the other hand, we need to think, and we need to make a prerequisite for people not to leave. It's a demographic measure. Give people a job and they can live on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90422	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90423	Your Honor, Vice President. I have just filled the exposure battery with all of these proposals and a great empathy that the parliamentary representatives are, especially those of the long-standing Croatian Parliament that show for completed and blocked, harassed, I cannot help but wonder, so what have you gentlemen been doing so far in all previous governments. I can't say I won't either, I'll support the proposals because they're the first positive suggestions to at least save someone. The old story says, if we saved one, it's like we saved thousands of people. But I can't help but talk about writing books in Croatia besides all these concerns about the finished ones. It's an executive mafia. It is just one of the many books written on this topic, describing various ways, various human fates that people have experienced because of the performance, blockades, interest, interest, and all that is normal in Croatia, and in some countries it is not normal. So also in the Republic of Croatia will soon be normal to show the film, the material is already collected, and the film will talk about 1820 people who committed suicide in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the film will display authentic videos that testify to numerous suicides that are directly due to the law of law. Many in a cell phone camera have declared why they will kill themselves and later commit suicide. Some of them poured gasoline and set fire to it, so someone filmed it. The institutions did not assist even though the suicide announcements were reported to the competent authorities. We just witnessed one game this morning, one performance by a respected representative who could sing a song yesterday drunk again, today, not a performance that resembles anything but what it points to. The Live Wall party represents the decommissioned, appears on all actions, encourages poor people to resist institutions and laws, and in this resistance to their own backs burdens even more debt, even more burdens. It is another 40-50 thousand kuna that they have to pay more than they had before the raid, and this is being encouraged by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar and similar to them to resist and thus get to the bottom of it. Because someone has to pay both the police and these firemen and those emergency aids that come to the site of the raid, and none of these people at the moment they resist provide that information, and especially those who, on their fate, will be able to score and kidnap on a live broadcast film watch, any more like it or any other voice. They don't care about these people because they serve their purpose, and that's just the execution they and the media make for them. However, there are cases of one unrecorded in the film, that people die, the family burys them but immediately afterwards come the executives who dig up the deceased to sell the burial ground. The case of a man who was removed from a fresh grave in Zagreb by Miroševec and cremated to sell his grave was also recorded. How many cases are there? And there are other cases in the Executive Mafia book, so I'm going to read all sorts. She returned from Germany and learned that she had lost her apartment because of a debt of only 1400 kuna. Danica Pavlic, Koprivničanka who lives in Germany and in Koprivnica lost her apartment due to the 2011 debt. Says when I came to Koprivnica last week, outside the door of my apartment on F. Galovic Street 6, I saw a man and a woman change her name at the door. After the cattle asked what they were doing, they said they bought an apartment and now they own it. She didn't get any debt notice. In Kostanjevac, who due to an administrative error, due to an existing debt of one June, should pay in the executive procedure of 13 000 kuna, the case, after being commented on by former Minister Martina Dalic and to make the absurd, is not due to the state to any June but rather to the subscription of 7,500 kuna. And I'm going to talk about fina in the following way, so a young businessman who opened a company for 20,000 kuna and who wasn't liquid enough asked for a bailiff, a payer, who's going to issue a Bianko note in his favor to cover his contract with a particular firm that's his believer. By the way, I was that bail bondsman, and it looked like this to you. After a well-known company, which also owns Roto Dynamics, companies that deal with the supply of drinks, the same firm lets all the creditor's debtors' debtors' debtors charge them at the same time to fill their empty hole in the account. At the same time, as she released the bill on the credit card, she was charged on the 22nd day. FINA is not obliged at all to inform the debtor that it has blocked it. After that, blocked when paying some bills, he found that he was blocked. Then he found out it was day 22. FINA is not obliged to notify, the Roto Dynamic, therefore a believer, to inform FINA that it has been charged in its claims. All this agony lasts 60 days and longer and ends at the Trade Court in Osijek. Fortunately, the judge was sick so she could not complete the case and would have been a firm in time closed, but a lawyer who, with all the documentation attached, determined that the debtor had respected and paid off all his obligations in time, but because of the accumulated problems in the process between the FINA, between Roth, between the commercial court, had closed his company and I don't think that he would ever open it in Croatia again. These are just one of the examples in Croatia that happen to those who are executed, delegated and all those who suffer because of this condition and because of the laws that we all detest here together, and we have contributed to them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90424	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90425	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Culey, we have spoken several times and you have repeatedly said that you support what I am trying to push through the Croatian Parliament. I can tell you that you are not the only HDZ who thinks so, there are at least five of you who have given me support for what I do while we're sitting on coffee so I invite you here publicly, I'll tell you what other colleagues and colleagues are, I won't tell you publicly, I know you're not afraid so I'll say, you have no fear of party discipline and I'll say that you support me, I won't mention it to the others, but here, I invite you that when I tell you which colleagues and colleagues, to make contact with them, and to form a small group that will talk to me about what we can solve and then to solve it through the Government of the Republic, there's no need for me to suggest it anymore because it will never go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90426	The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90427	Dear colleague, you have well noticed that when it comes to party discipline and also because of my former functions, I have never progressed in service because of such attitudes, so I will consider and consider your every proposal as well as all that is good for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90428	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90429	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Culey, you've noticed well, it's actually a good thing you pointed out that we were already in the 8th month. In 2016, in our programme we talked about helping blocked citizens by respecting all socio-economic moments in which they live and their difficult situation, and we are actually doing so with these two bill proposals. The fact is, and this should be pointed out that in the simulations of the Ministry of Finance that covered some 153,000 citizens, 280 million kunas owe to the Ministry of Finance about 280 million kunas, 250 HRTs, and 155 million kunas to HZZO. And through that part will help Croatian citizens, 6672 citizens will be directly unblocked. It's a good thing you noticed this for the Living Wall and this performance today. So, instead of taking care of the blocked citizens and the solutions that they can propose in this reading, regardless of what the emergency procedure is, they don't do it, they do the performances actually get out of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90430	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90431	... The first performance of his colleague Sincic was at Nevenka Topalusic Square on the staircase in Savska, former 66. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So when he came to support the tenters, as they call them today, and then we were Croatian defenders. And that was the first show. I was hoping they'd stay on the trail, so they'd have support and defenders from all over the world, and they didn't bring citizens into this sort of delusion, so those who were severely damaged another 40-50 thousand kuna so that someone could load them on their necks, no one can fix that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90432	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Also welcome to the representatives of the Ministry who are present here. Today we are discussing proposals for amendments to laws relating to over-indebted citizens, blocked and completed. Once again, it's a very complex problem. It is an economic, social, political, health problem and it is one of the biggest problems of Croatian society and state, but you see. As the government comes, everyone tries to do something, not to say order, to show the public that they're doing something, that they're shaking, that they're trying, and on the other hand, the total debt of the citizens, it's constantly growing. The latest data suggests he has grown from 42 to 43 billion kuna. No one knows exactly what the structure of this debt is, but it's supposed to be only about 10 billion kuna. What does the 33 billion kuna apply to? Certainly on a tight interest, and on the other hand extremely rudely high costs of executive procedures by law firms, public notebooks and FINA. How do you solve this problem? You see, I've been following it today, you see, the last thing I'm saying. Here from all the parties, the clubs were talking, individuals, believe me, I haven't recorded a single particularly important proposal that would significantly solve this problem. So instead of just repeating what is said, in front of the party we change Croatia which has certainly the strongest expert team, and we presented at the programme convention two months ago the foundations of solving the problems blocked, and we will soon do so in detail. So, I will make the most important proposals for a solution that the party will change as a serious party and when I look at the other parties that they offer, it is misery and what it is. They don't even have a vision, let alone practical solutions to how to do it. So what do you need to do? I will remind you that from 2.5 months ago in this House, I have held the consultation of several legal experts on how to resolve the problem of legal interest and here we will soon propose an amendment to a law that regulates tight interest rates because this way of determining tight interest as so far, it must indeed legally produce an army of blocked and completed in the Republic of Croatia. It's a simple foundry law that needs to be completely changed like that. On the other hand, what is the next proposal for a solution? It is that more enforcement activities cannot be done in public notebooks than all cases and such disputes must be returned to court. What is the next solution? You need to approach your debt forgiveness. After one year of trying to comply, the collection means the application for an application, if it cannot be charged, that debt should be written off or forgiven. After what needs to be done? You see, yesterday we discussed a second pension pillar, pension reform, etc. What does the debate on pension reform and the second pension pillar mean? That's what comes when we retire. However, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens who listen to us. However, a pension is due. Tens of thousands of our citizens are now at risk. Many do not know if there is going to be a pension, to experience retirement because of this burden of blockades and these huge debts they are exposed to. So we suggest that the money from the second pension pillar, which many call savings here, be freed for citizens to use that money to unblock their accounts and save them from the execution. I repeat, let the legal solution use so-called. Saving, if it's saving, money from the second pillar to all those who are blocked or under the roof to be saved today, and by retirement they'll be found to get room to relax. It's a completely innovative solution that's been made public for the first time. Furthermore, in front of the party We change Croatia I demand that no such partial talks be conducted. You see, every year we change the executive law at least once every year. Let's finally be serious. We declare the moratorium to be operational and blockades from 6 to 12 months until all laws relating to blockades and executioners are amended, and there are certainly several laws involved. Mandatory relations, executive law, the Law on tight interest, on public notebooks, etc., etc. Besides, if I'm already looking for a moratorium from 6 to 12 months, so please look, Agrokor's already 15 months. In the moratorium of paying anyone, anything, and the poor citizen, he's got everything on his shoulders, he can't get a 6-month moratorium. So there's nothing there, there's constitutional rights violated, there's some equality, there's no equal legal entity compared to physical, etc. After all, the law requires the abolition of the concept of the account blockade institute. So are we in the EU? Celebrate these days' entry and celebrate these days' ceremony, the EU's entry concert, is there an account block there? There isn't. Well, gentlemen, we're not in the EU. Therefore, especially those who make big speeches on this anniversary finally resolve this issue. In that sense, I'd like to say the following. Why has no government managed to solve this problem so far blocked citizens and executed? Well, because they're all subordinated to the centers of financial power. First of all, the banks. Well, it's quite clear who's leading the main word in Croatia. And the party Change Croatia and I personally as representatives, we have the interests of the Croatian people ahead of the interests of the banks. And let me make that clear here. You can't even say it, let alone do it. And I'm even sad to hear this other party that is not in power now and it's leading Croatia, as it justifies, what social democracy is, there's nothing there, you've led both of them neoliberal politics and she, we can define it as left and right, it's pure neoliberalism that you've been doing, you're citizens, you're interested in Croatian people's last holes playing. What is the next party proposal to change Croatia? In HBOR, instead of the banks selling claims, uncharging, especially citizens, instead of selling them to various agencies that are not under any supervision, control, and that they are harassing citizens, let them form, establish a debt buy-back department, primarily citizens. So I repeat, to hear Croatian citizens, within the framework of the HBOR as soon as possible to establish a debt buy-back department, primarily citizens. This has America, the EU, these are organised, smart countries that save their citizens. They don't hand them over to the banking system and the financial oligarchy. What else should we do to clarify that we never discuss the problem again, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament? Well I simply should, I suggested a year ago here, the amendment I brought to each party in the process to pay their expenses, so go ahead, run the errands if you're to be sued but you're to pay not me that I owe. If you had adopted that a year ago, 80% would have been less people exposed to blockages and executions. So let's not talk and don't say that we don't know here, that we don't have solutions, we have solutions, but we don't have enough hands in the Parliament yet, but it will be soon. Everyone who's been involved in this, you're gonna get out of here. Everyone. Not because I want to, our citizens finally understand and see who's fighting for them in the right way in this House. And just to say, why didn't the Blocked Society accept your proposals as a good solution? So these are just solving crumbs from the table, this isn't a consistent solution, it's a firehouse, it's got - it's got meaning and the goal of a PR-ovski showing the marketing public that something's going on. And I conclude, only new people here in the Parliament, in the government are currently serving institutions, can dear citizens, especially blocked you out of this situation and let's do it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90434	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90435	Thank you. Dear colleague Lovrinović, I, of course, support everything you've said, we don't have any important differences in what we do, we suggest similar things, someone would say that one of someone copys but doesn't copy any of them, these are common familiar things, we haven't invented hot water, it already exists in other countries, so there's nothing new there, we just need to take the best possible solutions from the environment and the problem will be solved. We already have a tight interest in Slovenia not to cross the size of the main, the EU court said it is okay, we have a solution of interest margins in Hungary, and that is fine, executive procedures across the EU are conducted through courts and not through public notaries, therefore, we are the only exception in the EU. So I support everything you've said, but while we're not enough, we won't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90436	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90437	Dear fellow Alexic, as if it were yesterday, I remember when we had to, when it was just two, three years ago, when we had to go from the square of the French Republic to Mark's square and before the CNB. It was only then that people realized they had to solve this problem. I don't know if or how long we're gonna have to wait here, discuss it, or invite people also to walk one of the streets but in a far larger number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90438	And the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club will now be spoken by the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90439	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I've already said a lot about this package, actually, about the part of the package concerning the Ministry of Finance. I said that I would personally support, I don't know if my colleagues from the Living Wall will support, we have this kind of cooperation that's very collegiate, they don't force me or I don't force them to do the same thing, so I'm going to support them if they're going to support these laws. I'll support it for a simple reason, I've said better than nothing. As much as these laws won't solve the problem until the end, but in part it will help some people, that's a fact. What the Ministry of Finance must take into account in the next period and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the set but of course things come from the Ministry of Finance, two important things about me. So something I've already suggested and what hasn't passed and what hasn't been solved but has to be solved. So now I'd like to talk about these things a little bit more. One thing directly affects blocked citizens, another thing indirectly to future blockades. One proposal could very much help blocked citizens and another proposal could in any way reduce the risk of blockage in the future. I told you before, the law enforcement agencies aren't properly regulated. Therefore, the demand agencies may even require, perhaps even, a special law that would frame them in frameworks that are normal in a civilised country such as the Republic of Croatia. Because those agencies are kind of savages in this country. They work quite differently than banks do, they're not controlled by the state the way banks are, they're not controlled by the CNB, and it's true that they're working here and making money on debts, that's not good. Another problem that can be solved and which must be addressed and which I have already talked about has been the unlawfully arranged fixed interest margins that banks have defined voluntarily with their decisions and have never negotiated with their debtors. So I'd like to brief on the three variants of the proposal that I've already delivered to the Ministry of Finance and that we haven't talked about at the table yet. The first variant I sent would solve these fixed interest margins in such a way that they would be reduced to the frameworks within which they would be agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship. This is the way I think it would be completely fair and would be in line with the market conditions that prevailed at the time when the credit agreements were negotiated. From the point of view of some right and justice, it's a completely acceptable solution. The second variant is the variant of the Hungarian model, Hungarians are in such loans, they said over the knee, the fixed interest margin will be one and will increase in future by the amount of BUBOR, and BUBOR is the same as in Croatia's ZIBOR, which is for the euro loans EURIBOR, which is for CHF loans to LIBOR, it is for the foreign exchange of BUBOR. So the Hungarians simply said over their knees in such loans that you did not contract a margin, the margins will be one and will change as the future BUBOR will change. It's very simple, I didn't hear the Hungarians have any problems. And I finally delivered it to the Ministry of Finance and a third proposal that I think should even be acceptable to the banks. This proposal consists of all loans where no interest margins are agreed should be settled as follows. Banks should send all such debtors an offer to regulate the interest rate by annexing the contract in a legitimate manner. And how? Therefore, in relation to the type of credit and the currency of credit, a market interest rate would be offered, the average interest rate applicable for 2018 for all loans. In this way, all such loans would be reduced to the same frameworks. Therefore, the CNB would calculate what is the average interest rate for residential loans, for kunas, euro and CHF loans it still has and what is the average interest rate in 2018 for non-intentional loans, for kunas, euros, CHF loans and others if it has other currencies. Banks should also offer such an interest rate to debtors who do not have an agreed interest rate in a legitimate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90440	Thank you very much, dear colleague Alexic. Here I am sorry that you said all this and there are 10 people in the hall and literally none other than you who are very much in favour of the rights blocked, they are loud in it, they create their careers on it, etc., too bad they haven't heard your suggestions. But, okay. We will now conclude this debate and vote on the proposals of these two laws when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90441	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Dear MPs, honourable MPs, I ask you to take your seats so that we can proceed with the vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I said, will now join me in voting on the points discussed. The first is the Final Proposal for the Law on discharge of debts to natural persons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 369. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Orsat Milenić, a club of representatives of the HSS. I would like to ask the proposal's presentation to be made on the amendments submitted, with us is the respected Finance Minister, Zdravko Maric, the Ministers of the Republic of Croatia. Let's go to the first amendment, representatives of Peja Grbin and Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90442	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendment is not acceptable, but in the course of the debate and is appropriate to one replica, I have said and confirmed and explained why this amendment, i.e., we cannot accept this concept. So I'll just briefly mention, you know, myself, what is the purpose and purpose of the proposed law and the packages of these laws that we came with a few days ago into this esteemed and high house. So, a one-time aid measure, specifically in this bill, by solving the problem of a larger number of citizens with blocked accounts, i.e. opening up opportunities for deblocking their accounts, thus facilitating the situation. However, it should be said that the debts of natural persons, whose financial resources are not implemented, are not subject to this law, are proposed to other regulations, i.e. other laws which determine the write-off of the debt to socially endangered citizens, such as art. 148th of the general tax code, while, for example, the implementing law, prescribed restrictions on exemptions from the enforcement of, for example, the proposal for a real estate application, will be rejected if the principal of the demand for which the non-measurement is marketed does not exceed the amount of 20000 kn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90443	An obvious colleague of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90444	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you have brought the purpose of this law in the first place. Because if for someone we're spending our time on real estate, we don't need to specifically prescribe that we're going to write him off a debt of £10000 or someone who's going to be cashed out of his apartment tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it doesn't need to be for those who've been blocked. However, you forgot that the creditors of Group 1 are not only the Republic of Croatia, nor are the claims of Group 1 merely the tax debt. The requirements of Group 1 in accordance with the provisions of the law of write-offs are much wider. And we're getting into a situation right now, and I want it to be perfectly clear, and you said it in your debate, that is, the answer to my line. This law will write off the debt to Mark because he was blocked in 31.12.2017. However, Anti, whose account was blocked in 31.12.2017, because he was an executive, means his believer because he failed to charge by this account, suggested a real estate performance. We're not gonna write him off. So we are discriminating Croatian citizens, and the basis for this discrimination is the sole purpose of the credentials, therefore, the executive, chosen by the subject and the means of execution. If I'm the one who's been executed on the move, I won't have a debt written off. If it's against me, I'll get this 10 grand. Mr. Minister, it's unfair, it's discriminatory. I will support this law, because we believe that any measure that goes in favour of the citizens is a measure that needs to be supported. But bear in mind that you've done a great injustice here, the question is how will the Constitutional Court be set up to do this. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90445	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're now going to amendment number two of the HSS Representatives Clubs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90446	So I also explained in the very explanation why the Government cannot accept this amendment, so I will remind that the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme said there would be a write-off for Croatian citizens to an average net salary of around 6,000 kuna at this point. The government with this proposal before the Croatian Parliament came with a proposal to write down 10 000 kunas, therefore significantly more than what was originally announced and envisaged, and that is, of course, what we said, for the believers of Group 1. I noted in the debate, so it's 153 864 citizens who will be reduced by these 10,000 kunas, of them 6672 will, on Monday after this law enters into force, we said that we would throw it into effect or after 8 days of publication on Saturday, so that this entire system would be reversed, 6672 citizens would be completely unblocked, their debt solely on the basis of Group 1 creditors. However, you know that in the bill, we have put an incentive incentive measure in place for Group 2 creditors, where we have not put any restrictions on their will, desire and possibility in the end to write down and increase the amount of 10,000 and to add up to each other. However, as a central state or government, we are prepared to offer this stimulating measure that will be recognised up to a maximum of 10 000 kuna tax-recognized expenditures, that still have one additional reason, or not just our public appeal and all of what we said during the debate and today that we also follow the example of Group 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90447	Appreciation on behalf of the club of representatives, dear colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90448	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, we are not satisfied with the explanation because we believe that the amount of 10 000 kunas to which the claims are written down from the group of creditors 1 to our fellow citizens, too small, with only 6672 are our fellow citizens who will be unblocked. We believe that this amount could have been, as we have suggested and 20 000 kunas, so that would be not only 2%, but 20% of our fellow citizens who would immediately unblock the account, and especially since a large part of these claims from the group of creditors 1 are not only tax debts but also claims from HRT, but what bothers us and our fellow citizens is that there are the largest part of the costs of public notebooks, lawyers and others involved in this process and part of these claims should have gone into obsolescence. Let's take one step, help a number of our fellow citizens, propose that this amount be increased from 10 to 20,000 kuna, and please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90449	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Now we are going to vote on the final draft of the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, please vote. I find that most votes, 107 for, 6 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90581	I would now suggest we unify the next two laws if you agree. These are: - Final proposal of the Law on Payments, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 289; - Final proposal of the Electronic Money Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 288; Is anyone opposed to bringing it together? No, I don't. Then we can, so I can unite it. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90582	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Payments, as well as the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Money, which is the result of compliance with the Payment Services Directive on the Internal Market, that is Directive 2015/2366 and one and the other legislation is proposed in the package, given that the directive is allocated to these two designated laws in terms of legal provisions. At the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 16 February, this year, the conclusion was reached on the adoption of the bill and on payment and electronic money and would only briefly repeat some details, if you please. As far as the new payment services directive is concerned, it has been adopted for several reasons. In particular, more significant technical innovations on small market payments, rapid growth in the number of electronic and mobile payments, the emergence of new types of payment services on the market and the need to increase the security of electronic payments. The new rules encourage competition, and this will enable consumers to benefit from more resources between different types of payment services and service providers. The new provider will have to follow the same rules as before had financial institutions in terms of registration, licensing, supervision of competent authorities, and new legal requirements for payment security will be applied to them. As for the Law on Payments, the most important news that was, so I'll just count it for a little while. Two new payment services, account information services, payment initiation services, the possibility of setting up a small payment institution, that is an institution that does not exceed the annual amount of 7.5 million kuna, increased payment security, additional supervision of services that have been excluded from the application of the Law is now being introduced, for example for gift cards, etc. Furthermore, rules of conduct on the protection of payment service users have been improved. As regards the main differences prescribed by the Final Proposal of the Law in relation to the proposal itself, the proposals of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament have been incorporated on the proposal of the Law, as well as the adopted proposals of the competent authorities on the final proposal of the Law, and certain amendments have been made for the sake of better clarity of the norm, provisions on supervision for better cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia have been made, and a provision has been added, according to which the cash received from the payment service user deposited on the account of the credit institution does not enter the assets or acquired liquidating masses of that credit institution and for their protection in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of credit institutions. This used to be understood before, it is now explicit and stated in the Law itself. In addition to the application of the Commercial Society Act, it is possible to apply another specific regulation which provides for a regulated way of establishing legal persons, in order to enable other legal persons established to be entered in the register by another legal person and to comply with the other requirements of this Act to obtain authorisation for the provision of an appropriate payment service, for example, we have the Financial Agency Act as an example. Finally, the completion of compliance with the text of the directive was carried out. There have also been minor changes based on the revision of the directive itself this April, and a specific regulatory technical standard on authentication and communication has been adopted in the meantime. It's about the Law of Payments itself. As regards the Law on Electronic Money, just to remind you, electronic money is a stored monetary value that has been issued after receiving money for the purpose of carrying out payment transactions and which accepts a natural or legal person who is not an issuer of that electronic money, which makes a monetary claim to the issuer. In practice in the Republic itself, electronic money is not very widespread, we have to admit it. For example, in our case, a prepaid payment card was paid, so-called. prepaid cards and payment via pre-purchases e.g. through text messages and the like. The main issuer of electronic money in the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States are essentially credit institutions and electronic money institutions, and currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 5 electronic money institutions. These are two card houses and three mobile operators who received an authorisation to issue electronic money from the CNB in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Act. The most important news, just to remind you, means I'll just count it for a little while. License requirements have been tightened, the CNB has greater powers of supervision. For the time being, it is also possible to request reports from institutions which do not have a head office in the Republic of Croatia, but which operate in the Republic of Croatia on the way of their offices or branches. They're more detailed, so-called. small electronic money institutions, more protection of electronic money users has been introduced. There is also news of a monetary value that is not to be considered electronic money. The main differences prescribed by the Final Proposal of the Law in relation to the proposal of the Law, as well as the previous legislative provision, were incorporated the proposals of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the adopted proposals by the competent authorities on the final text of the law, a better division of supervisory authorities within the meaning of the CNB and the financial inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance was made. In this respect, the CNB will oversee licensed electronic money issuers from Article. 5. The law. Issuers therefore, with appropriate authorisation and branches and distributors, electronic money institutions established in other Member States operating in the Republic of Croatia using the right to establishment and their representatives who are also payment service providers. While the financial inspectorate will be supervised by representatives of electronic money institutions established in other Member States operating in the Republic of Croatia using the right to establishment when their representatives are not also payment service providers. A provision has also been added, as in the previous Act, in terms of financial assets which are deposited with financial institutions, that they cannot be executed and also in the sense of the Commercial Society Act, so that other companies under other laws can be registered in terms of operations under this Act, as I have set out in the example of the Financial Agency Act. Finally, one law and the other makes further improvements in the business of electronic money institutions and the same in terms of doing business as in the Member States of the European Economic Area. We believe that all these provisions introduced into the legal provisions will be sufficient in terms of improving the security of the provision of services based on these legal provisions. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90583	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with the Ministry's associates. I think it's a good thing that we've united these two points today, since these two laws are primarily passed to comply with payment service directives, so one and the other laws have a obligation to comply. Why did this happen, this directive primarily because of the numerous technological innovations that we see today and because of the new let's say, the company, the services on the market that are happening, the championship due to the payment market, means the growing number of rapid growth of electronic and mobile payments, new types of payment services on the market, and certainly what's most important to us as citizens, to increase security, the security of these payments, and therefore all the institutions that are actually engaged, which are legally defined to carry out payment transactions and especially this part of the conduct of electronic money, I think that they will have to invest significant resources and need to invest in the protection, see also lately and personal data and protect all and transactions, especially when transactions are carried out on the single EU market, because there is no longer a problem when they buy and some goods on the internal market of a single country, however, when you buy these same goods within the European market where over 500 million people are and where there are actually established that there are a safe market environment, and that there are a secure environment, and that there are secure access to the security of the security of the infrastructure, so that there for the infrastructures that there are well, the infrastructures that the infrastructures, the infrastructures and the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures, why. This means that consumers will be able to make an online purchase even if they do not own a credit card and the trader will be able to start delivering the goods as soon as the payment initiation service provider has been confirmed that payment is initiated. At no stage of the payment chain, the service provider will not be in possession of money from payment service users, and this part of the licensing will certainly continue to be carried out by the CNB. What is also interesting is that this directive introduces itself and we talked earlier about citizens' debts, the problems in which our citizens are and that here we have tried to obtain some kind of debt structure, and you have seen that there are more direct, that there are telecommunications services, HRT tax, banks etc., so that this law also allows for the provision of account information services and what it means to enable account information services to be provided to consumers and business entities globally view their financial situation, in fact to enable consumers to consolidate different payment accounts that they have in one or more banks and categorize consumption by species, whether you have credit, whether these costs for food, for directs, for gasoline or some other forms of costs, which helps them to monitor costs and financial planning, and in fact enables me to say one more, this part of electronic money is made possible and to accelerate this work in trade. This other law, as we have said, is one component of these directives, the use of electronic money that we ourselves are aware of today is not yet so developed such a form of payment, and here it would be good not to rush that Bitcoin and this electronic money because Bitcoin is quite something else so that it would not be discussed again whether the government should or should not because look, we have seen that by investing it can, I am back a little bit, but it is actually part of one financial literacy and investment that would not be again for any year that it should be... Citizens who are now one big money and we know that interest rates are 0 to 1% invested in Bitcoin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now, in order not to find yourself again blocked, again certain problems, we see how the value of these currencies, i.e. imaginary currencies is growing in the sky and overnight, you think you can make that money very quickly and then you find yourself in a number of problems and when the interest rate market is low and when there is actually little investment, we see that today and in bonds that bring more money of 2, 3%, investment in the stocks that is risky and now there is a certain bitcoin so that tomorrow we don't call out why the government didn't act or invest in such a form of currency, so that if someone didn't connect with this electronic money because it's not exactly the same, it's totally all different categories and that it's certainly also a warning from this speaker that such a form of investment is very risky, that they can burden the property of a citizen and that all those who invest here today is also the minister of something about it is talking, that there's going to be a great number of risk in the future in the future, in the future of the future of the capital that they will be in the future of the capital. And it is important and difficult for you to help anyone with this law, it is a single market, and then you invest, and when the problem arises again, the question of where certain institutions have failed or the question arises is whether they could act at all because here these laws and the EU are trying to catch up with these directives, expand that structure, that volume of all these transactions and it is difficult to succeed, and they and the definitions of electronic money themselves and those that appear on the market but the market is always faster, so that no government can act so preventively, is always the market where entrepreneurs are developing certain services faster, and they are developing more rapidly certain initiations of certain services, the administration is always trying to bring them into a certain order, so in these Directives. So the SDP club doesn't see, there's no objection to these two laws and they'll certainly support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90585	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90586	Dear Vice President, the government's respected representatives with a co-worker, an associate. So here is the final proposal of the Law on Payments and the Final Proposal of the Law on Electronic Money, this is the second reading, so there have been no significant changes compared to previous reading, but in any case the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support all these changes and laws as they are now proposed. As stated by the Law on Payments is, as is the next law, actually in compliance with Directive 2015/2366. The news introduced by this law in relation to the existing arrangement is two new payment services, which are payment and account information services initiating services. What is more important is to say that strict payment security requirements are very important for all of us as citizens, such as legal persons. This makes communication safer and more reliable customer authentication. It is important to note that a small payment institution is being introduced which will be able to provide services only in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The rules on consumer protection as a payment service user have also been improved, and rules that include reduced payer liability for unauthorized payment transactions are also improved. It is also reduced by a period within which the payment service user can cancel without compensation the framework contract from 12 to 6 months and a deadline has been introduced to respond to the consumer's complaint which is now 10 days, i.e. extremely 35 days. The final proposal of the Law on Payments therefore consists in the completion of the supervisory provisions and, for the purpose of implementing better cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the provision under which the cash received by the payment service user is deposited on the account of the credit institution does not enter the assets, i.e. bankruptcy or liquidational mass and credit institutions for their protection in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of that credit institution. Therefore, further compliance with the Directive was carried out in this way, which was subsequently amended in April 2018. In electronic money, what has already been mentioned several times, therefore the development of electronic money is driven by the global spread of the Internet and the desire to make transactions more efficient and cheaper through electronic payment. What should be said is that the first law in our country was passed in 2010 and he is in effect all this time. What is to be said is that in EU practice, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, electronic money is not very widespread, so it represents a small share in total payments. We currently have 5 institutions that use and are registered for electronic money, which is, that is, two card houses and 3 mobile operators who have the approval to issue it to the CNB. The innovations introduced by this law in relation to the existing arrangements are subject to strict conditions for the issue of authorisation, for the issue of electronic money. This gives greater authority to the supervisory authority, which is the CNB in the cross-border issue of electronic money. Consumer protection rules as a user of electronic money have been improved and safety levels have been increased as important for both law and law. The main differences prescribed by the Final Proposal of the Law are that the division of supervisory authorities' competences between the CNB and the Financial Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance, where the Inspectorate will oversee the representatives of electronic money institutions established in other Member States operating in the Republic of Croatia using the right to a business event where their representatives are not also payment service providers. Consequently, the CNB will oversee licensed electronic money issuers, branches and distributors, electronic money institutions established in other Member States and operating in the Republic of Croatia using the right to commercial establishment and their representatives. It is also added to the provision under which money received from electronic money holders in exchange for electronic money issued and money received from payment service users other than the issue of electronic money deposited on the account of a credit institution does not enter the assets or bankruptcy or liquidation. So that's where the law overlaps. This is followed by, once again, the HDZ Club supports these amendments to the law, i.e. the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Money and the Law on Payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90587	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on both laws, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90588	Final proposal of the Law on Payments, second reading of P.Z. No. 289, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Payments. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 110 for, 1 abstention and 1 vote against the Law on Payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90597	Now we would move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Capital Market Act Second reading, P.Z.E. number 321. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90598	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Today we have a final proposal for the Capital Market Act. The law is designed to further bring Croatia's legal framework into line with EU rules in this area. At the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 27 April this year, a conclusion was reached adopting the proposal of the Capital Market Act. Just to remind, in this new law, in fact, 738 articles are transposed into Croatian legislation as many as 15 directives and allows... 9 EU Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the most important reason for making the Law is the new so-called MiFID II Directive or a directive on markets in financial instruments that bring numerous innovations for all participants in the capital market. It is all offered by the 2018 crisis when weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial markets were detected. Therefore, in 2014 the European Parliament and the EU Council adopted the so-called The MiFID II Directive and the corresponding regulation, and the new rules aim to make financial markets more efficient, more resistant to so-called. stress and more transparent or increase investor confidence, reduce market disturbance risk, reduce systemic risk, increase financial market efficiency and reduce unnecessary costs for participants. As regards the deadlines, the new Directive has been in force since 31 January 2007, and is to be implemented since 2 January 2018. The key news that brings, as you've had the opportunity to hear in the first reading, I'll just count here. The scope of regulatory trading platforms and instruments is increasing, trade transparency is increasing, data delivery efficiency is increasing, trading costs are being reduced, a single alpha numerical code of 20 digits is being introduced for participants in the capital market. Algorithm trade is regulated. The application of the market abuse regulation is ensured in such a way as to define HANFA as a competent authority and its powers and supervisory measures. In addition, new developments are introduced in the part of investor protection in terms of changes in investment counselling, improved product management, further incentives are regulated, an independent adviser is defined, and other changes introduce control of issuers whose securities are included in the regulated market within the meaning of the HANFA which will become a supervisory body for financial information of the issuers, a framework for the resolution of the central depository established in the Republic of Croatia has been laid down, and in terms of the difference between the first reading and this Final Proposal of the Capital Market Act has been developed in relation to the observations of the Croatian Parliament Legislator's Committee and in terms of improving and supplementing certain provisions of the Law itself, such as the provisions in terms of compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Regulation. ... A regulation which determines which provisions have already been introduced in the draft Act amending the Insurance Act which is a teaching point in relation to this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The transitional and final provisions of this Act have been developed, and provisions have also been developed in such a way as to establish a way of operating the stock exchange which, on the date of entry into force of the Act, performs management tasks in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Capital Market Act, provisions have been developed in the sense that part of the provision which has been prescribed for the termination of certain provisions, given that that moment in terms of proceedings at this time is uncertain. And nomotechnical addition of the entire text of the law, the names of articles have been added to those articles that were also missing and can be said, that the new Capital Market Act brings a number of innovations and improvements in the functioning of transparency and financial markets, and with regard to the participants of our capital market, it sets out certain technical and organisational requirements primarily regarding the promotion of IT support, transparency of transactions related to different financial instruments, the quality of trading systems, and the education of sales staff related to the improvement of customer products. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90599	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90600	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters. We have before us a Law on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself sets out an assessment of the situation and in fact what will come out of it, and this is the 7th iteration of the same and mostly harmonisation with the acquis all in order to create key preconditions for the integration of the financial market into the single market of EU Member States and to comply with the directive. It is a visible intention to secure, continue investor confidence in the capital market. Also, changing the rules for financial markets wants to protect investors through more frequent customer reporting, presentation of all the costs involved, investment, ensuring the most favourable enforcement for clients, records, communications, as well as keeping business documentation. And what is also important because of the new stricter requirements related to telephone, electronic communications, and everything under the new Data Protection Regulation remains what we will monitor and see if the entities from the capital market will start rerouting clients to their e-commerce systems. What should also be mentioned is that the directive also prescribes the organisational responsibilities of administrations and management bodies and investment firms, as well as that third country investment entities in Croatia's capital markets and also the EU must establish a branch. In particular, the rights and obligations of participants in the capital market in the area of the prohibition of trade on the basis of privileged information, the illegal publication of privileged information and market manipulation are regulated. It should also be added that higher reporting obligations are required for the European Securities Supervisory Authority and that measures and sanctions that can be taken against legal and physical participants have been tightened. The law also provides for the introduction of a trading platform, for the growing market of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, through which they could easily raise capital for development as well. From this it is all evident that the directive, then will have a significant impact on business and behaviour and corporate governance and a number of strategic issues raised in front of the entire investment management sector. But of course, with the positive things that we want to achieve, there are certain questions that are being asked, there is the Minister and his team, which is primarily the question of how much it will cost, how much investment companies will cost. We had an announcement that according to this new regulation, European investment companies should bear around 2.5 billion euros in costs. However, recently Germany's central bank warned that only their banks had singled out more than a billion euros to adapt to the new directive. Of course it's talking about the market that's been developed, but then we come to us where we're marketing in crops, where new queries are being set up again, new enquiries about it, why we weren't ready for implementation but at the beginning of this year. What's complicated is all investment bankers, which is that we had little investment Texas in terms of control, in terms of liability for failures. So now we're back in a position where we could have one reregulated market. And the directive itself, which is implemented here, is well-structured, but it exists and it is justified that because of the reregulation of the market itself, we can get the opposite effect, from which the legislator expects and which we expect by adopting this. The reason is primarily the Croatian capital market, where there is little quality issue, where there is poor traffic, where there are few investors, if we compare to other EU countries. And there is a legitimate question, whether in these circumstances, as I have stated, with the introduction of new financial commitments, with the strengthening of regulation, whether it will result in progress or what everyone we have talked to is afraid of, that it may have a further stagnation of the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90601	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Boris Lalovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. First immediately commends the Ministry of Finance for such a complex rather large law, which hand to heart when it is taken to read these 739 Art. You must be good experts and know the capital market well, well know not only the Croatian capital market, as the predecessor said, which is shallow, which is narrow, which has several, has not yet developed as we have chosen, considered, but also to know the European capital market. It's not enough just to translate the law from one language into another language, because we just always saw that through some translation of those transactions, that... interpretations can be different and that Croatian practice is actually something different than European practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why here in my opening speech, certainly commendation to the Ministry of Finance, but certainly one to say, concern, to all those who operate on the financial market in the Republic of Croatia, because this is a requirement on European markets, which now the EU has, because of the crisis that took place in 2008, to say bureaucrats, that is, Brussels no longer wants to pay the debts it generates and through certain financial balloons, through certain, what is said here, so-called. ... markets, i.e. internal and unregulated brokerage platforms, which we know when the crisis started in 2008 that they primarily referred to US financial markets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if this strict regulation is possible, everyone in the future will have an impact on the image of the capital market. And here's my colleague Panenic, and I thank him for really saying one significant number when Germany's central bank says it's going to cost billions of euros, so I believe they're also worried because it's not a small amount of money, no matter how much we think there's money in Europe, we've read in recent times what happened to Deute Bank, how they're going through a difficult process of restructuring and certainly not small money for them. However, what is there is, we are on the single European market and we have to accept such game rules, therefore perhaps my question, if they have colleagues in the talks with the Zagreb Stock Exchange and these investment companies, whether they have assessed some additional costs for them, whether this will mean significant financial, in this context I believe that you have some communication channels for them, so perhaps only in that part that what has already been asked by counterpart Panenic is this question, just to get some kind of framework, although it has no impact on the budget, has an impact on the market. And since this law is so wide and the areas it determines are also approval for the work and business of investment firms and other persons authorised to provide investment services, then authorisation for the work and business of the market operator and the regulated market, then re-regulated the authorisation for the work and business of the data provider, the conditions for the supply of securities, the public and the authorisation of securities on the regulated market, and the obligation to inform issuers whose securities are placed on the regulated market and the prohibition of the use of marketable financial instruments and the settlement and intent of business with financial instruments. This is an additional possible capacity, the HRFA personnel capacity will certainly be given this new alignment with this MiFID II directive and a regulation replacing the original MiFID and the directive that they have said that here over 10 directives and 8 regulations are extremely complex matter, which certainly means for them that they will have to respond and humanely because when you have a hand on the heart, when you have such a shallow market, when you have so little transaction, this is about including and issuing certain public offerings, we see that there has been no such for a long time, unfortunately all concerned the state. So if the state determines some form of IPO, then somehow it does because most of these large companies were owned by the state, however, those real privates who went out to the capital markets and asked for money to finance their projects is a little bit, that in the last decade we can count them on the fingers of one hand how many such projects were and in this sense the capital market in the Republic did not live by being small, and what we actually have very little experience and on the other hand very few people who know the trade techniques themselves. What is certainly important and most of it applies because this is a directive that covers a very wide area is that this market infrastructure is to be united and that a large part of the trade that has so far been on the financial market that took place outside of the trading venue, which was defined by MiFID I so far. ... markets or on internal and unregulated brokerage platforms, that are now integrated and that the restrictions were exclusively on the trading of shares of their derivatives, which prevented the efficiency of the price formation process for a large part of other financial instruments, and this bill ensures that investment firms that manage the internal multilateral trading system and similar share instruments must be registered as an authorised multilateral trading platform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as we have said, it will certainly affect this, but it should not be more significant since, unfortunately, this kind of business has not been so significant in our financial markets so far. So the SDP club is because it is a directive which I say is both complicated and comprehensive and I believe that it is a colleague from the ministry together with the HANFA and with the regulator and all those who actually know these markets even more and you have received positive opinions everywhere for this part in this context we will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90603	Thank you. The HDZ representative club also applied for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be represented by representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So that you don't repeat yourself about first reading, but I think there's just a few things to emphasize here. These directives that have been passed have been brought exclusively as a consequence of perhaps some are very funny, to stop you from ending this cycle of laughter. So these directives have been adopted exclusively as a consequence of the observed disadvantages in legislation during the 2008 and 2009 financial and economic crisis. These are simply facts that should be recognised here and if you compare the provisions of the old law with the provisions of the new law, then you will see why it took the EU nearly 5 years to adopt these directives and, in practice, 4 years to implement them with all members. What can be said, which is important for this law, so first of all, here is for the first time the responsibility of the board of investment companies is clearly pointed out. In no law has that explicit been as stated in this law. The second thing, documents or financial reports to inform the public about the functioning of investment companies also get a completely different form, a completely different methodology all with the purpose of transparency and accessibility but all of this can be said exclusively that the result of a technological progress that even allows some new trading models. But colleagues and colleagues, and our closer and further history teaches us something, and I think when we talk about this law, then we need to be aware first. It's easy for us to pass the law here, to make certain provisions, but if those who need to implement this law don't follow that law, and what I think is crucial to this law, and that's the role that HANFA gets as an independent regulator. And that's why I'm saying, good and bad experiences from closer and further history simply needs to be repainted to some of the provisions of this law. Did independent regulators react in time? Did the independent regulator do what he was supposed to do because when you look at this law, the legislator, the Ministry of Finance practically predicted everything, but you can't predict every little thing that happens in real life. But that's why there's an independent regulator who needs to react. That's why the role of HANFA here is very important. And when some colleagues, when we talk about some other laws, are easy to say, they should reduce the fee that goes towards HANFA. You can't develop HANFA if technologically restored, if the people who work in HANFA don't educate, because this is one specific knowledge. And we in Croatia can't list a lot of people who have knowledge of matter and what Lalovac said, just to read this law, let alone apply it. And that's the whole point of the story, because we can rewrite a million and one directive, but if we don't let people, who will control the implementation of those directives, the implementation of those laws, we haven't done anything in principle. And that's why colleagues and colleagues when we're discussing some other laws, just because it's some interesting group of someone who's going to debate in the Parliament, she said, listen, it's good to say that the HANFA's cut compensation, then you should think about what this HANFA needs to do and whether this HANFA is able to do it without investment in technique, without investing in education, I'm saying it's not right now. But then let's not tomorrow, when there's some insubordination, let's not say Hanfa didn't do her job. It's a game, the game of those who participate in the financial market, the capital market in the Republic of Croatia and the game of those who control that their actions on that capital market are in accordance with the law that we have brought to this House of Commons and that's the meaning of the whole story. And if that's how it works then we've done a good thing, but I repeat, for the third time from our closer and further past, if things don't develop that way, then we have what we have. And therefore, in addition to all these provisions, which Europe has prescribed for us, it is my opinion that the provisions of responsibility and the tasks of an independent regulator, i.e. The HANFAs prescribed by this law. The next thing I want to talk about, on the trail of yesterday's law, which is the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. Do we have a developed capital market in Croatia at all, whether this capital market exists in Croatia at all? Here, let someone now give you, 10 or 15 or 20 million kuna whether you are based on the Zagreb Stock Exchange or somewhere else, you know what you're going to invest in to make a good contribution? I'm afraid not. So we're passing the law, for something that might have to happen in the future on the market, it's very funny and some foreign investors should come to the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. And why is that? So if we want to talk about economic development in the Republic of Croatia, we have only 2 spaces, one is to withdraw funds from the EU and implement certain projects, the other is to attract foreign investors, because unfortunately in Croatia there is no capital, there is no capital. And the third thing that is very important to me, and it can appear as, may be a problem in the future, but it also doesn't have to, at this point Croatian citizens get practically no interest for their savings, almost get nothing. When you take inflation and everything, basically if they save in kunas, they get nothing. The financial industry, which is linked to business banks, but lacks money to participate in certain processes, offers some new products, attracts citizens of the Republic of Croatia, raise money from savings and invest in these new products. Among other things, this law, if someone has read it, and looked at some things inside, predicts that protection of citizens, so those who do not have someone inside of them who will inform them all, because investment societies have it. They've got educated people, they've got counselors, they've got everything together. However, if citizens want to invest in something, one who is their broker or through whom they will do so must give complete information, it is very important to me. Because unfortunately, not only in Croatia, but the whole world has shaken the economic financial crisis where many people have lost a great deal of funding, and we are not only regulating how they will behave in the market in the Republic of Croatia, but also regulating how to protect our citizens, who at some point feel, I will no longer be saving, I will not invest in insurance companies, I will simply invest my money in the capital market, because someone such an investment society has offered me, so that it would be convenient for me to invest my money in some kind of project, which has offered some private, even a government investor, and that it will have a higher contribution, but rather a contribution to life insurance or a contribution that is not available at all. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, when you look at the obligation of those who would offer you these securities, through which you would invest, for the first time clearly in the law, their obligation to introduce you to all things both good and bad is defined. And it's one of the good qualities of this law. I repeat, investment companies and those who deal with this business, they have advisers and everything and they'll do it to them. However, this law protects citizens in a certain way, protects private investors because I repeat, the capital market in Croatia is unfortunately so. And if the state won't list one of its private-owned capital markets, you don't have a god-knows-what kind of capital that could attract more significant assets right now. It is unfortunately our reality, it is our truth and again, I must pull the parallel between certain discussions held yesterday in this Assembly about the famous mandatory pension funds, where is their possibility of investing in the Republic of Croatia? Now here is the MOST club and the SDP club and the HDZ club saying the exact same thing, there is no capital market in the Republic of Croatia. We have legally obliged them to invest 60% of their assets in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. If the situation continues this way, it is expected that the interest paid by the Republic of Croatia for new debts or for reprogramming the commitments made will be lower and lower. And if they have obliged someone to invest 60% of their assets in this and at the same time we are logical, as citizens, happy to have the state debt as cheap as possible, to reprogram loans that have a higher interest rate with a lower interest rate, we have automatically put those funds in a position that their contribution cannot be God-knows-what, but not because they may have mismanaged those assets but because we have defined to them what they should invest in. Yesterday there was a sign of a risky investment, one way or another, let's not, deliberately talk about compulsory pension funds, we have a model A, B and C. Model A that is now offered to new employees to get inside, but their ability to invest and the risk of investment is far greater. And when the financial crisis occurs, then you saw what that risk of investment means. So colleagues and colleagues, this law with full congratulations to everyone who participated in his creation. This may be one of the most complex, complex and widest laws and about the area very few people deal with and very few people know anything about. But if we don't have a variety of options, that we don't need some other stuff or tomorrow when the maherers come out, that we don't have a variety of offers like this, that we just need this law, and that's why congratulations to our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance who have prepared and made us all, when we're discussing some other topics, then we simply remember the provisions of this law and the environment in which we live, and also when we talk about young people leaving Croatia, this law is also very tanging this area because if you don't give legal certainty and offer legal certainty to foreign investors who could come in and invest, open up new jobs, then young people won't have a place to work. And I could be my colleagues and colleagues, connecting a number of other laws to this law, so you'll see how realistic the provisions of this law are and how long they're tanging us, maybe not directly but indirectly in various phases of life. But unfortunately, there's been a new fashion in this Parliament that when there's a new point then we're banging on it as it arrives, no matter what life is real and what it creates of us. So one in my opinion is a great law that is likely to suffer some changes at some point, but we must be aware that it primarily protects small investors, protects citizens who do not have that much information because these big ones know where to get information, how to get information, how to get information, but the provisions of this law simply drive those who do business on the capital market, who participate in all of this together that they have to inform potential investors exactly in the right way. After all, their reports, the review of independent auditors of their financial documents, public reporting on the results of these reports, etc., are something that is completely new in Croatia and I sincerely hope that as an independent regulator, we will give full support because they regulate a lot and the next one that comes, the law on ensuring the same law in the jurisdiction of HANFA and not because some interested group has whispered to someone, tomorrow in the Assembly you are discussing about HANFA, you know, it would be convenient to say that their compensation is too high, that they should be cut. But I repeat, without well-educated, educated and technically equipped people, let's not expect them to be able to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, legal persons and then the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90605	Agent Nikola Grmoy, you've brought in a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90606	President-in-Office, violation of Article 238 by counsel Shuker. Namely, he here accuses fellow MPs of bringing up something that has been whispered to them by this or that interested group. We have the right here to warn that HANFA is not doing its job as it should, that it has not done it in the case of Agrokor and we all know it well, and that is our right, and you will not lecture us on what we are going to talk about here in the Croatian Parliament, Representative Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90607	Thank you. Mr. Schuker has addressed his disdainful attitude towards the MPs, but here you are, raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90608	Mr. Petrov You are using your function [[Intruder Petrov: By article?]] Wait a minute, I'll tell you. [[Intruder Petrov: According to the article, you have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and please state by which article.]] He injured his colleague, Grmoja, Article 238 He's got me. [[/Intruder Petrov: Who insulted you?]] And you insulted me. I've brought this up in my debate, but this just says how much you're prepared for democracy and freedom of speech So I put the fact here. [[Intruder Petrov: Good.]] The second thing, when it was the discussion about HANFA, about the HANFA report, then my colleague Grumo, I was the only one talking about the mistakes of HANFA, you weren't talking. And yes, you're not a colleague of the Grmoi. I was the only one here talking about the mistakes of HANFA... But colleague Petrov, just a minute, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Petrov: You're out of time.]] I'm here on my sixth term, and what you've done, no other chairman has allowed. [[Stupid Petrov: Representative Shuker, but you're out of time, don't discuss it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90609	Mr. Shuker, don't discuss it with me. That I'm tolerance enough to say that I won't give you a warning even though I should, no, I won't, it's telling you enough about my tolerance. Turn backwards if you need a recording of how you addressed the MPs and what you said about their knowledge and their right to speak in the assembly. You'll understand why I said you disrespected them. Thank you. Representative Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are now in violation of Article 239. So, if a fellow Shuker has hurt an article. 238, you have to give him a warning and it's not a matter of tolerance or intolerance, it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and if that's exactly what you just said, I'm not going in now is-isn't because it's not my place to judge, but I'm asking you to give your colleague a warning if he did. But don't talk about tolerance or intolerance now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90611	Thank you. We're moving on. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90612	Final proposal of the Capital Market Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 321, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Capital Market Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 110 for, 7 abstentions passed by the Capital Market Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90613	The next item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act First reading, P.Z.E. No. 375. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The law is designed to further bring Croatia's legal framework into line with EU rules in this area. Just to remind, the existing Insurance Act provides for conditions for the establishment, business and termination of the insurance company, resecuritisation companies and mutual insurance companies. Also,... the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of insurance and business representation operations by means of indirect insurance and resecuritisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the conditions under which the insurance company, the company for... from other Member States and third countries may carry out insurance, i.e. reinsurance operations in the Republic of Croatia, and supervision by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Directive 2009/138 of the EC of the European Parliament of 25 November 2009 provides for the establishment and pursuit of the activities of insurance and reinsurance activities of the so-called ‘European Parliament’. Solvency 2 or... which has been adopted, i.e. it has brought significant news on the insurance market whose key objectives are greater insurance protection, setting the insolvency limit, which will represent total exposure to all risks, avoiding the pro-cyclicity of regulatory provisions and anti-ciciping of market changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the light of the above, the said Directive has, meanwhile, been amended in a way that transposes into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the new Directive of the EU 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance which puts out force this Directive 202/92 EC on insurance intervention operations, which has been transposed into force, which I mentioned earlier in the Insurance Act. In fact, the applicable Insurance Act, which I mentioned in the Solvency 2 Directive, has brought more significant news on the insurance market. The key objectives achieved are clearly assessed by the European Parliament and the Council that these provisions should be further regulated. According to data from the Croatian Insurance Office at the end of last year, 20 insurance companies operated in the Republic of Croatia, 5 of which carried out exclusively life insurance activities, 7 companies exclusively non-life insurance activities, while 8 companies performed mixed one and other jobs, i.e. companies that were operating and from before, so that they could not carry out one and other jobs of new companies that were set up. As regards their premiums, the premium charged for 2017 was €9.056 billion and that is an increase of 3 24% compared to 2016. As regards the insurance distribution channels themselves in 2017, they were primarily internal representatives with 35.7 shares in the premium charged, agencies with 21.1%, banks 17.7, employees of the company 16.4, brokers 7.8 and other 1.3% stakes in the premium charged. In this context, the proposal for a Law introduces a new roof concept on insurance distribution in accordance with the wording of the Insurance Distribution Directive, as a novelty, a document containing information on insurance products containing objective information on insurance products in a comprehensible form which must be easy to read and must not be misleading by consumers, all to enable the consumer to make decisions on the purchase of insurance products or the conclusion of insurance contracts. It is important to note that consumer information must be obtained in the pre-contractual phase. The proposal introduces the obligation of professional training and training for at least 15 hours a year for insurance intermediaries, and in this respect the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will delete the person from the register if he fails to fulfil the prescribed obligation. The areas of vocational training and training are now much more detailed and broader than it was in the still valid legislative order. The proposal for a law also lays down additional criteria for the performance of the business of the sale of investment products in insurance because of their complexity. The distribution of this type of product will require special education, and a higher level of understanding, functioning of different markets, and in particular capital markets, while insurance sellers will have to take care of the financial knowledge and experience of consumers, its risk takeover and its general economic opportunities. The proposal also amends and complements the provisions on the applicable Insurance Act, i.e. on Solvency 2 and in order to make it more effective and based on the experience that has come from the practice so far in its application. Finally, this proposal continues to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, European standards, the aim of improving consumer protection, as well as increasing the level of professionalism, expertise and transparency of insurance intermediaries... Insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90615	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Excuse me, there are two replicas. Agent Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm only interested in one thing. We talked about it on the Finance Committee. Is this new law, in fact, the amendments to the Insurance Act, made possible by licking companies to deal with insurance business? So it was some kind of public debate and I want to do it here publicly again. Lising companies are exclusively tied to business banks and it is another instrument of business banks to place their assets and we know well when the Lising Act was passed that practically no one could compete with them because of cheap funds, so even between Croatia the insurance of their licking company could not come anywhere near. And now I'm curious, I just can't accept it personally as a man, that the licking society is allowed to deal with the insurance business because then I just think we're spreading something and I just had to say it because the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce talked about it on the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90617	Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90618	... The proposal was presented but we did not respect it, so I cannot do these jobs. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90619	Agent Nikola Grmoy, reporting for replication, withdrawing. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Then I open the debate, the SDP advocates' club reported for participation in the debate, MP Boris Lalovec, will speak for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Associates, here we are today finishing a set of financial laws, with a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. What is the most important reason for amending and drawing up this bill, amending and supplementing the law, is the transposition of the directive, but the insurance distribution directives into national legislation. The draft law prescribes rules on the establishment and operation of distribution, insurance and resecuritisation operations in the area of the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States. What is really very important to say is that now one unique way to regulate who can actually resell all insurance means distribution, or sales channels. So sales channels, what is actually Mr. Shucker's question, which is a respected secretary of state actually mentioned, means distribution forms, insurance sales, what I was able to write down is somewhere around 35.7% are internal. I understand that this is the insurance house itself, they're selling it, then we have 21.1% are representation agencies, so companies that are represented. What Mr. Shuker said, in fact here are actually banks, already 17.7% they already participate, but not through licking companies, but through their jobs when someone takes a loan and then they have to actually take the insurance of that loan and actually secure the entire job and then actually appear as in that form, those that are distribution channels of insurance sales, and about 7.8% are brokers. So there are actually already all distributors, who are and are operating on the market and the insurance distributor itself includes insurance intermediaries, I saw a very handsome graph that is in the law itself and listed, who can be distributors of that insurance and these are actually secondary insurance intermediaries, insurance intermediaries or insurance companies. So they're basically listed who these distribution channels are. And according to the law, insurance intermediaries can be a insurance agent, insurance repatriator, insurance company, insurance broker, insurance broker, insurance repatriator, insurance company, insurance company, insurance broker, insurance broker, insurance broker, insurance broker, insurance broker, brokerage company, credit institutions, what we said here, they are listed because they are now about 17%, investment companies, and two companies that are actually state-owned, that is HP and FINA. They've been the same so far, they've been so far, they can also participate there's no change. So the resecuritisation distribution can only be carried out by intermediaries... the insurance and reinsurance companies, where resecuritisation intermediaries may be resecuritisation brokers, resecuritisation brokers and resecuritisation brokers, and resecuritisation brokers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, this draft law proposes to amend and improve the specific registers conducted by HANFA, in which data on legal and natural persons who have the right in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to carry out insurance and resecuritisation distribution activities. I don't know if you have the information, but I don't know what it's like now, since we've entered the single European market, it's now liberalized, so it can come from foreign companies, or companies that deal... in insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, as far as I'm concerned, according to this information, there's no 428 on HANFA's pages, but there's not a lot of strangers out there, I think, most of it's angled. do domestic societies. Thus, a single register is now being conducted, under the full supervision of HANFA for the regulation of these insurance distribution operations, and the proposal by law, also provides for specific professional conditions that insurance and reinsurance distributors and workers of the insurance and reinsurance company that carry out such tasks must meet. This was about that particular education and that control. The main objectives of the insurance distribution directive, which is most important in all of this, that all consumers, when different insurance companies approach us and deal with various forms of distribution in that insurance, that consumers must have the same level of protection regardless of the differences between distribution channels, which is that you have very clear and transparent when you compare that you know very clearly what all risks are, or how much it costs and the introduction of a single and standardised document, I think it is good to have, given that one, as you said yourself, has 428 so that a single standardised document on insurance product information can be introduced, so that the consumer can make an informative decision. I think it's important because when you have one such unique form, you have a unique one, then you can actually compare how much something costs, how much something, and I think that there's some kind of decision, and I think it's the existence of this unique standardized document to decide in the finale where you're going to be provided, and here it's talked about and on the market, we see that somewhere around the premium, about 8 to 9 billion kuna, that means that there's a very large amount of money in the game, that's certainly the objectives of the directive to get full information and more consumer protection when the insurance product is offered together with an additional product or service that's not as part of the package or of the same contract when it needs to be informed about whether it's possible to buy different components separately and if it is, it's an adequate description of the components, contracts or packages, as separate evidence of the costs and fees of each individual. I think this is very important, especially when you buy a particular product so when they add another 5, 6 product types to that product and then they say we are even cheaper, we are even better, and I think this way that this is good to do in such a way as to separate it and how much it costs the service itself, and how much else are certain packages of services and in this way the consumer actually gets the right information how much insurance costs. And I think that, certainly, given these additional newspapers that the directive itself adopts and that it goes into consumer protection and therefore the SDP club supports these amendments and additions to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90621	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act which regulates the conditions for the establishment and termination of a resecuritisation company, mutual insurance companies, and is also prescribed by this law as normal and conditions for the establishment and termination of the existence of the same and all companies that carry out activities of representation of insurance and business intermediation, insurance and resecuritisation. Of course everything under the supervision of our agency, Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency HANFA. As regards the very proposal for legislation, amendments and additions and those previously implemented, it is also normal for compliance with European directives, in particular here is the mentioned Solvency Directive 2 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2009 which has been introduced into the very amendments and additions of this law even before, it has changed the conditions of insurance in the Republic of Croatia in particular from 2009 and, in particular, in the segment of the management of possible adverse events. As regards 2016 and this new insurance distribution directive, it is planned to apply from 1 October 2018, in part, these amendments and these amendments are made to that effect. As regards the Republic of Croatia, some statistics, the number of insurance companies following the application of this Directive and the total number of solvency Directives of 2m decreased, while insurance companies, we have here and in the light of the 2016 data, where the total gross premiums charged amounting to €8.8 billion, which is €42 million, and 0.5% higher, respectively, compared to the premium achieved last year. It is important to stress that the overall assets of the insurance and reinsurance companies amounted to HRK 39.8 billion, i.e. to a greater 1.2 billion, i.e. 3.1%. What? We have also in the very explanation and statistics and graph of insurance companies and their business. As for some objectives and this law and this directive, I think they are in the direction of protecting our consumers. The big emphasis is that we need to normally and support greater transparency. It is an important emphasis on the segment that consumers have the same level of protection as we think and think it is particularly important, especially in the sea of insurance companies packages. And it is important to point out that these changes and additions, in particular in the first reading, I believe that there will be minor changes until the second reading itself, but this information document, about the product of insurance that would have been accompanied before the conclusion of the non-life insurance contract itself, means insurance distributors are obliged on the basis of the information they have received from the consumer, to give the consumer objective information on the product. It is a brief and self-resistance document, but which, among other things, must be both accurate and particularly this emphasis on transparency, means not to bring any consumer in the purchase of a particular package into any of the delusions relating to the insurance product. The emphasis is also on greater consumer protection when the insurance product is offered together with additional products or services that are not insurance, which is often happening and often such packages are offered on the market, so it is extremely important and good that it is covered by these amendments and additions. And the introduction of rules of transparency, a rule of business behavior to avoid consumers buying a product that does not meet their own needs. These amendments and additions to the very explanation also mention the recommendations 23 of these related to regulation, supervision of financial institutions which we see in a series of packages of these laws apply. The proposal for these laws also prescribes rules for the establishment and operation of insurance distribution operations in the Republic of Croatia, as well as other EU members. We believe it is important to stress that a new roof concept of insurance distribution is being introduced, which includes the activity of proposing and concluding insurance contracts, consulting on insurance contracts or carrying out other preparatory actions for the conclusion of insurance contracts or the conclusion of such contracts. Related to normal and damages, comparison of prices, products, range of products and all that it contains. In the event of the distribution of insurance, insurance distributors must always act, which is essential, particularly important, fair, fair and professional, in accordance with the best and only interests of their parties and the distribution of insurance can only be carried out by insurance intermediaries and resecuritisation companies where resecuritisation intermediaries can be, and here it is emphasized, means resecuritisation brokers, resecuritisation brokers and brokerage companies. As regards the insurance distribution directive itself, consumers should receive in advance clear information on the status of persons selling insurance products and on the type of compensation they receive. This information should be obtained by the consumer at the pre-contractual stage itself, which is definitely important for the emphasis. The major change in these changes and additions in the organisational sense of the insurance company is the introduction of an obligation to establish business functions for the monitoring and control of insurance distributors and, further, the bill proposes to change and improve the specific registers run by HANFA. As regards HANFE, the registers are not only run by HANFA, but also by the European Supervisory Authority and one segment quite important and as a relatively new concept of insurance products, these are the most complex investment products of insurance. The sellers must definitely take a lot of care about financial insurance when selling themselves on the experience of consumers, the financial literacy of customers themselves and the criteria for selling such products are definitely these changes and additions to more stringent and conditions are prescribed which should be specifically devoted to informing the party of such products. Here in this first reading we should definitely support these quality changes and additions that are exclusively in the emphasis is on the application of the directive itself, but especially on the protection and transparency of the sale of insurance packages, the protection of our consumers and customers who will definitely be more informed and involved in not only the contractual phase and later, but also in the pre-contractual phase, so as to first reading of the HDZ club supports these changes and additions and we will see for the small changes in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90623	Thank you. Representative Ivan Lovrinovic reported on the individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90624	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would also like to welcome the state secretary present with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we sit here and listen to what's being said in this House, sometimes I feel like leaving Parliament and resigning. In good works these are the directives that come from Europe, we simply listen, it must be accepted, etc., etc. But, well, since it's like that, you can say something. I've received a few letters in the past few days because the citizens have seen that this is going to be discussed insurance in the Parliament, they complain about the practice, the difficult practice of paying off certain damages, especially when it comes to car accidents, car damage, and these are sometimes hard times, making trouble to get money. So the law allows everything else how to sell your insurance policy through the bank, through our businesses, we've seen the Leasing Society sell insurance, etc., but it takes a lot more bills to protect citizens as they charge, means that they're refunding that damage, that is, how compensation is paid by certain insurance policies. That's the real question, and today it's not, we haven't heard anything about it, we haven't heard anything about it. Apparently, our citizens still have to make their own way, break the door, search for connections to get to someone from the insurance company to charge them, etc. On the other hand, gentlemen, explore how little insurance companies invest in real estate. You have some insurance companies that in every major city have... buildings, how liquid they are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We remember, I remember, in fact, the biggest damage that was done in the world of insurance in Croatia when Croatia's insurance was sold and that's where Croatia lost more than 3 billion kuna, I repeat over 3 billion kuna, and that's what this Parliament went through, he released it, voted it, etc. I repeat, 3 billion kuna, you know what for 3 billion kuna could have been done in this country? Let each of us calculate what he's interested in, so he'll see what it is. And now to get back to this story and connect it to this and before there was a capital market, etc., we live in a world where financial institutions have become the most dangerous part of the economy. We're witnesses to the so-called. the financing of economies and societies where each financial institution wants to be a financial supermarket, which means it offers all forms and all forms, means all forms of financial mediation. It puts indisputable problems in front of regulators themselves, unresolved problems. As a result of all this, the world is rising more and more dangerous to major financial crises, and we have seen this in 2008, and the next is that the world is swimming on the ocean of debt, debt and all have become slaves of one thought, that outside the realm of real economy, outside of production can earn and live. It's true, and such an economy is called punishment for economics, because you, as you know when you go to the casino and when you determine that you will spend something, you can get something at first, but you end up finding that only casino owner and no one else makes it. So it's a zero-sum game, but it's usually channeled that wealth towards others. Why am I saying this and saying this and taking you to that level? Let's not play anymore and talk about financial markets, and where the insurance market belongs, in the way that the Croats learned by 2007, when they were learning to trade shares, when they acquired an elementary financial technical culture, when they said they had earned this car, the one, overnight, that they had so much money, and then in that day, when the lightning from the clear sky fell they realized not only that they had lost what they thought but also what they had in the good part. So I want to draw attention to the promoters here again that financial institutions are the most dangerous institutions of the modern world, and especially banks, because they have the ability to make money, and therefore, the creation of money, is beyond democratic control, so it is increasingly privatised and therefore needs to be opened up. And when it comes to the insurance market and other institutions, I'm not going to discuss it any further, because there are no representatives of HANFA, we're going to have a question for them, from Agrokor's case and beyond, but I can see that their report doesn't come up on the agenda, I guess there's some problems, but we're going to wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90625	Thank you for the replica, MP Vlaovic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90626	Thank you. ... colleague Lovrinović, I agree with you that the directives should be introduced in legislation, to protect consumers from these financial institutions, especially from insurance houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course our... The consumer, the customer of the policy, must know what he buys, what it contains, and it always gets stuck in that skin when a citizen needs to exercise his right to refund the damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially when it comes to car traffic damage, where a lot of citizens complain, that there is no proper control of insurance houses, assessment of damages and final payments. And it is also a big problem now that we are awaiting the adoption of the Hunting Law, it is agreed that a common policy will be made for all hunting grounds, that the funds will be provided by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. The policy isn't signed yet, the hunting grounds aren't secured, and the damages are done, who's gonna pay the citizens the damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90627	Thank you for the reply to the replica, MP Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90628	Thank you. Just a short time colleague to Vlaovic, so we all know someone who has been struggling to collect some damage means a certain event, depends on what they provide and then has to look around for a connection and thus develops in the Croatian system, that people are looking for connections. And what do some insurance companies do? Well, look, some of us citizens, when we're having a hard time with parliamentary deputies, imagine ordinary people or in the country and those who live off their salaries, he can't fight against insurance companies, who have a whole squad of lawyers, the best lawyers, so there's this missing, so you didn't do this, so they stretch out, so they're reducing the amount they need to pay, they're questioning. Well, it can't work like that. And I really agree and let's finally run that practice, to protect the little man first and foremost, not to protect large financial institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90629	Thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90630	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, first reading P.Z.E. No. 375, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 104 for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90631	The following point is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 371. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90632	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Bank Act, so the final draft of the Emergency Procedure Act and what I want to say, we have today a normative framework for the implementation of consumer bankruptcy, however, this normative framework has not proved to be good, because in all these years, since the law is in force, we haven't really had any significant number of consumer bankruptcys, which would have been open and implemented, and we haven't really had a infrastructure to manage consumer bankruptcy. Now, one of the big problems is actually Commissioners, who we don't have in the system today, and the big problem of course is, without Commissioners, we can't even lead that bankruptcy. This law is actually designed as an accelerated and simple bankruptcy of consumers and it is intended for those who have debts of up to 20000 kn and have been blocked for over 3 years. So these are categories of citizens up to 20,000 kn for more than 3 years of the main debt. In nature it's going to be more, because it means when you add to that interest when you add costs to it, it can be more than 20 thousand kuna. The procedure here is imagined to be that FINA, by official duty, would initiate this procedure. They would inform the citizen in the prescribed form that they are entering the category of those up to 20 thousand kuna and which means they would be in the context of an accelerated bankruptcy procedure. After that, the citizen would have the opportunity to agree or disagree. We've put in the law a conjecture if he doesn't respond agreeing, that we assume he's okay with it. After that, the court makes a decision opening the procedure, and if the citizen still has the opportunity to say that he is not in agreement, then the procedure is suspended. If the citizen agrees, the procedure continues in two ways. If he has assets that are less than 10 thousand kunas, we believe that such property is not enough and that the settlement from that property is not possible and that we will de facto only open and close the procedure. If he has more than 10 thousand kuna, then the commissioner will be appointed. This commissioner will cash in on that property, and from it all those believers who participate in the claim of 20 thousand kuna will be appeased. I must say that there is, therefore, this doubt, and that was our problem with the commissioners we don't have and these amendments to the Law we solve and the Commissioners. We said that Commissioners to these bankruptcys, therefore, consumers can be lawyers who, in the register of the Republic of Croatia, we have a little over 5,000 Croatian bar of attorneys, can be tax advisers, can be bankruptcy managers, so we think we will have one base from which we will be able to appoint a sufficient number of commissioners to do the job. This Law should, of course, be seen in total with these two laws that you have already held today, and this Law, unlike these two laws, enters into force in 1.1.2019. It comes into effect later because we expect effects from these laws. So, someone may owe, for example, 28 thousand kuna, although in that debt, the Republic of Croatia participates with its claims of 10, when those 10 are taken away, it enters us into the programme of this Consumer Banks Act and in this way we will get an even greater number of people that we will be able to cover. Also, not only will the state fire a certain part of its claims, we expect that certain other creditors will also fire some claims, so we will also have a larger base that we need to implement the Consumer Banks Act. It is therefore important that it enters into force in 1.1.2019, and clearly we need to prepare for use in a digital way from 1.1. We therefore expect that according to the FIN's calculations, we will include 120 thousand citizens in this way, and depending on these measures, how many other creditors are firing their claims, possibly a larger number. I expect and suggest you accept and support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90633	Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash, reported the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90634	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, in fact my question went in the direction or I was interested in the assumption that the number of citizens was concerned. But you said that at the end, so about 120,000 citizens, so that's to multiply by 20 thousand kuna, or increased by interest. By amending the law, you go for the reason that the existing one proved to be unacceptable. The same way in Article 8 you have defined who may be the Commissioner. Do you have any idea that now we have two commissioners here, you're spreading a lot. How much would it take to be a commissioner for those 120,000 citizens, or perhaps a little I don't expect you to have a clear calculation, but about how much it should be a commissioner who might be able to do his job properly because of that extra education you've decided to get over a year. Maybe one way to strengthen that extra education, that might be a solution in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90635	Replication response, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90636	Dear MPs, I cannot answer you precisely how many cases there will be, but I already told the lawyer in the register of the Croatian Bar of Law we have 5000. They're very positive about this idea, they don't have to go through any preparations, they're people who have passed judicial exams, and we're going to make a certain brochure that we're going to share with everyone. We also have bankruptcy managers who are, on the lists of commercial courts and they can be tomorrow and I find it difficult here to assess how many of these simple bankruptcys we're just going to open and close, where the Commissioner won't need. But assuming it's 120,000 items, we'll have enough commissioners to carry it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90637	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90638	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, what you're saying is really absurd. So you're saying you have 120,000 cases and there's no one to conduct that personal bankruptcy. Just before, my colleague Sincic said that they only had 2 practically let's say, experts or bankruptcy managers for citizens or advisers, which is simply absurd. So how can you propose a law that you know won't be possible? You're hypothetically saying that there are so many and so many in the ministries, but we know that no one wants to, so far they could be involved, but I just also got some memos from Osijek, from Slavonia, you can't find anyone there. You know, someone would like to apply for a personal bankruptcy, but there's no one to report because people don't want to work, is that because of the low fees, is that because of other problems, what do you want with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90639	Thank you, time, thank you. Replication response, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90640	Dear Representative Lovrinović, I was the one who said in the opening statement that we only have two commissioners, that this is the problem. But this is a whole new form of consumer bankruptcy, simple, accelerated, and here we count with a large number, and here we are counting with automations, and that's why we're going to have a broad base of commissioners here where we don't insist on some kind of training for a year and all that. We have 5,000 lawyers in the Republic of Croatia as I have already said, these are the people who have passed the judicial exams, we will determine that fee. I expect a large number of bankruptcies that will, in principle, be opened and closed. So where there's no property to cash in, and on the other hand, I think we're gonna be able to spend this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90641	Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90642	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Bosnjakovic, here in chapter 2, I quote: However, it is too early to draw conclusions on the reasons why a relatively small number of consumers have launched bankruptcy proceedings over their assets. Here I ask you for your legal opinion, so why is so few debtors decided to go bankrupt under this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90643	Replication response, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90644	Thank you very much for asking, dear colleague Sincic. It's my opinion that the procedure is too complicated. So this simple procedure is really without any confirmations, pure automation, and this procedure regularly involves, in itself, the pre-phase where you have to go to FINA, try to negotiate, speculate, and I think it all makes it more difficult to get certain certificates, and I think it was some of the key reasons why in this part of the process, and in this kind of thing, are such bad results. But for this procedure, I think we're much more precise, clearer and the rules are much, much faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90645	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Then I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club has come forward for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be by representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90646	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will present a brief debate on this bill. The current law was adopted on 10 September 2015 and entered into force on 1 January 2016. One of the measures in the package for assistance to blocked citizens is also an amendment to the laws on consumer bankruptcy. The objectives of the law are to create a framework to reach agreement between creditors and consumers on the restructuring of existing investigations and to create conditions for responsible and economic rational consumer behaviour with the discharge of systems from unsuccessful and multiple enforcement procedures. The measure applies, as the minister has already said, to some 120,000 citizens who have blocked accounts for more than 3 years and whose principal debt amount does not exceed 20 000 kn. The aim of this law is also to address the problem that has arisen in the practice of implementing the consumer bankruptcy process, which is the lack of persons listed on the list of commissioners, as it has already been said because there are only two at the moment. The draft amending and supplementing law on consumer bankruptcy with the Final Bill proposes firstly to classify the simple bankruptcy process of consumers for citizens who are so-called citizens. long-term account blocking i.e. for more than 3 years, for relatively small amounts as soon as possible in the part of insolvency citizens, the speedy and simplified procedure puts together creditors from assets similar to that and free them from the remaining debt. Secondly, facilitate the entry on the list of Commissioners because it allows lawyers, bankruptcy managers, authorised auditors and tax advisers to carry out the tasks of the Commissioner without the need to pass an expert examination but also provides for the possibility to appoint bankruptcy managers instead of commissioners to ensure the implementation of the Consumer Bank Act. The proposed law regulates the simple bankruptcy procedure initiated by FINA under official duty after allowing the consumer to declare whether it is in agreement with it. If the consumer has no assets or has a small amount of property, the simple bankruptcy procedure of the consumer will be opened and concluded at the same time, the Commissioner will not be appointed as well as the period of verification of behaviour and the court shall be freed from the remaining obligations recorded in the register of the payment basis at the time of submission of the proposal for the implementation of the simple bankruptcy procedure of the consumer. In the event that the consumer has a higher value, the simple bankruptcy process called the Commissioner, the sale of consumer assets and the proportions of the trustees. We believe that the law meets the requirements of proportionality as set out in Article 16. The Constitution and that it is a legal interference of the state in the property rights of the address and that there is a legitimate objective for this and for the introduction of a simple process of consumer bankruptcy. The right of consumers to remove the possibility to carry out a consumer bankruptcy procedure against him is still maintained and consumer creditors are protected in such a way that it is still necessary to cash in on the consumer's assets when he has it and when it is not of minor value. We estimate that the proposed law has a legitimate objective, which is to increase social protection and prevent the deepening of the debt crisis and that the measure is at the same time proportionate to the objective. As regards the retroactive action of the law, the proposed law introduces a new form of consumer bankruptcy procedure that will apply to new situations, so it is important that the time of initiation of the procedure rather than the time of the obligation, which is why there is a view that there is no retroactive action of the law. However, even if not, it is undeniable that the law would address legal situations, where the new rule of law applies to relations before its entry into force, but which are not yet completed, so it would be so-called. the unfair or quasi-retorcativeity, which should be allowed because the objective of the measure could not be achieved in another way. The procedure and the implementation of two provisions would be carried out, the first in connection with the regulation of legal abstention, as a bankruptcy obligation, which will apply to the proceedings under way, only in relation to the consumer's receipts after the entry into force of the law, and the second in relation to the property, which the consumer acquires by virtue of the inheritance, which would no longer be used for the non-mutuality of the believer, but only for half of the inherited property, and will apply to the proceedings under way, if the consumer acquires the property through inheritance after the entry into force of the proposed law. And now, in short, to explain the reasons for the urgent procedure, as explained by the applicant, the entry into force of 1.1.2019. The proposed law is part of a package of laws that are adopted by an emergency procedure, with the fact that, unlike the other two proposed laws, it comes into force in 1.1.2019, which is necessary in order to draw the full effect of the proposed measures. In order for the proposed measures to be applied to as many citizens as possible, it is necessary that the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons and the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets enters into force and achieves the planned effects, thus increasing the number of citizens who will meet the conditions for the simple process of consumer bankruptcy which the minister also spoke of. Furthermore, the proposed law should be adopted when two other laws, despite the entry into force at the beginning of next year, because before its adoption in the Croatian Parliament, no preparation for its implementation, which in the case of the proposed law, is required for a period of several months, since it is necessary to draw up applications and connect courts with the FINA, to accept and act in the expectation of more than 100000 cases. And also for the quick education of those who will conduct them. The consequences resulting from the adoption of this law are primarily in the reduction of the number of citizens with blocked accounts and the number of executive procedures, thus facilitating the situation in which they were found, due to the long-term blockade of accounts, by giving them the right to a second chance in line with best European practice. The funds necessary for the implementation of this law of 55 million for the cost of triggering and implementing a simple consumer bankruptcy process will be provided in the context of the total expenditure of the State budget for 2019 and, thereafter, it will be necessary to provide funding of around 7.5 million kuna annually. For all of these reasons, first of all, because we believe that the proposal for this law will solve a part of the problem relating to blocked citizens, the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90647	Mr. Shuker, don't throw it away, stay where you are. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives' club, also reported for participation in the debate, will speak for them by representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90648	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, today we have amendments and additions to the Consumer Bank Act, the Law, as we have already had the opportunity to hear, brought there somewhere in September 2015, the law was unsettled, it was incomplete, we know it ourselves, because, I think, I've listed the 10 rules that were prescribed in it back then. For a long time they have not been passed and have disabled in fact any law enforcement which means it should be as it is imagined. First, let's take the order, so the law on bankruptcy is certainly one of the laws of bankruptcy, in which it certainly belongs as the backbone of the executive law, then the law on the implementation of the law over money funds, a series of regulations, we could even talk about the acquired law, that it is related to it, etc. Not to spread too much. The problems we have in Croatia, with performances and blockades, are well known, and the lack of will to solve them is quite another matter, at least for parties that have been in power so far. So, since that famous or infamous 2011 when the new Executive Law was passed, significantly different from those before that, I think it's the first somewhere in '96. The year began to grow a mountain of debts, a mountain of capitals, a mountain of costs of procedure, a mountain of interest, heavy interest. And from then on, there's no sign of any reduction in that mountain. Despite the fact that the mountain of debt is growing before our eyes day after day, we do not have too many solutions to the problem. Well, here's the last attempt to change these three laws, we had in the morning a law on forgiveness for natural persons, so a whole new law on the implementation of the implementation of money funds, to come to these changes and additions to the Consumer Bank Act. The first law will be about 800 million, it is planned to forgive the FINA automatically, the second law will not solve any debt, simply, just solve the blockade, but not the debt, and of course, the believer can still run a new one. This law, as just says here in chapter two, says FINA, the number of citizens who have been blocked for more than 3 years means that they go under this law and whose principal amount of up to 20,000 kn is these terms and 81 000, the total debt is 653 million + those interest 347 million, exactly 1 billion kuna. So, despite the fact that we're in front of a 43 billion-majority mountain and the cost of the execution and 22 billion-dollar costs due to the tight interest, we're going to do this... Measures to solve 2 billion, if that's the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're more optimistic scenarios. It's skinny for you, Mr Plenkovic. It's thin for you, Minister Bošnjakovic and Maric. Here's a series of problems that I'm about to mention, which these laws don't touch at all, they don't even solve at all, so we can't get rid of these unfortunate intermediaries, the notebooks, the judges, and the FINAs themselves that charge 20 kunas per page, so they have these entire tariffs, the regulations, and I think that's okay, that's all right, the man who's in the blockade, who doesn't have the money, they took everything, and when they block you, you have to go to FINA and you have to investigate yourself, spend time in the ranks, explore, call the bank, you need to solve the question of who blocked you at all, and then to get it on paper, you still have to pay for every paper. And of course there are those infamous demand agencies, i.e. to resell debts that no one regulates, they can do whatever they want in the Republic of Croatia, total non-transparency, and their owners are not from Croatia at all, but some foreign citizens with whom this is executive El Dorado. Here's the foreign investors you've managed to attract. The problem that costs can be 10 times higher than the principal, or 3 times or 5 times or 15 times, was all sorts of examples, mostly more than the principal, the problem is not solved at all. The protection of the only home, i.e. the issue of accommodation, is not resolved. When you changed the law to make it possible for families, or replacement accommodations, let’s see how little you have provided for the family? So here's the minister to my question a representative who answers the following: In accordance with Article 131. The implementing law has received 7 requests for recognition of the right to cash compensation, of which 7 are granted 4th well. That's one right. Another right is the right to provide social services for temporary accommodation, one case. Let's ask ourselves a little bit what laws you're making and how effective they are, and it's not like there aren't any evictions, colleagues and colleagues in the last seven days, the first raid in Pula of disabled people, the second on Cres after that today in Split, the only home of people, difficult social cases. Where are the laws to help them? Let's move on, debt reselling, not a millimeter forward, then the problem of paying out Christmas, regression, severance, jubilee rewards, no progress in solving this segment of executive problem. The problem of not informing about the performance as some kind of fight against non-transparentity, there is no high fee of fina, no sense. The issue of retroactiveness, the execution of some specific means of production that determines the family's working ability, the question of collateral, the entry into the desert debate, the outdated debt when you don't charge for a year, two or three to disappear, no, there's no outdated debt at all, after the executive procedure has already been opened. The problem of falsifying the debtors, it would be resolved by registering the debtors, there is no movement, etc., etc. I don't want to take the whole debate on what you haven't been able to solve with these bill proposals. Cinism is also here where, in an emergency procedure. For a decade these debts are accumulated, daily or at least once on a weekly basis, screaming about how someone loses property, someone loses their salary, I don't know about the kuna, it's an entire library of absurd cases under which Croatian citizens suffer. No, we haven't been in a hurry for 10 years, and now we're in a hurry before summer by emergency procedure to pass a law like this, it's top cynicism by Andrej Plenkovic, but let's, let's go get an emergency procedure to at least help someone, come on. I would like to say that debt slavery is something that is recognized by the international community, which is in international acts, something that is the problem of the 21st century. I would say that one 10% of Croatian citizens have a problem with debt slavery, with debts that will never be settled in this system, here are these revolutionary measures one 2.3 billion out of 65, as well. And debt forgiveness, I'm the first one to forgive those who deserve it, which will help, but let's remember 2015 SDP's debt. Then they boasted it was an export product of Croatia, it would be European practice. But the executive system you created has run over that reform, one few thousand people as I recall it used and well that they did, why wouldn't they? But after that, everything is the same as the old one. I'm afraid it'll happen after these measures of yours because I've explained what they're touching or not touching. One of the biggest problems, which is recognised today by Minister Maric, the performances with us are unlimited, i.e. as you have said here in chapter 2: by the entry into force of the 2012 Executive Act, has ceased to exist the basis by which a procedure could be suspended for the payment of money demand when the execution is carried out on monetary demand by account and even then, even when it is clearly not possible and when it does not make sense. It's a system that you created, a system of debt slavery and you don't intend to cut it and instead of going to challenge this mountain of debts, here's that, someone had 100 kuna bills for water, it's some law firm stuck it to 1,000, no, we're not going to challenge that part. Let's at least say, come on, what's done is done, from now on it won't happen. No, it's all right and keep it that way because it's okay. Now that there's a mountain of debts, now we're going to give you the laws to charge you for it as soon as possible. These unfair and unfair debts. Instead of disputing them, we give laws to which we will charge them as soon as possible. Consumer bankruptcy, yes, that law should have been in the Republic of Croatia a long time ago. It has a whole series of, I would say, serious European countries, legal states, but it must only be used in extreme cases when there is no other way out of debt slavery. We've never had a way out of debt slavery before, except of course to pay, have we? To pay that debt and everything that comes to you, and then you got rid of it. But here it is presented as a solution that is not, as something normal. 100,000 people in bankruptcy. That's the solution, 100,000 people in bankruptcy. Pay those ten-time fees. There's no one like us. And the function of the Consumer Bank Act is at all missed if the idea is to push 100,000 people into bankruptcy. To charge on the property what we couldn't through the bill. Here, a series of law offices here, let's see some data. Hanžeković and partners 49 million incomes, Grgić and partners 36, Leko and partners 22, Majarić and Lui 17 etc., etc. A series of public notebooks, Ježek 9 million incomes, Maroslavac 7, Panjković 7 etc. How many of these law offices and notebooks in what they do have errands? That would be interesting to examine. We know, some of these offices are already notorious for such a performance. No, what they of course gave to that effect, that's their property, you can't write off Hanžekovic what he wanted for his fee. Well, we won't argue with that kind of thing, no. Now we're going to let the bankruptcy know that you're getting paid as soon as possible. There's logic. It's a logic without us seriously setting ourselves up against that mountain of debts. And that's the policy of so-called politics. serious political parties, versus us so-called The populists as you call us, and the same is done with bankruptcy. I'm not gonna waste my time on a pre-fashion deal. I'd like to say a few things about the law. I see you've put an extraordinary commissioner in here. So why wasn't he one of those four categories that could be the contractors of this procedure with I don't know, tax advisors, lawyers, but what we've stated. I also see an attempt to disprove the debt itself in an article. 51st, St. 3. That was a huge problem with the pre-fashion deal. Someone invents a fictitious claim and then to vote that fictitious claim outweighs, a pre-fictional vote and, in fact, forgive yourself for your debt. There's so much to be taken care of here. Only two commissioners are to enforce this law, so far it's registered. Now, as if we're spreading a little story to sign up for the other one. We see that in addition to the judicial inspection which has 6, six figures and the letter of inspectors in Croatia, we have a second bottleneck, and these are the enforcers of the Consumer Bank Act. How can a hundred thousand of these procedures go through the hands of two or God forbid more people, we'll see. Of course, some will be automatically, as we've heard. I'd just like to give the minister a hint, see how many unemployed lawyers are in the city of Zagreb alone, and the Faculty of Law are something where there's always enough quota. We have the inflation of lawyers and economists. Look at how many young unemployed lawyers there are. On the other hand, he's calling us a system in some places for people like that who know something about the right. These aren't some hyper-complex procedure, but there's a simplification. I would also like to ask where is finally the real estate auction system on an electronic model? Real estate is still being sold in some darkened rooms in courts, like it's all public, but you barely get that information. That's what someone often buys through a relationship. We haven't solved that problem yet. This is what Milenić has now announced transparent electronic auctions. From this to this day, there is no great progress. The solution to all these problems I have cited will be a brand-new executive law according to the Slovenian model that the Living Wall will give in the procedure, and we expect the draft to be completed by the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90649	The GLAS and HSU representatives' club also reported for participation in the debate. Anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash, will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90650	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, here we are, in the emergency procedure of amending and supplementing the Consumer Banks Act. When you're an opposition representative, then you can come for this pay phone and you can actually point out what you should, as you should, why you should. However, it is also necessary in some matters to be correct and perhaps to say correct situations and conditions. No one has a magic wand. If someone had a magic wand, there is no minister, there is no prime minister who would have liked a magic wand if it wasn't for the prime minister or if it weren't for a country where the number of blocked numbers were 325254. And I'm sure he'd like to find the best way to reduce it. Because it didn't come from yesterday, it came from over the year. Why did it come to be? By what criteria has someone become blocked? Why did he get into this situation? I'd say, as many as are blocked, there are so many different conditions and different ways. That this is the most ideal solution – it is not, that there is a better solution – surely there is. But let's be correct and let's just say the ministry has made an analysis, assuming that around 120,000 blocked citizens will, thanks to the application of this law, get the conditions for us not to do so in front of the GLAS and HSU, to support this. We as one club support all the options that are good, which are the benefit of citizens so no matter which shifts are and step forward is a good step, standing in place is the worst thing. The same way we live in times, I remember my youth, and when I actually studied and worked in another system, then you watched those American movies and watched people who faced such situations and watched it like when you went to America for the first time, so you feel like you came to the movie, then you watched it, it happens to someone else. It no longer happens to anyone else, it happens in this country and every effort to help our fellow citizens solve their problem is a good effort. Now, the ministry, or authorities, have decided that the limit will be 20 000 kuna, of course increased by interest and be a condition for three years. So let's give this law a chance. I always advocate that the opportunity to an individual law, to see in practice what is really happening and that it is equally fair and fair for six months or a year to say what we thought would happen in practice is not so and we need to improve that, that and that. And that's how it's supposed to work. When you're a parliamentary representative, then you really have that committee to point out, that you should talk one way or another, when you're in executive power, then it's a little different. In the executive power, you have to do something, you have to do it in real life with real people, and you have some responsibilities behind it. So executive power is interesting to one of us, someone less interesting, but it's really a situation in which you apply a certain law. And what's good and what's supposed to be done should work in a way that you always do some projections when you do these kind of changes to the law that you need to be as good as possible and then after six months, you do an analysis and if something isn't done right, it gets better. The relevant law, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, had an option, hence 377 claims were for the bankruptcy of consumers, was resolved 281. In the context of the real situation, there was clearly something wrong with that. The analysis found that what was wrong was among other things, that they were all in the same situation and not all in the same situation and so we had only two Commissioners. That's what you get when you have some good intentions, so you want to make some kind of law, and then you put on weights that you can't move, they're like those pines at sea, you tie yourself up to it, and you don't move, you spin around in circles. I therefore appreciate that the extremely good option is where this portfolio from which it can be Commissioners has increased. Likewise, this education of a year, so we live in a world where, of course, we need to adapt to it, is used by young people, we who have a few years are difficult to adapt to, young people do. This means that they are educated, that they are educated for other knowledge, that they are ready to go to summer schools, that they are ready to go to different courses, that they are ready to do something else. Why would one of the young people who finishes today after one year of a particular school, a course, or an education that will be known under certain conditions not be able to do any other work and expand their diapazon of work? Any law that has provisions, which allows for additional schooling, which allows for additional conditions, which allows you to make your own terms or possibilities, that platform from which you can work extend is welcome. So let's see what we have here. We have on one side citizens who are in a blockade and on the other hand we have believers. And here, of course, we have different situations, so this law gives us the possibility of a simple procedure. These simple procedures are procedures that are always good, are good and significant, you can do something complicated and you can make it simple. It simply gives the possibility of a faster solution. And this law needs to be looked at among other things and in the context of a new opportunity, so the conditions under which someone has come to a debt that has more than 3 years with 20,000 kunas and without solving them, there is someone who forgets it, so someone will solve it very easily. And there are our fellow citizens who probably listen to us today and wait for a law like this, which is why they don't sleep, which makes them feel bad, which is why they're in a situation of some kind of life situation, but everybody needs to have a chance for another attempt. Everyone should have a chance to try it another time. This law gives one of those possibilities. If that were the best possible, there are probably other ways. But at this point, it's read, this methodology, this way, and we're going to support this law for the simple reason that we should give, if this law is going to be resolved, not 120,000, but twice as much, 60 grand for our fellow citizens no longer to be blocked, we've done something. That's how it's supposed to look. You know if you put it on, it's a custom, I don't know if in other countries when I talk to my colleagues then of course every history wears its own way of thinking, the worst of your life when you put too high a goal, then put too high a goal or too far away, you know that you can't achieve it and immediately give up. It seems to me that this is one real goal. I think we could do this, I'm always saying my own example and I'm saying, you can put me in a room with a mat and a ladder to jump up and after three years of coming, I'm going to jump an inch more than it was at first, but some other stuff I'm going to do. So this law seems to me to have given some reality frameworks at this point, that what has been decided, so it's three average personal incomes and three years, let's see through 6, i.e. whether this success where 120 000 citizens are expected to be no longer blocked, if that is so, then this law, of course some things should go further, and if not, then somewhere has gone wrong. If we knew at this point what the ideal solution was, then you'd be inside, the minister wouldn't have a worried face, said here I'll come before you sometime and tell you what we did in the ministry. No, but let's try it this way, let's see what happens. There's one thing about blocked, one lot, I'm not going to say, it's hard to talk about bigger, small or medium problems, I think there's something my colleague Sincic said, and I'm also going to mention it, and that's a problem that needs to be tackled, where opposition clubs have put up a proposal and it's a parallel write-off of the principal and interest, actually it's a permanent debt slavery where you pay interest all the time and you never get to the principal. It's another law to define differently, it's the same in the future for sure we should decide and be done. So is what we all point to, and that's when it comes to it, and that's our custom, you know, when it comes to the endangered, then we're very smart. And then there's something we're trying very hard to filter out, and there's all those in the system that are blocked, and there's public notebooks, and there's some others who, of course, see their moment, but that's the way it is since the world and the century. To conclude, I'd like to say the following. We will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, as well, the media will follow it so that we too will know whether it has really obtained its result in a certain way. The result of the cut means that the number of blocked is significantly, significantly smaller than it is today, it will already be the result, but this ministry's efforts are not the end, that part of the effort that should be done and that's what some colleagues who have been going through with the changes of other laws have been crying out from this pay phone and said you don't have to accept ours but put it into your own legislation, come with it because the problems are really big, the problems haven't come from yesterday, the problems have been piling up for years, we have now what we have. Someone else will likely, through some final papers in colleges or doctoral dissertation, indicate why, as it were, what happened, but every effort d to help our fellow citizens, not to be blocked anymore, to give them a chance for a peaceful dream, for a normal life and for a second start is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90651	Thank you. The MOST representative club also reported for participation in the debate, Tomislav Panenic will speak on behalf of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90652	Thank you, well-respected chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Today we have one of the parts of the legislation that the government is proposing, which should solve the problems of over-indebted citizens, citizens who are blocked, citizens who have obligations often greater than property, citizens who owe 40 and a few billion kunas but to go back a year. We had one concert, one company, 57 billion kunas that we all got up for, we were all basically for one thing, which is to save, and what were the messages? The messages were strong, from the government, from the prime minister, from everyone involved, believe me, we're looking for a solution, they're going to charge, they're going to charge all that, they're not going to fail, they're not going to bind to our entire smallest economy, to micro-entrepreneurship, to the least to get hurt. Today we have a minister who has good intentions, he was to us by noon and Minister Zdravko Maric who also, what is actually missing in what kind of message are we going to send? After all these laws, will people believe, will people be the ones who will trust the government of Andrej Plenkovic, this Parliament and all that the real state is behind the activities that it is taking about that someone who is in good interest is not going to consume the laws, and so is this law, that they will not get hurt. Is what we are, if we look at the results of only the current implementation of the Consumer Bank Act, we see that they are not accepted. Fear, fear is our citizens that they will be taken from them too much of what they are not guilty of. I haven't heard the words about disputed claims, how many times have our citizens been led astray, so that's the cost of their error? You have met with this example of visiting various providers of some services that catch our oldest ones, which they do not need, which then charge them, are burdening them with a small pension anyway. We should solve this problem. First, we should be able to send a clear message to people that when the vote and this amendment are passed under this law, it would be the state that guarantees that they will be carried out exactly as they expect, fairly, and that it will be just, firstly, for the debtor, that he may know, know, feel, recognize that the bankruptcy manager who will be proposed to him, that he will have the understanding and that he will find the best measure. If we go back to practice, why isn't there a deal? It is often said here, because banks or other service providers, telecommunication or so, have already sold their claims. As we discuss here, they're already selling, they're already leaving exactly what we met as they are with Agrokor, the vulture organizations. So we're going to have a situation where we're going to defend something through a procedure where there's going to be a new sale of these debts and then there's really a question going on, so couldn't you sell me, maybe someone who could help me with 10, 20 or something, a small amount of total claims? If one telecom or one bank or any such bidder is in the interest of selling their claims for such small amounts and that someone who took it will have an understanding, I think we'll learn, we should learn what is one... why he came and how he wanted to make money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will also meet with companies that will find models when they bought out the debt, to the most extent to collect it. And there is exactly what people expect from this government, which is that the debts that have arisen, to determine whether these debts were created in good faith or created in fraud, to allow for a settlement after that, we see that this instrument of settlement did not work, there was no interest in it. If there is also a measure of consumer bankruptcy that can clearly identify what the procedure is, which will be, which our citizen can expect because he is afraid, citizens are afraid that opening the procedure itself will create a uncertainty in which they and their loved ones can lose what they believe is not justly determined. This is a major challenge, and it is just the beginning of the amendments to the law that it certainly has its positive side, but what the Club of Representatives of Mosta expects also is that the prime minister, as he calls out for a settlement for Agrokor, also says that after Friday, if this is put to the vote Friday after the emergency procedure, that he, his government, all who support it, is behind the bill itself, that people should believe in the same way as in Agrokor small suppliers did not get hurt, that even in this case small people, Croatian citizens will not be the ones who are going to get hurt. It's the key, not only to this bankruptcy bill, but also to all laws. That's where my colleague Nikola Grmoya used to say, something can only be removed from the blockade, but does after that my obligations remain, how will they be realized, what will be the new procedures that will burden me? I hope that after these discussions, we will have, not only today, but also the next days, a clear message from the prime minister which, not only calms the public that laws have been passed, but will guarantee that in law enforcement, the most important Croatian interest will be protected. The biggest Croatian interest is Croatian citizens because if we have to fight for our citizens to stay, to live in the Republic, if they often state that the blockades have made life difficult for them, if they cannot cover their obligations, then the fight for Croatian citizens is the highest priority. There's no one else ahead of that. And the Bridge wants us to have such a policy, a policy in which we can stand behind these statements, behind those documents that are being presented to us here that we are discussing, and that is that we believe that this government will be able to deal with the procedures that will be carried out under this law, this is what you need to convince us here Ministers in your reasonings, and we will also listen to all the other debates and hope that we will bring them together, because this is really a question that runs through more governments where there is no merit, nor one who is guilty can be determined even by the real culprit because there are too many, and it will also not be clearly defined who is responsible for the progress because we all have to give our pain. We expect to have clear messages, to be, if you can convince our representatives, that you will also be able to convince our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90653	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac reported for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90654	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with an associate. It's a long list of things that our governments have brought to us in this House and promised through the media. You remember probably that story from fax to work, you remember the promises of 200,000 jobs, the HNS, the plan 21 Kukuriku coalition that promised 6000 kuna pensions, please, it's interesting to hear. We've got a program that's credible that's going to ban operations, here's exactly what one was today, a couple of days ago they threw a 100% disabled on the street. We have the signatures of the public notaries of Mosto's deputies, we have the famous SDP write-off, which even 4.5 citizens have written off the debt, but very quickly it has returned to them, and now we have the personal bankruptcy of Minister Bosnjakovic, who would, therefore, like to force the movement of feathers to sell out everything they have, at some miserable price, and then to write off their debts, but it is important to note, that if they just happen to earn some money again in the future, then these debts would return, which is the main point of this whole law. That, there's a case of Chakovec di I live, where a man, a court, complained of limitations and proved to you in court that it's obsolete against claims, but that after that the chief, specifically Međimurje's gas, that the court has declared obsolete, doesn't mean that we can't continue to charge the debt. And they now charge the court further, by other methods, of course, no more via the court, no more through the FINA, but they, therefore, still consider the debt and that's the point. So you can't expect someone to expect that if they don't have money right now, they're allowed to get rich in the future, so someone's not going to put those debts on their nose again. But what is most important of all to tell Croatian citizens is that debts in this system are invaluable. It's invaluable. The state is unable to pay its own debts, units of local self-government, are unable to pay. So they're the only thing they're capable of taking credit to close the loan. It is expected that 325 thousand poor Croatian citizens, blocked pensioners, unemployed, etc. will pay 65 billion kuna of debt. They won't, I can't, in any way. So the only thing that is needed to solve this problem permanently is to introduce a system in which debts would be repayable, which is possible only by changing monetary policy, by abolishing the currency clause, by contrasting the CNB, by resolving the issue of the Swiss franc. If you had solved the issue of the Swiss franc, Mr. Bosnjakovic, it would have been a far greater effect than with this law that you have now passed. To resolve the issue of overpaid and illegal interest, a far greater effect. That these teleopers, which are 30% blocked, are simply banned from signing subscriptions with their users, have no subscription. A team before, because they have very high tariffs for very unquality services. So Croatia has the slowest Internet in Europe, and 5 times the price of the Internet than, say, Russia, five times. And then what happens? We've got four teleopers and one naive citizen or whatever greedy, whatever you want uneducated, the stupid one goes to one teleoper, signs a subscription, when he takes his cell phone, goes to another one, goes to the third, goes to the fourth, gets in charge. There's no subscription, don't let them do it. There's someone who pays for the device to carry it, who doesn't pay one bill, his cell phone goes off, and that's it. Not to subscribe and then load up to someone for 24 months. He gets paid for a penalty, doesn't pay one monthly bill, suddenly it's 10, 20, 30 thousand kuna in debt. Normally he can't pay for it. The HRT tax also, cancel that HRT fee, pay directly from the budget, if 180 thousand commissions go due to the HRT for the state is more profitable, that it itself finances HRT than that it completely excludes people from the economy from normal everyday life. These would be measures that would solve the problem of blocked and completed by almost 80%. Also, do not complete receiving less than 3000 kn. So in Italy, if the receipts are less than 2500 euros, only 10% should be completed. With us if someone has a 3 kn receipt, the state will take away 1 kn, because simply, there is no social threshold below which no block is allowed, there is no block. So I repeat, once again Minister, 2500 euros in Italy, below only 10% is possible. It can be completed more, for those who pay higher. It's not possible for us. I know of a disabled man who has a pension of 570 kn and his HRT performs 180 kn every month. These are terrible injustices. It's also a law enforcement agency. How is it possible for someone to pay 1000 kn and then buy a debt for 1000 kn and then ask for the debt to be paid back to him by 20,000? How is that possible? So if banks can sell their debt for 10% of the principals, and they sell it for 10% of the principals, then the first-class right must have a debtor. First he's offered to buy 10% of the capital, offer him. Well, if he doesn't have to or doesn't want to, then sell it to the claims agency. And now watch this scam. For the bank's sale of debt to the claims agency, the banks got a tax relief. Tax relief. So the state paid the banks their claim. They're paid in full. They're completely paid, they're not at any loss. Look at the bank's winning record in 2017-2018. The agency for the payment of claims, whatever the name of that B2, B3 or I don't know what GTX 6 can claim exclusively what it gave. If she's given 1000 kn, let's ask for 1,000 kn plus of course interest. That's what they can ask for, that's fair. And they don't work phantomally, let's take me Mr. Bosnakovic to headquarters B2 capital to get me in, where it's headquarters, who's gonna receive me, they just call phones so you don't know, you're talking to Mato, Muja or Marica, or you don't introduce yourself by name or last name, nor can you ever get a debt on paper, nor can you get an offer to pay off on wars or anything. They just give 10 kunas, give 20 kunas, give 30 kunas, whatever you got, go ahead, go ahead. When will it be over? And no one knows that. When can I see you? Never. Can I get anything on paper? Nothing. And they call, they harass every day. They're annoying citizens. The citizens are panicked. I'm being called "Spanish Retired" today. Here's what I'm gonna say to these pensioners. Block the number of these annoying guys and never give them a single lip. Not one lip. And never vote for HDZ again. Never. Because HDZ, Minister Maric and Minister Bosnakovic and Plenkovic and all others by tax reform in the service of the rich, by strengthening the second pillar instead of turning into voluntary and these cosmetic amendments to the Executive Act, the bankruptcy, however, only persistently prove that representatives of large-scale capital in the Republic of Croatia are working in favour of the narrow clicks of foreign banks and several hundred SDPs and HDZs and their satellites and tycoon of the recent, and against the interests of their own citizens. And they come here in suits and come here with expensive watches in expensive cars, but it's just a washed face of evil intentions. Their policy is the same as the picture of Dorian Grey. It shows a beautiful face, and in the background there are the worst and darkest intentions of this which a Libyan oligarchy wants to spend to destroy this beautiful country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90655	Representative Jelkovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90656	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bunjac, it is clear from your debate that you have not read the bill at all. You're telling your story about the blockeds all the time. This Law is very specific, a simple procedure is being introduced for the bankruptcy of consumers based on an analysis of how many citizens who have blocked accounts for more than 3 years amounting to 20 thousand kuna and are introduced very clearly, transparently how the problem of such citizens will be resolved in a very short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90657	Replication response, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90658	I'm sorry, Representative Jelkovac, for having to disappoint you, but I've read all three laws, and I've read the official statistics myself. Unlike you, I've introduced a new element, which is that I've spoken to the completed and blocked as I've quoted you this morning. What you would have to notice is therefore, official statistics completed and blocked April-May, means this last one we got. Has the number of blockeds increased or decreased? It's getting bigger. Has their debt increased or decreased? It's getting bigger. Who's responsible for that? Executive power. Minister Maric and Minister Bosnjakovic. Well, that's not my fault, is it? We'll see what happens to these measures. Says Minister Maric, we'll change the records. Who's asking for a record? We're asking if the debt has moved or not. It's a key thing. How the citizens will live after this. And I guarantee you that those who have had problems so far will still have the same problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90659	Representative Aleksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90660	Thank you, Vice President. Dear comrade Bunjac, you mentioned the franc. I still have one thing to say. Namely, the SDP government partially solved the problem of the franc for debtors who still had those loans, and 55 thousand of them converted along with the consensus of the entire Croatian Parliament. So this problem was solved for people who had living loans, but it wasn't solved for people who paid off those loans before the conversion and for those people who didn't want to accept the conversion, and that's about 3% maybe those leftovers. And now we're waiting for a ruling from the High Court of Commerce, a new verdict. If it is positive in favour of the debtor, then I already have one law in my head that I will propose, which would systematically solve this problem and which would systematically repay money to all damaged debtors, and that would be one big task of the Justice Department to either accept or reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90661	Thank you. Replication response, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90662	Thank you very much. Representative Aleksic, so as you said yourself, was partially resolved. Again thanks to the SDP government, the pressure of citizens, the work of your Association, etc., but many Swiss citizens have lost their property, some have lost their car, most importantly, some have lost huge amounts of money, and many have had to move out. Here, I personally know people who went to work in Switzerland, so they could simply pay off that loan in Switzerland at their own time. That's where their children were born, that's where they ended up and stayed, and here they are, just needing to correct that injustice. It is necessary to simply say that it was all wrong and that it must never happen again. And it can only be done in a way that the citizens can be compensated. And that the banks will suffer damage, so whoever cuts them. Now it's them, they've got a record, they're full of money. That's the question, Mr. Bosnakovic, or Mr. Alexic, or us or them. And we can see that the government is the only one working.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90663	Thank you. Representative Goran Aleksic reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90664	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and representatives of the ministry. This bankruptcy bill is primarily important because of this simple bankruptcy. That part of the Law is most interesting to us all, of course. And despite the fact that it's a law that really won't solve the problem of the debt blocking system and the debt system, I will still support it in the end. I don't know if my colleagues from the Living Wall will support it. I have no obligation to do exactly as they do. My reason is to support this law and still move out of place. It's not like we're gonna stay in the same place we were. But it's far from what we need. What we need is a new Implementing Law that would be similar to such similar laws in advanced EU countries. We still don't have a draft in public debate, we've been hearing about how the draft will be prepared for a year, but we still don't have it in public debate, so I hope that the draft will soon be in public debate. Why do we still not have the proposal to amend the executive law that I have prepared and for which I received the support of the Living Wall Club and the Power Club and the Most and the HSS Club? These changes would have significantly reduced the problem of blocked citizens within a few years. Well, I'll remind you of what was proposed to those amendments and supplements, which is actually proposed because it hasn't been discussed yet. It is suggested, firstly, that in the event of an executive procedure, no one can charge the debts. In this regard, I must point out that there is not enough deciding to write there what is meant, but it is meant to be the costs of a lawyer before court proceedings, if the legal persons who have great traffic, more than 3 million kunas per year, if such legal persons ask for the help of an attorney to initiate an executive procedure, then such legal persons should also bear the expense of lawyers, or lawyers, because there is no reason for us to allow large legal persons to do a job for them that is not at all a particularly difficult job, for which there is no need to be any particular knowledge, which can be learned by any person who is highly educated, or even a high-school educated, can learn how to run an executive procedure, which is all necessary to do so in this sense so large legal persons should do so alone as we have prescribed by HRT. So we've already prescribed the HRT that it has to carry out the executive procedures, in such a way, they're no longer allowed to charge from the debtors the costs of the lawyers. The second thing, it was proposed that the mains on which the real estate can be launched increase to 50,000 kuna, now it is 20,000 kuna. 20 000 kuna is indeed too small in relation to the value of the property, in order to be possible on the basis of a debt of let's say 20 001 kuna to comply with some real estate, of course there is a regulation, the law stipulates that the court has the right to decide that something is not proportionate, but nevertheless, it should help the court to increase that height. The following thing I was already talking about, we know that banks continue to apply illegal interest margins, so it should accordingly be prescribed that no property which is burdened with a mortgage from a loan in which a variable interest rate is agreed in an illegal manner. It is very simple to prove that the bank has agreed a loan with an illegal way of changing the interest rate. The Bank would simply have to point out when launching the formal procedure that it had agreed a fixed interest margin with the debtor. If she had agreed on a fixed interest margin with the debtor, the evidence is either a contract or an annex of the contract in which it was agreed. It is therefore very simple to prove, it is very simple to attach, with the launch of an executive procedure, one such document, a copy certified by a public notary or contract or an annex of a contract in which it clearly and decidedly states that a variable interest rate is agreed from which it can then be seen that the interest rate is agreed in a regulated manner. It is simply incomprehensible for me to allow someone who illegally charges the price of a loan to be charged illegally by someone to whom the price of a loan is unlawfully charged. It's inadmissible and incomprehensible to me. We cannot compare it with EU countries, because there are simply no such cases in EU countries. there is no such thing even in Slovenia, Slovenia which is, let's say, with us in the same country, in Slovenia there are no such cases of illegal arrangements for interest rates. So they don't have that problem because they don't have that problem with banks. And since we have this problem, then we should solve it in a way that prohibits the performance of real estate that is burdened with mortgages in such loans in which the interest rate is not agreed properly. You rejected the amendments to the Mandatory Relations Act that I have proposed, unfortunately. I proposed that the tightening interest be limited to the height of the principal, I proved that it is possible because the EU court in one of the processes in Slovenia found that such a regulation stipulating that the tightening interest is allowed to be charged only to the height of the principal, the EU court found that this is not contrary to the EU law. Since this is not the opposite of EU law, there is no reason why we should not prescribe it in such a way as to ensure that Slovenia does so. And I finally suggested, also in the Law on Mandatory Relations, that the order of payment of claims be changed in case someone has a debt to charge the principal first, then the cost and only then interest. And I accept the objection I received from the experts that it is necessary to charge the cost first and only then the principal, and I believe that one such provision should be included in the Mandatory Relations Act, thus not prohibiting the payment of interest, however, the interest will continue to be charged but it will be in a reduced amount, will not be fully charged and will not be constantly charged to a principal who is not paid precisely because interest is constantly being charged. Many debtors simply don't get a chance to pay off their principal just because they're constantly paying off just a tight interest. I've talked to such debtors, they don't know what's going on, then when I explain it to them, then it dawns on them, but they're in vain because they're still paying only a tight interest because their receipts are such that they can't reach the capital. If the principal were charged before interest, then gradually the principal would fall and gradually the tight interest would increase in a slower way than it is now. A believer wouldn't lose that tight interest. And finally, there's going to be another law on the agenda that I'm going to propose anyway. And that's the law I'm going to propose after the High Court of Commerce has reached its verdict in the Franak case. I don't know when she'll be brought, I hope she'll be soon. I believe that it is the duty of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is their duty that in the case of systematic violations of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to tens of thousands and even over a hundred thousand people who have been damaged by the illegal work of banks, then it is the responsibility of the authorities to pass a law that will damage all these damaged citizens and on the basis of a judicial verdict. But I'll talk about it a little bit more in the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90665	Representative Sokol has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90666	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Alexic, I've been listening very carefully to your debate and I must say that I was glad that she was very constructive, on the trail of what you're saying, but that's positive. However, what I am particularly pleased is that you have shown one dose of responsibility that although you are in opposition, you have decided to support this law that should lead up to 120,000 of your citizens. I'm glad that, unfortunately, some of the other opposition parties, including your colleagues from the Living Wall Club, do not show this amount of responsibility but on the contrary, use this assembly to unfortunately, the torture of one part of our citizens, earn a few cheap political points, and thus show that they don't really care about the deblockade, up to 120 000 citizens, but rather make a few hits, a few points on TV against HDZ. I'm saying, I'm sorry that their approach is such, unstructured and so aggressive and so destructive, but I'm glad you're still a responsible member of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90667	Time. Replicate response, MP Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90668	Comrade Sokol, the Living Wall has raised the interest of the Croatian public in the work of politicians, accidentally raising an interested public for the work of politicians. The work of the Croatian Parliament was never followed as it is now. They are in their own way which is their way, not my way but their own way interested people in their rights. So I'm not going to talk about how they communicate with you, how they communicate with the public, but in any case they're a positive phenomenon, which is why I'm with them in the club, in the coalition, I hope we'll stay in that coalition until the end. They've raised awareness of their rights and it's absolutely positive and I'm getting into their decisions about what they're going to support not meddling like they don't interfere with mine either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90669	Representative Ivan Lovrinović has applied for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and the distinguished representatives of the Justice Department. We're discussing changes and additions to the bankruptcy law, and I'm going to say this right now. You see what the practice of the current political structure is, it solves small pieces, it solves parts of mosaics, and then brings the entire Assembly and the MPs here into such a situation that you can't tell now, of course, if you're going to write down 5, 10,000 kn, save his and his work help, then man can't say he's going to be against it. But then you have the practice of having HDZ people say all of a sudden, you see an opposition that favors it spiritually, etc., but when this goes through, your operation will all save a billion kuna. And how are you going to solve those 42 billion kunas? That's not what you're talking about. In fact, you're leading us to bankruptcy together. The whole country. You see, you never knew the big steps of the rescue and resolution action to do, but you always just played on the political scene and made the impression that you were doing something. You're saving the economy, more and more people are running out. You're saving a blocked, increasing amount of blockades. Well, something's wrong with that, gentlemen. Well not only that, those who are most invited to evaluate your contribution and your project and program, the plan to solve this problem, are the Association Blocked, they said the same thing I said, that it was superficial, that it was crumbs for them and that you were actually protecting the financial capital of the bank and not them. This is where my predecessors counted what you had to decide not to discuss the bankruptcy law at all. If you had solved the issue of tight interest that was abnormal, for a time it was 30% since '94. And then 20, then 18, then 2008 when the interest rate went to 0 in the EU countries, then the CNB is careful, at 4.5% of the econstrictive rate that is the base for the calculation of tight interest rates, instead of reducing it to 2.25, it rose from 4.5% to 9%, and you all saw it, and from there the heavy billions, we're discussing it today, and you're going to get rid of the crumbs. So you're dealing with the consequences, and you're doing it on a partial basis. I said you wouldn't solve a billion kunas. What about those 42 billion kunas? Poor people weren't. You have no vision, no knowledge. You're completely like a government sub-capacitated, you don't have that management potential. I'm sorry to have to say this, but it's just like that. You've produced this situation, but to be honest, and this other side, and this other side because you've changed in power, so you can figure it out. And worst of all, now you say he's going bankrupt, and you don't have enough, you have two men who would conduct a personal bankruptcy of 120 grand, so that means such citizens. I'm saying, I'm glad if this one man is going to be saved, not to say a thousand temporarily, but you don't have the right measures, you pulled out a weak weapon to solve difficult problems. Solve the tight interest, make a decision that everyone pays their expenses in the executive procedure and right away 80% will write it off, there will be no more. What else do you need to do? Declare a moratorium on the executions and blockades until you have prepared a complete resolution program. And not always something partial, a little bit to solve, so what's it gonna be? I repeat what I said today because not all citizens follow at the same time. Give a legal provision that money from the second pillar, the pension column can be used for those in the blockade, to unblock and to solve their problem. Because if you call it savings, then let them use some of their savings to save themselves today because maybe they won't live to see a 10-15-year pension they're saving for. It's solutions, it's innovation. But you can't do it because, of course, that's not how financial capital expects you to do it and not let you do it, here. Furthermore, we are in the EU today, the concerts are organised, the ceremony, but in the EU there is no concept of blocking accounts, there is no, respected citizens, there is no blocking accounts. It only exists in the Republic of Croatia that you imagine, five years in the EU. But why is it all so expensive? Because the interests of banks, law firms, but first of all the banks, they're in front of the interests of the people. And the Icelandic prime minister when there was a major financial crisis, he said, my people's interests would be ahead of the interests of the banks. You see, in the Republic of Croatia this government must not say. I also suggest that in front of the party we change Croatia to finally establish a department in HBOR, activate the department that will deal with the purchase of debts, not to leave the poor citizens to sell their debts to the banks, and their claims to any agencies that then ruthlessly force them, harass them and the same people to pay off everything. And you see, a little while ago, a fellow Bunyan said one thing very well. If the bank sold its claim at 20% and the agency bought it, it will seek to charge all 100%. How do you, the Justice Department, even allow that? If you charge 20%, then you tolerate to continue to borrow, harass the debtor up to 100% of the bill. Is that fair? Is that justice? Is this the land of justice? It's not. It's not. It's immoral, it's criminal. But look, you have one more thing that's particularly important. I'm sorry there's no director of the IRS here. The banks wrote off those claims, right? Selling write-offs. Why? Because by the total amount of debt claims they sold, they reduced their tax liability. You see, such transactions, they must not be traded afterwards. And here you are listening to me, and I'm sure you won't react. Because it's such a country. But dear citizens, you who follow this, so know that the people who brought us into this situation, they'll never get us out of it, they'll always lead the same policy to give us a little or little discount, solve a part of the problem, but the key things they won't solve. In this regard, therefore, it is not possible to trade the debt recognised by the bank as a tax-recognition cost. So you're letting what's been paid, if the ransom debt was, if it was 100 thousand kuna, this one bought it for 20 grand, now he's trying to charge another 80,000 kuna. Here, it's the state of Croatia, it's just the environment we live in and we can't get out of the crisis, you know. We can't get out of this crisis. That is why it is important to restore society and state, to reconstitute society and state because these institutions do not work in the interests of Croatian peoples and states but simply work to maintain the existing state. They protect that this is simply done. So, respected citizens, you're quite clear what's going on on the scene. You can see that everything is a general collapse, but what's most interesting, most importantly, we have solutions. So there are enough people in the Republic of Croatia who know how to solve problems. But these 200 people who have been in power for 100 years, they cheer and dress, they will never solve these problems for you. In Croatia, difficult problems cannot be solved by such small moves, there is a need for radically strong determination, change, but experienced people and those who have knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90671	Representative Goran Aleksic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90672	Thank you. A colleague of Lovrinović and you and me and everyone is clear that the Republic of Croatia will not move forward until customerism is reduced to certain limits. I was talking about clientism here two years ago. And my Facebook page also writes clientism is a cancer that eats up the Republic of Croatia that says it on my page. And here, just recently they started talking about clientism from HDZ. But clientism is something that lasts from the former system, that's the system, the hand of the menu, the cheek of both. And I don't even know if we have the strength to get rid of this cancer that's metastasized and what's the main role model because we're where we are. I don't know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90673	Replicate response, MP Lovirović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90674	Dear fellow Alexic, we all don't know how many times we've asked this question. If we're gonna be all honest here, does it make sense for something to fight but I'm gonna answer you, so, what I think it has. There's a good saying in Bosnia, a proverb to say, no one's candle has burned by dawn. And that people are wisest and those proverbs are really wise and they're smart things. I'm deeply convinced, but what we need to be is what gives hope. You see, when we showed up, we young parties, new people here in the Parliament, so no one was allowed to talk about this, no one asked that question. Everyone was practically fine. We have raised a number of issues of Croatian society, state and only that is a good sign, day by day, citizens, I am sure they will recognize this way, our city and support us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90675	Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90676	Thank you, Chairman, colleague Lovrinovic, for speaking in your presentation of 43 billion debt, I do not know if you were when the minister said, 43 billion capitals and costs of the process were said from his mouth, but also 22 billion interest on all of that. So we're actually talking about 65 billion total debt, about the mountain of debts that's been accumulated all this time, for a decade and now after a decade, we've been coming here by the minister, or ministers, and they're offering us 3 laws that will solve 2 billion if, God forbid it's even more, that you can never predict the exact budget. It reminds me of Croatian political history. According to some surveys in 30 years, Croatia grew 6%, according to some others 1%, while other countries and new Europe, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, grew 100%, meant doubled GDP and more. And now after decades they come and offer some so-called. Reforming this is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90677	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90678	Dear colleague Sincic, it's obviously taken years to reach some state, although I don't think anyone's real debt and doesn't know, but good. I'm going to use another example, from 2008 to today, it's been 10 years since the state paid its debt, unnecessarily to banks of about 5 billion kn each year more than it was due to too much interest on loans, and I said in 2008 that these interest rates in EU countries fell close to zero. So in 10 years, it's been drawn from citizens and the economy about 50 billion kunas, I repeat about 50 billion kunas. So you're all clear, so with this 50 billion kuna, we could have solved everything. Imagine what can be solved with 5 billion kn each year. Let the citizens themselves consider the money being scattered and you can see in fact who this government protects is certainly not the people, certainly not the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90679	Thank you, Representative Grozdana Peric, for reporting on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90680	Here's a respected colleague, you say, why don't you use the second pillar to pay off the debt. This savings is a purposeful savings, and you know it very well. She's saving for the future, and what would happen if each of those savings asked us to pay off his savings, and so that those who paid off their current debt with that savings that he was supposed to pay him off for a period of time when he was retired, and when he was retired, he spent that money to pay off his debt and in the future he didn't have a pension, so what happens? So, everyone else, they need to service again from the first retirement stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90681	Reply to the replica, MP Lovirović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90682	Dear colleagues of Peric, when famous economist Canes asked why you were talking about the short term, and not in the long run, and that's what you're saying about the pension that is 10, 15 years old, then Canes Rock said, in the long run, they're all dead. So it's all clear to you. This poor man, who now survives, doesn't know if he's going to have a pension, he has to be saved, that's his money, if he's saving, he has to have the right to have that savings he wants. Therefore, since I cannot explain the whole program to you in these 60 seconds, I suggest that your HDZ Club invites our experts, we are ready to help selflessly, to make a proposal on how to resolve this and perhaps change the way you work, not just to reject good suggestions and professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90683	Thank you. For the final word on behalf of the Club, the Living Wall and the Power came forward. The representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90684	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and co-workers of the ministry. I'm going to talk about something I'm going to propose in the future, and it's very important because of the prevention. Prevention may be more important than treatment. What I'm about to talk about is about 20 billion kuna. That's my rough estimate, about 20 billion kuna. I've already described 5 billion kuna, but I didn't say it was 5 billion kuna when I was talking about solving interest margins. The resolution of illegal fixed interest margins over the next 10 years will reduce the total citizens' claims by around 5 billion kuna. So they will pay if one such law is passed around 5 billion kuna less than they will pay if such a law is not passed. If such a law is not passed, the debtors will be able to obtain that money in courts, that is, because these interest rates are illegally charged and will be charged illegally. The problem, however, is that banks know well that people are not inclined to go to courts and that maybe only 5% of citizens will sue banks, and everyone will get a verdict in their favour. And for nothing I tell them, almost every day I tell them, you're sure, sue the bank, you'll get the money. People don't do that anyway. In particular, euro and kuna loans that are not even aware that they have been robbed by banks by an increase in interest rates are not even aware of this. This is the highest awareness of debtors in loans with the Swiss franc currency clause. So 5 billion kunas for the future can be settled by law and must be solved, that's my opinion. But as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, it is one future law that will propose after the High Court of Commerce makes its new ruling in the case of francs. Last year, I suggested that overpaid interest be returned to all debtors, it was rejected, perhaps not bad because it would now be a complete proposal because I hope and believe that the High Commercial Court will rule that banks have negotiated unfair contractual provisions on the currency clause of the Swiss franc. If the court delivers such a verdict, all debtors who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause will be entitled to the right on the basis of a powerful collective court ruling in the case of the franc to sue the bank and to receive all the money they have overpaid plus a tight interest from the day they paid that money. That's certainly 100% if that's the verdict. Why do I say it's safe? Because recently in one audit, the Supreme Court has ruled that there is no statute of limitations in private cases brought before courts on the basis of a collective judicial verdict in the case of francs. So, the Supreme Court has changed its practice that may have lasted 30 years. The practice was such that in the event that the contract is worthless or a contractual provision when it is useless that one who asks for money has the right to seek only 5 years back from pressing charges. And that rule was applied until March of this year. In March this year, on the basis of one revision, the Supreme Court decided that there was a certain space, a certain gap in the law, that the collective protection of consumers was not covered by the interruption of the statute of limitations in the way it was resolved for private processes and the Supreme Court decided that by raising a collective suit in the event of an end-of-life statute of limitations for all private disputes that would later be launched and that the limitation had started to run again since 13 June 2014. We already have 15 fines on which banks have to pay back their money to the debtors. So we also have the power of judicial practice, collective and private judicial practice and a decision on statutes, and now we're just waiting for the final decision of the high court of trade. Based on all these things I've said, I'm going to propose a law that all debtors damaged by the illegal operations of banks are compensated and thus receive for the exchange rate and, unlike the overpaid interest, about 15 billion kuna. So 20 billion kunas lie on the road, just need to pass the laws to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90685	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90686	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on consumer bankruptcy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 371. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HSS Representatives' Club, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA. I now ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, the esteemed Christian Turkalj. Here you go. Let's take it in a row. The first is an amendment or amendments to the Committees on Legislatives, first and second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90687	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. So, amendments to the Legislative Committee Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Art. 49th, 2nd grade is accepted. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Please speak louder in the microphone.]] Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, Art. in paragraph 30, the same shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90688	So you accept both amendments to the Legislative Committee and they become an integral part of the Law. Now we're going to the amendment to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90689	So, just a little bit. Therefore, in relation to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, it is not accepted for reasons which do not comply with the Implementing Law because the conditions for the opening of a single consumer bankruptcy procedure are in line with the rules on the possibility of determining the implementation of the property in order to collect cash demand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90690	Obviously, my colleague Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90691	We are not satisfied with the explanation because the aim of this Law is also to help citizens who have been blocked, especially who have been blocked for more than 3 years. And it's not realistic if they haven't been able to meet their obligations within 3 years and after 3 years and 6 months come into a position that they can pay off their liabilities and so we suggested that this amount be increased from 20 to 40,000 kuna because it's about somewhere more than a man who works for a minimumer in the Republic earns annually. He and his minimal, unfortunately because he is so small in the Republic of Croatia, cannot pay his obligations or be able to pay off the commitments of the previous period. And in this way, it would help a large number of our fellow citizens if this amount increased to 40 thousand kunas to come out of debt slavery, so that they could start paying off their obligations and thus be able to provide their family with the future. We're looking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90692	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90693	Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment because an extraordinary Commissioner, as provided for by the Act on the procedure of the extraordinary management of trade societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. So, it's not an independent profession, that person the government appoints, the court appoints her on the government's proposal to carry out that duty, and she stops doing her job, so that it doesn't actually have such professions as permanent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90694	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90695	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not happy with this explanation. These so-called. The measures for blocked Croatian governments are the highlight of cynicism after our debt has increased for a decade, citizens are in debt slavery, daily occupations, blockades and executions. Going with a proposal like this is the highlight of cynicism. Instead of cutting off this debt-debted beast by a determined state decision, no. You're just grinding her fingernails. In particular, as far as this amendment is concerned, I have suggested that, in addition to bankruptcy managers, lawyers, authorised auditors, tax advisers and our extraordinary commissioners under special law, there may therefore be intermediaries. Why? So who knows anything about insolvency if not them, so why don't Mr. Ramljak and Mr. Perusko do something for the public good in the public sector before the prison sector gets to them. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90696	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act. Please, let's vote. I find that with 78 votes in favour, 34 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90697	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and - Proposal for a Decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 8. Law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. The discussion was conducted by the Economic Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mario Antonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90698	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Decision on discharge and a proposal for a Decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 7th, St. 1. The law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and which is the Law is laid down to DECOM by one president, and the two are vice presidents. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8. The law of the president, deputy president and other members of the State Commission appoints the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government. The decision is published in the National Journal. A Member of the State Commission shall be appointed for a period of 5 years with the possibility of another appointment. The government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose to the Croatian Parliament a discharge of members of the State Commission, to which the mandate expires, the appointment of a new or re-election of members of the state commission. At a meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 20 September 2013, Mr Angelko Rutil was appointed Deputy President of the State Commission, and since the first term of office of Deputy President Decom is due to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to contribute its resolution to the Croatian Parliament and to the appointment of the new, or re-election of that member of the state commission for a new term of 5 years. Mr Angelko Rutil fulfils all the conditions for designation as set out in Article 9 of the Law and no obstacles to its appointment under Article 10 of the Law have been identified and as indicated in the dossier provided for in the Annex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90699	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Representatives' Club The Bridge of Independent Lists reported for participation in the debate and on their behalf will be represented by representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90700	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The topic today is the appointment of a deputy state commission to control public procurement procedures. I would just like to remind, on this occasion, that we are talking about an important role actually played by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Namely, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an important institution based on the European concept as a quasi state body. In addition to the legal protection role, it also fulfils the analytical advisory role that the law provides for. I will explain the challenges facing the state commission in its work, resulting from the available reports for 2015 and 2016. The website of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures can establish that only 2 legal considerations can be published during 2015. First, it refers to the payment of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure and the second to the allocation of the costs of the appeal procedure in the event of partial adoption of the complaint. It is prescribed by law that decisions in which the state commission deviates from legal understanding or... It is necessary to further explain the laws of such a decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the different decisions made in terms of the same content, no solution in 2015 explained the reasons for the deviation from the established practice. More than 40 billion kunas were spent through public procurement procedures in 2015, which is actually one third of the state budget. Legal uncertainty and arbitral decision in this area is inadmissible as it generates potential additional costs for the state budget. In addition, as we are made available through EU funds of more than 85 billion kuna in the coming period, and that all these procedures are likely to go through public procurement. The Decom report shows a fact that partially explains such inequality of practice and challenges the management competence of the current management of Decom. On page 6 of the 2015 report, it is clear that Dekom, the established expert service for monitoring practice and handling in court proceedings and that of the 8 systematiced jobs, none has been completed. In 2016, according to the Decom report, it was changed so that one person was actually employed in the professional service to monitor practices and conduct in court proceedings. It also points to a high risk of inequality of Decom's practice, with accompanying legal uncertainty, which is a logical consequence of the failure to manage human potentials in Decom. The report consists of several points, I will refer to two that are extremely important. The first is not using the possibility of a public debate. Decom has the legal possibility to hold an oral debate in order to clarify the complex factual situation or legal issue at the request of the party or under official duty. The report shows that during 2015 1251 items were received despite complex factual conditions in cases and despite the requests of the parties, Deko did not hold any oral debate. Deko also has the legal authority to invite experts from each legal or other professional area from the 1101 cases of Dekom to the meeting of the council, nor invited experts to any area. In any case, the decommissioned 1251 did not take the opportunity to listen to any of the parties, any witnesses, or engage the witches. In 2016 of the 1285 cases received, 12 oral hearing requests were submitted, no debate was held. And all of this, with an explanation, is to extend the legal protection procedure. The question arises as to how the Commission, without hearing anyone, is experienced enough and experienced enough, and ultimately brave to make decisions on its own on the basis of the documentation submitted, which would not dare to make any judge in the Republic of Croatia without the involvement of more than one third of the state budget. For example, these people are also expert in the decision-making process in the complaint which refers to, for example, the technical characteristics of the voltage-weighted transformer and the rated power of the secondary screw in the context of the acquisition of a medium voltage block for the meeting plant for the biogas power plant. And let's say, of course, further, the dimensions of the proximetal femural nail estimate that the titanium screws are just... or offered dpc tile of limiting contact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this was part of the procurement of implants for the needs of one hospital's surgery, without, of course, the opinion of witches and experts. In 2016, the revenue from the initiation of the appeal procedure amounted to around 21 million kuna paid into the state budget. So there's money that Decom could, if the government provided him with the funds, hire experts to participate in public debates and make the right decisions. Furthermore, one of the roles of Decom is prescribed by law and the submission of indictments. According to the Decom Act, the body responsible for filing the indictments is for infringements prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. They're for example. if it shares the value of the items obtained with the intention of avoiding the application of the law, if... and the implementation of the procurement procedure is not part of at least one authorised representative of the contracting authority holding a valid certificate in the field of public procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it applies a negotiation procedure for public procurement without prior publication of the anti-law. If it concludes a contract on public procurement or a framework agreement with an offeror which had to be excluded from the procurement procedure or whose offer was required to be rejected on the basis of the results of the review and the assessment of the tenders. Where it concludes a contract on public procurement or a framework agreement which does not comply with the conditions laid down in the tendering documentation and the selected tender. During 2015, however, despite numerous violations in that law, DECOM submitted only two indictments, although it adopted 370 complaints. 370 complaints were adopted, two indictments were filed. Also, in 2016 DECOM adopted 413 complaints, i.e. a total of 39.83%, total complaints received, imagine not tabled any indictments. Our contribution by the MOST Club is going towards a more quality course of action in the appeal procedure, the DECOM report shows that the average time from the date of receipt of the case to the decision was reduced from 38 days to 34 days but in certain cases the procedure lasts significantly longer. Often, it deviates from existing practices which bring different solutions to some of the many issues. It is necessary to improve the quality of work and to explain better decisions because this is particularly necessary because DECOM contributes, among other things, to equating the application of public procurement rules and should further explain its views on certain issues he has taken in the appeal proceedings. DECOM should give clearer instructions to the contracting authorities in decisions that invalidate their actions. Namely, these instructions are often unclear, so misread by the contracting authorities results in re-appealing procedures and administrative disputes. The Government should also provide sufficient resources for the functioning of DECOM in order to ensure the uninterrupted involvement of external experts when it comes to complex public procurement procedures and to carry out oral discussions through a more detailed explanation of the mere fact-finding situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90701	The HDZ advocates' club also signed up for participation in the debate, on their behalf will speak representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90702	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the government's proposal to resolve the deputy president of the State Commission for the control of the procurement process, Mr Angelka Rusilier, given that he is running out of mandate from 20 September. However, as the law allows after the end of the 5-year term, it is possible to appoint it once again for another term of office, while at the same time supporting the government's proposal to appoint a deputy president of the State Commission to control the procurement procedure for another term. I think that human resource continuity enables development and expertise and greater efficiency, namely the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure to systematization should have 48 employees, there are only 29 employees, so here is the opportunity to appeal to employ a larger number of employees. The colleague spoke all the time about the report, she had now left the plenary session, said a report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure and I would like to stress this opportunity that it is known that this report was adopted with 91 votes for, only 2 abstentions and 3 against. The party president and now the chairman of his entire club was in, so I didn't understand...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90703	Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, you do not have the ability to semi-limize nor call me... As president, I must introduce you to the rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I'm not calling, but you didn't stop that report.]] I am the current chairman, please address the MPs who are in front of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90704	You should have warned your colleague she wasn't talking about the subject at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90705	I'm warning you I'll give you a warning if you continue to discuss with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90706	The HDZ Club means to support this resolution and appointment both at this time and especially because of the expertise of Mr Angelka Rulje, because we know that because we know that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure, it is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, concessions of the public private partnership, and the latest report we had for 2016 indicates that over 97% of the procedures concerned exactly public procurement and the gentleman also has training and expertise in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90707	Thank you. If that's it, I'll conclude the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30, the first point is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on Space Co-operation for Peaceful Use, Second Reading, Proposal for Law No. 372. Session interrupted at 17.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-03-0.u90708	Let's move on. a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and under (a) Proposal for a Decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. 1.- I am giving the vote of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please, let's vote. I note that with 94 votes for and 2 abstentions, the decision was made in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 2.- I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Vice-President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for and 2 votes against the decision taken in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
