ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88853	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning amending the Law on Renting Apartments aims in a fair way to solve the problem of decades old. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Rental of dwellings of the Republic of Croatia address the problem of many decades old in a fair and sustainable way. This achieves a balance between the opposing interests of the tenants and the tenants and the owners of the apartments, i.e. the tenants, receive the exact day when they can freely dispose of their real estate and since then gradually increase their protected rent by reducing the gap compared to the market rent. The date will take place on 1 September 2023. In addition to 5 years of retaining a protected tenant's status, protected tenants also receive a state subsidy when paying the market rent after the expiry of the existing status for an additional 5 years. It will also have an advantage in buying or renting POS apartments as well as an advantage in subsidised loans and an advantage in applications for accommodation in nursing homes. Was it easy to make decisions regarding this law? Surely it is not because it would not have waited 20 years to remove the shortcomings of Croatian legislation and to fill a legal vacuum. We're going to do this because we want to correct an injustice that's been going on for decades, in some cases over 60 years. Croatia must and Croatia will be a social state and continue to take care of protected tenants but not on the burden of citizens and their private ownership. These amendments to the law will remove the shortcomings of Croatian legislation established by the European Court of Human Rights in the Statileo case against the Republic of Croatia relating to the inadequate level of protected rent, restrictive conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and the absence of a time limit on the relation to the system of protected rental. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning will finally determine the fairer fees and timing in which owners will finally exercise their right to property. It is our intention to ensure a balance between the interests of owners, employers, including their right to profit from their assets and the general interest of the community, including the availability of satisfactory accommodation for people in a worse position and all in accordance with the principles of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The proposed law also fills in the legal gap created after the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1998, which concerns the cancellation of the lease agreement and insurance to the tenant of the second appropriate apartment. Furthermore, in the case of Statileo v Croatia, the European Court of Human Rights analysed in detail the domestic legal rules relating to the former tenants' rights and derived from them the status of protected tenants and on 10 July 2014 reached a verdict in the case which became final on 10 October 2014. The European Court of Human Rights found that the existing legislative framework governing the issue of protected rental of dwellings in the Republic of Croatia did not establish an appropriate balance between the opposing interests of the owners of the apartments in which protected tenants, the interest of the state to ensure the implementation of housing policy, the reform of the housing sector after the fall of the Socialist system. The European Court of Human Rights has concluded that the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the House Rental Act, imposes an excessive individual burden on residents because they are forced to bear most of the social and financial costs of housing of a protected tenant and that Article 1, Protocol 1, in addition to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is injured. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia has been ordered to pay the heir to the complaint of material damage, immaterial damages and costs. In addition, while respecting the fact that the breach of the Convention in this case is caused by the content of domestic legislation which is not in accordance with the Convention, the Republic of Croatia must take concrete legislative measures in the process of executing the judgment against Croatia which will address the problems of continuing the excessive burden imposed on the owners of apartments in which protected tenants live and which will prevent further identical infringements of the Convention in the domestic legal system. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia should ensure a balance between the interests of the employers, including their right to obtain profits from their assets and the general interest of the Community, including the availability of satisfactory accommodation for persons in a more vulnerable position in accordance with the principles of protection of property rights under the Convention. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights has identified 3 main shortcomings in existing legislation and these are inadequate levels of the protected amount of rent in terms of legal financial burdens imposed on the tenants, restrictive conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and the absence of any time limit in relation to the protected rental system. Following the judgment in the case of Statileo, the European Court of Human Rights has today reached the same verdicts in the case of Anzulović-Mirosevic, Bego, Bulic, Doris Knego, Ingrid Knego and Matas. Also, after the judgment mentioned, a number of tenants in which the protected tenants filed charges before the courts of the Republic of Croatia seeking compensation for the material damage suffered as a result of the violation of their right to the peaceful enjoyment of their ownership. For the purpose of finding the best way to fulfil the obligations arising from those judgments of the European Court of Human Rights under the available budget from units of local self-government, the Association of Owners of dwellings in which protected tenants live and the Association of protected tenants have requested data on the number of private-owned dwellings in which protected tenants and other related data live. However, the largest number of units of local self-government and those associations did not provide the requested data. According to official DZS data obtained on 18 April 2018, which were collected on the last official census in 2011 in the Republic of Croatia, 3726 were privately owned in which protected tenants live. Taking into account the fact that according to official data from the DZS collected on the last list in the Republic of Croatia, 1600 tenants older than 60 years were protected, the options for the housing of older protected tenants were also considered and the number of homes for older and powerless persons was established. The reasons why we decided to make and make one more amendment and the addition of the law are the following. The adoption of the law in question will bring into line the criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment when the apartment is provided by the tenant, the owner of the apartment with the criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment when the apartment is provided by the local self-government unit, thus fulfilling the obligation laid down in the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 31 March 1998, to fill the legal gap that causes the problems or inability to exercise the rights of the tenants, owners and protected tenants prescribed by the Law on Renting of Apartments. In addition, the adoption of the law in question will create a legal framework for the establishment of an appropriate balance between the opposing interests of the owners of dwellings in which protected tenants live, the interest of the State to ensure the implementation of the housing policy so that the owners of the dwellings are gradually able to obtain their property and make available fully available to the tenants on 1 September 2023, while at the same time protecting the general interest of the community which, together with the above, consists of ensuring the availability of satisfactory accommodation for persons in a worse position and ensuring the rights of the tenants, residents to respect their private and family life and at home guaranteed by the provisions of Article 8. Convention. In this way, the Republic of Croatia will fully fulfil its international obligations stemming from the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Statileo case against Croatia. What was the procedure? At the 7th session held on 2 March 2018, the Croatian Parliament discussed in its first reading a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rent of Apartments, which it concluded with the conclusion that all comments, proposals and opinions were sent to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. The following issues are covered by the subject-law. The criteria of the size and location of the second habitable apartment are evend in case of cancellation of the lease agreement for an indefinite period of time in which the apartment is required, the apartment is obliged to provide the owner of the apartment with criteria in which the second residential apartment is obliged to provide the unit of local self-government or the city of Zagreb in such a way that it is necessary to provide the appropriate apartment, where the apartment is considered to be located in the same municipality or city of the size of one person – one room, with the number of rooms not greater than the number of rooms in the apartment from which it is moved. Legal protection of the tenant and the protected tenant shall be governed in the event of the cancellation of the lease agreement and in the case where the unit of local self-government is obliged to provide the protected tenant with another suitable apartment with the rights and obligations of the protected tenant. The termination of the right of the tenant and protected tenant to the protected rent and other rights of protected tenants and protected tenants on the date of entry into force of this Act, if he, his spouse, life partner or member of the family household which the tenant is obliged to maintain in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, has the property of a habitable apartment or house. A gradual increase in the amount of protected rent from 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2023 in dwellings not owned by units of local self-government, regional or regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia, and the mechanism of payment of the difference between increased rent and protected rent by the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local self-government for socially sensitive groups of tenants, i.e. for users of dwellings who are members of the family of the mortally injured or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War or of the Croatian War Disabled from the Homeland War and are not residently cared for by those residents who receive permanent social assistance under a special regulation. Discontinuation of the right of tenants and protected tenants to the protected rent and other rights of protected tenants and protected tenants except for the right of first purchases of apartments that are not owned by units of local self-government, regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia on 1 September 2023. The housing status of persons who, on the date of entry into force of the House Rental Act, have ceased residential law and persons who have ceased the status of protected tenants in an apartment not owned by a local self-government unit, a regional self-government unit or a Republic of Croatia, who have not entered into a lease agreement under the House Rental Act and have not requested a court ruling to replace that contract. The right to subsidise the freely contracted rent of the tenant and protected tenants whose net income per household member has ceased to be less than or equal to half of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia for the past year and during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2028 shall be laid down. The advantage of protected tenants and protected tenants of dwellings not owned by units of local self-government, units of regional self-government or of the Republic of Croatia to other interested persons when renting or selling apartments carried out under rules governing socially encouraged housing, and apartments owned by units of local self-government, units of regional and regional self-government or of the Republic of Croatia which are leased or sold through a public tender shall be prescribed. It provides for the possibility of the tenant, including the Republic of Croatia of the local self-government unit, to use this right to fulfil its obligation, to ensure an appropriate apartment in the event of the cancellation of the lease contract and to introduce a measure to ensure the construction of the necessary number of apartments under the social incentive scheme for the rental or purchase of all interested protected tenants, protected tenants and pre-rented tenants. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Rental Act differs from the proposal of that Act in the following. The date from which the protected rent starts to be increased from 1 July to 1 September 2018 and the date of termination of the right to the protected rent from 1 July to 1 September 2023 was changed. The advantage of interested protected tenants and protected tenants of dwellings not owned by units of local self-government, the unit of regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia to other interested persons in the RS credit subsidisation programmes taken from credit institutions for the purchase of an apartment or house or the construction of a house in order to resolve their residential issue shall be prescribed. A measure shall be introduced to ensure the construction of the necessary number of dwellings under the Socially Incentived Rent Programme, i.e. the purchase of all interested protected tenants, protected tenants and pre-edited tenants, which shall be notified within the set time limit with a request for the same. The advantage of interested tenants and protected tenants who have reached 70 years of age, dwellings not owned by units of local self-government or the Republic of Croatia over other interested persons when receiving a home for older and powerless persons whose founder is a local self-government unit in the area of the local self-government unit in which he resides or in the area of another unit of local self-government. The right to professional assistance of protected tenants, protected tenants and pre-random tenants and persons who have ceased the status of protected tenants and protected tenants in finding and intermediation in the conclusion of an apartment or house purchase contract in the area of units of local self-government in which they reside or in the area of another unit of local self-government shall be prescribed. The necessary resources from the state budget, according to the information provided in the first reading of this law in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, are necessary for the subsidisation of freely agreed rents from 1 September '23. until 31 August '28. provide approximately 9.5 million kuna for a period of 12 months a year and a total of 6 years 47.5 million kuna. That amount is significantly subject to a possible gradual reduction, depending on the extent to which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional (regional) self-government will ensure the use of apartments owned or owned by local self-government units. And lastly, I need to point out again why we're going into these amendments to the law. These amendments to the law of the Republic of Croatia solve the problem of a legal gap that has been in existence for 20 years, and we will resolve this in a fair and sustainable manner. This means that we've been correcting an injustice that's been going on for decades. These amendments to the laws strike a balance between the conflicting interests of the tenants and the tenants. The owners of the apartments receive the exact date when they can fully and freely dispose of their real estate. The date will be held on 1 September 2023. It is these amendments that we are harmonising the law with the highest courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights and our constitutional court. This puts an end to potential lawsuits and damages because we permanently resolve the housing issue to the tenants and enter into possession of the employers. The state will take care of protected tenants, but not private property of citizens, but of its own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're going to the replicas, there are six of them, first in line, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88855	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stromar. So you repeated it again and it says in the light of the law that this bill seeks to find a solution between the opposing parties of the tenants and the owners. I want to warn you, it's not true, it's not true, it can't, it's not the role of law, it's not the role of government. The former state took someone's apartment, took an apartment, and then it was against his will, and someone else didn't have to know that she assigned a tenant right to that apartment. So this is about the attitude of the state to both the owners and the tenants. If there's a man in this country who's 70 years old, who's worked his whole life, made a living, paid taxes, paid a pension fund today has less pension than he's never worked in his life, and you're going to kick him out of his apartment or send him to a home in five years. I can't be for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88856	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88857	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. This law solves an injustice that was committed 60 years ago and 70 years ago, and the legal vacuum has been for 20 years. We must allow private owners of the apartments to enter their property. We have brought this law into line with the recommendations and position of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court. These recommendations and solutions are already very old and this is the task of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia must give owners the date when they will enter, but it must protect the tenants and it will protect them, but not by means of funds from the employers by means of the property of the citizens, but by means of its own means. And I'm convinced that we'll solve every protected tenant will have a roof over his head, he'll have his own home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88858	Second replica, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88859	Thank you, Mr. President. So I see you're going to solve the problem in a way that makes you work bigger than a little problem. The suggestions for your solution are at least ridiculous. You pointed out at the beginning of your debate that protected tenants would have the advantage of buying POS apartments. You are a resolute minister, you know how many families are, you know how many apartments are built through POS today in Croatia. Your statement is absurd, absurd goes further in the direction when you say they will take precedence in obtaining privileged loans. Which credit can be obtained by a 60 or 70-year-old person when a protected tenant with a pension is presumed, the minister should know what is the average pension in Croatia. The law is absurd not to solve a problem that is 20 years old, but to work and push the law, I'm sorry that HDZ will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88860	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88861	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. In the next year after this law comes into force, everyone who wants to solve their problem through the state, municipalities and cities will report to APN or units of local self-government, we will have exactly how much we need to solve housing issues, then by building a special process of POS, the POS will allow these people to rent a very high-quality apartment that is much cheaper on the market than the price on the market, and therefore the state will trust to secure a home over those people's heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88862	Dear comrade Bunjac, it's you now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88863	Thank you very much. Minister Štromar, I would like to know how the former president of the state Tudjman and other heroes of Croatia are allowed to buy their apartments and villas in Pantovack for 10% of the value, and they had the same tenant right as these people you now want to throw out on the street. So tell me, then, how is it possible that in Croatia we have citizens of the first order and citizens of the second row and do you approve that only those who have a party card can, like your colleague Uhlir, come to some of their rights and those who do not have can be delegated and can move out of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88864	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88865	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we must take care of the property of our citizens. Imagine the situation that you take credit and buy a house, but I think you're against taking credit, even though your president did take credit and buy a house and then get rid of some friends and those friends move into your house. After they move in, they say it's ours now, and you're at your parents' house with your children. And after a year they're in the house, and you're paying the loan war. This law solves such injustices and allows the owner of the apartment to actually enter his apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88866	Fourth replica, dear colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88867	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I would point out that by trying to actually right the injustice of 70 years ago, you're actually creating a huge injustice again. The state then secured a housing policy that was such, these people are absolutely not guilty and are coming into the situation today in fact that in some period that is not regulated by this law, where it does not say that it will be precisely solved, will be left without what other citizens of the Republic of Croatia have. So, you correct one injustice, you create another, and you create 3700 families that you're actually going to put into a situation of trying power, you want to put them in a position to buy, to be in loans, etc., and they were themselves in such a situation that they got a social apartment because they didn't have anything private. Therefore, we will come to a serious injustice, and the fact that it is not regulated in law is not good. The law should, if we are already doing so, have a state intervention and a solution entirely until the end in order to make each other even.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88868	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88869	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, yes, the injustice took place 70 years ago, 30 years ago, 20 years ago, and it's easy to solve that problem, and you and your government would have solved it. You had a press conference the other day where you said you wanted to solve this problem in 2002, but if it was difficult to solve, that it was easy to solve already. Now it's time to get rid of it in a fair way. I think this is a fair way and will allow everyone to have a roof over their heads, and that the owners of the apartments actually enter their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88870	The next replica, dear colleague Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88871	Dear colleagues, this is just the continuation of a robbery that began in '45. For years, there goes Mr. Bunjac here now, but I wanted to tell him some things. He selectively quotes history, he doesn't care about a thousand people who are... This is '45. To take away their property, he selectively quotes it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No wonder who lives in the most elite neighborhoods of Zagreb up there now, these are the troikas of OZNA, where did the old Zagreb go? ... Our neighbor was killed to take away his property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is just a follow-up robbery that started in '45. It's still going on today. What's a protected tenant? These people live in the center of town, of course every single case, but these people have other properties, a man came to me two days ago, my dad was killed, they took the building, he'll only come and sleep there now in the tent. And you've extended that law for 10 years. This is just a follow-up to that robbery that started in '45. For years, you selectively quote European laws, but this is just a smoke screen, nothing else. You've extended it for another 10 years, all those people will die. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88872	Wait a minute, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88873	Article 235 of MP Glasnović was injured and needed Minister Štromar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88874	Okay, he didn't replicate directly to you, but he used your speech to talk about something he wanted, but good. All right. I'm not gonna make any warnings because it's... Please, colleague Glasnović, colleague Glasnović. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Everyone has the right to express their opinion, please let us stick to it. Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88875	Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, the owners of the apartments will enter their property in five years, finally. And definitely after the vote of this law, and the state will worry about these five and the next five years intensely that everyone has their own roof over their heads, that everyone has their own home. The state is here to solve the victims' problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88876	And the last replica of a esteemed colleague, Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88877	Thank you very much, colleague Stromar, no one is convinced of these words of yours, and I think that people who listen to us today are doing it, some of them are taking it lightly, but it's almost 9,000 people, so we're coming up with the thesis that this injustice, this injustice, it's not going to be anyone's belief that you're going to solve this problem for these people, and no one believes that what you've done is right. If it were just and just, then these people would have the same rights as they, said a colleague of Bunjac, came here in the '90s, got social housing, lived in them for a year and bought them out by 10%. They were members of one party, we all know which, but these people had no right to do so and in this sense they are in a different position than all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A fair solution would be to give people this right, and the state would deprive the real owners of apartments of market value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88878	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88879	Dear Parliamentarian, I don't know where you numbered those 9,000 people but if there are, you can give your apartment or anyone else can give your apartment to those people, this law does not limit it. And you had a chance to solve that problem, you suggested something, but you retired because you said it and maybe it wasn't politically wise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88880	This is what we came to an end with the replicas, so now I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'd like to come forward? We have a colleague Maras on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88881	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Even under the impression of this incredible incursion of the minister that I give my personal apartment to get rid of it, shows how dysfunctional our state is and how unwittingly the officials are of their position, but well, they are also aware of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia so that they should be warned every day. The Labour, Pension and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 35th session of 27 June 2018 discussed the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Renting Apartments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 14 June. The Committee discussed this act in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Due to the large number of objections received to this act, it is very important here to say that it is not thought that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are thrilled by this bill, and according to the proposals made by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, during the debate in the first reading of the law, the Committee held a debate at a joint session with the Committee on Justice in that act. Due to the high public interest, representatives of associations that gather both protected tenants and private owners attended the committee's meeting. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law addresses the long-standing problems between the opposing interests of the owners of dwellings in which protected state-owned tenants live in order to ensure the implementation of housing policies in a way that gradually enables housing owners to make available to apartments owned by them from 1.9.2023. In the Republic of Croatia there are 3726 households of tenants with protected rent in private apartments, i.e. Mr. Štromar, 8935 members of households. So I didn't count them myself, that's the data that we got, which averages 2.40 household members per apartment that says the same is the opposite that one person in each apartment and the average area of these apartments is 62.25 m2 which also says that these are all apartments of 100 and more squares in the city center which they like to highlight some of our representatives here in the Assembly. About 19 "private apartments" are used by Croatian defenders who are proposed to distinguish between the increased rent and the protected rent of salaries and about 75% of "private apartments" used by users who have permanent social assistance which are proposed to subsidise the difference between the increased rent and the protected rent units of local self-government in whose area the apartments are located. The proposed law gradually increases the protected rent over a period of 5 years so that it runs from 1.9.2018 to 31.8.2023, and continues to prescribe interested protected tenants in the RS loan subsidisation programmes as well as the subject of older people from 70 years of age when accommodation in a home for older and powerless persons whose founder is the Croatian or local self-government units. In the debate they are presented, and it is very important that you, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, hear the opposite opinions about solving this long-term problem, part of the board believes that the proposed law will further deepen the gap between protected tenants and owners of apartments and the law does not offer a fair solution for either side. A part of the board members maintains that after several decades it is necessary to enable the owners of the apartments to return their property, while a part of the members consider that after the course of 5 years most protected tenants will have a time of coercion. Representatives of the tenants delivered their opinion that the owners of the apartments are in fact in one part and in the shop, and that the state discriminated against protected tenants from whom some live legally in those apartments for over 50 years and had a tenant right as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia for which they could not acquire another apartment. Owners believe their right of ownership has been violated for many years. Furthermore, an opinion was given to distinguish private owners depending on the way and time to acquire real estate because it was found that many owners bought property in a period of multiple prices. Part of the Committee considers that a fair solution in which the Republic of Croatia should compensate for the costs of one or the other party is to deprive private owners or protected tenants of the appropriate housing. It is pointed out that despite the application of the social system, the protected tenants were not illegally moving into private apartments, but they were also holders of residential rights as well as those tenants in social housing but did not have the possibility of buying the apartment because the apartment is privately owned. The whole debate shows that the problem is not easy, that the solutions offered by the state are not in the opinion of certain members of the board adequate and then the committee president put the bill to the vote, that is, a conclusion on the vote where most votes 6 are against going to third reading and 2 for, the conclusion was not accepted and, after the debate was conducted, the committee agreed by most votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renting Apartments with 5 votes to, 2 against and 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88882	Now we're moving on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88883	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to highlight the following on the basis of the proposed amendments and additions to the House Rental Act. The measure of this law that we are discussing today is a relic of the past and a very complex issue of resolving the rights of owners who, during the communist regime, have been seized by force by their assets and by resolving the issue of protected tenants whose status stemmed from the status of tenants who were entitled under the same regime, weighed over property ownership. Both sides and owners of apartments seized during the communist rule as well as protected tenants of victims are one system whose roots and problems unfortunately to this day have not been solved. In addition, according to the final draft of the law before us and the solutions offered are not particularly elaborated and represent a minimum which is exclusively satisfied because we were again ordered by an out-of-state body in this case by the European Court of Human Rights. It is a shame that more than 3.5 months have passed between the two readings of this law in which the proposer has succeeded only and exclusively cosmetically, both in scale and in form, to edit a few small things that I will later present. Furthermore, it is a shame that after 4 years of Statileo's sentence, we are only now in the Assembly to discuss the final proposal for this law and the deadline for adopting it was three years ago. Despite the above mentioned government and the resolute Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, they have so far found no appropriate solution to this issue and, as usual, the burden of their mistakes has been transferred to the backs of citizens, meaning the backs of owners and protected tenants. In one order, the financial burden of past profits was transferred to property owners seized in the communist regime and in the other order the burden of uncertainty that rights of protected tenants would be arranged and whether they would lose a roof over their heads. So I wonder if this kind of delicate question is being handled by the Government in such a non-chalant and in the game is even monitoring the European Court of Human Rights and possible diplomatic political consequences and we all know it's our only concern about how it is handled, we all know how the Government acts when there is no foreign monitoring, when no one pressures the government, when it comes to quotes "only about ordinary problems, ordinary citizens". I think we all know how the government acts in such a case. I will return to what this 3.5 month between the first and second readings has been changed, I have been left with paper here, meaning the changes made between the two readings are mostly related to the legal or nomotechnical proper regulation of the text of the law itself, but in several parts the protection of the owners of the apartments, or protected tenants, has been increased in the following. So the protection of the owner of the apartment has been increased by adding Article 4 to Article 28, which is given judicial protection in the emergency procedure of the owner of the apartment, which is not compensated by the Republic of Croatia, the city of Zagreb or the other unit of local self-government which is obliged to do so. As for the protection of the tenants, it has been increased by the following new provisions. So the local self-government unit is required to take into account the interests of protected tenants in the planned socially stimulating housing. The protected tenants shall take precedence in the award of subsidized loans and the award of PO apartments and protected tenants older than 70 years shall have the advantage of obtaining a place in a nursing home under the same conditions. And also protected tenants whose rights have expired still have the right to additional professional assistance in finding an adequate apartment. We are all aware that these changes are not enough. We're thinking everyone here on the line of protection of private property and nobody's slowing down, I haven't heard from any of my colleagues from the SDP or anyone here in the assembly or from a fellow living wall but the fact is that we have the right to a home. I don't think these provisions are going well enough in favor of protected tenants, and that's not where the balance that the government and the ministry were supposed to find was found. It is also worth noting that all deadlines for late second reading have been shifted from 1.3.2018 to 30.06.2023 to 31.08.2023 due to the slowness and sloppyness of the applicant's work. In conclusion, we at the MOST Club believe that a better quality solution should be made in these four years, that this proposal is exclusively satisfying the form and that these 10 minor changes that have been presented to us as a difference from the first reading shame for the ministry that 3.5 months with the team of people is working on these changes. So I repeat again, every right to property, the right to private property, but also the right to a home, it must not be hurt and it must not suffer either because of the mistakes made in the former regime, and because of everything that has happened. These people, he spoke and a colleague here means it's about one large number of people, one large number of families, and that's all to be considered. Unfortunately, the ministry and the government did not take care of it enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88884	We're going to another debate. HDZ representative club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88885	I thank Mr. President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, State Secretary with an associate, respected fellow and fellow Members, we at the HDZ Representatives' Club on the occasion of the first reading of the Law on the Rent of dwellings have made our position when it comes to resolving this one trauma that has been in existence for more than 20 years and has not been resolved over 20 years and has not found a model of how and how to balance the protection of two fundamental human rights, which is property on the one hand and on the other hand, housing rights, rights to housing, rights to a home that they enjoy and are owned by protected tenants. The fact that the Law on renting apartments was passed in 1996, which was intended to address the issue of protection of property rights and protection of protected tenants. However, it is obvious that these legal solutions, which were originally determined and reasoned by the 1996 Law, could not have passed from a constitutional and legal standpoint the supervision of the Constitutional Court and then the Constitutional Court made a decision that abolished 4 articles, after which there was a legal gap in the legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia, which practically imposes uncertainty on the legal void, and even more so on the former owners, as well as protected tenants. In this regard, the Law defined an excessive burden on the owners of dwellings who were obliged by the basis of that Law to provide adequate replacement for their apartment, which is returned to them by virtue of the Law on Renting Apartments, and he is then obliged to provide protected tenants with adequate real estate and such provision of the Law on Renting Apartments, the Constitutional Court has abolished. After that, we found no suitable solution in the Republic of Croatia that would satisfy neither owners nor protected tenants. The additional circumstance to this situation is brought by the European Court of Human Rights in the judgment of Statileo against the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to address this issue to former owners or owners of the dwellings by taking care of protected tenants. So, the 20 years behind us after the Constitutional Court's decision, we haven't found a quality solution. I claim and hold that this solution is the least wrong. It certainly, and we see it from the statements of protected tenants, are not satisfied with the kind of solution offered by this Law, but within the possibility that the Government, by proposing this Law, has tried and sought this trauma, as I said in the introduction, to solve in one way that can also be satisfied with the protection of the right of ownership, thereby and the owners of these apartments, and on the other hand, is trying to find a model and measure how and how to ensure protected tenants that after 1 September 2023, when they need to move out of the apartments in which they live, and how they are provided with the proper real estate, an appropriate apartment that they can continue to live in those apartments. A solution under which, following the entry into force of the Act, the Agency for Real Estate Transport should conduct one analysis, i.e. through all 3,000 apartments which, according to the State Statistics Office, are controversial in terms of the resolution of this Act, gives me a good solution. For what? Because the project encourages housing will build rental apartments that would then have to and would allow protected tenants to continue after the deadline, so that they can continue and have an apartment in rent, which will therefore be built by a large part of the RH. So I think that's one of the possible solutions. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and in the first reading, we have stated precisely that one of the existing models, so the model encourages housing on the one hand, and for those protected by the tenants who are able to solve their own problem through the project of the House Subsidisation Act, which is to become the owners of the apartment in such a way that instead of protecting the tenants through one of these models that are in the Republic of Croatia and being implemented when it comes to resolving the housing issue, they find a way that is most acceptable to them to be able to resolve the housing issue, or to solve it in this way. I know it's not simple, I know that part of the protected tenants are not even able to raise credit because at a high age some of them simply may not have the ability to raise loans to solve the housing issue when I'm talking about ownership and purchase of the apartment, but through a project encouraged by housing that enables renting certain protected tenants, so I believe that one part of the protected tenants can be satisfied. So, by combining both models, I believe that you could find the most qualitative solution. The question arises whether the Republic of Croatia could, and I heard such a proposal during this debate, enter a new project of building apartments, 3000 apartments that would then be replacement apartments for protected tenants or would be compensation for the owners of apartments. I also believe that this solution is not fair and it is not good, but that it is a better way and a better approach for the government of the Republic of Croatia when proposing this mode to enable all protected tenants to reach an apartment that would then be rented through the project to make up for what they have done after 1 September 2023, and that is to move out of those apartments. In that sense, we at the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this law aware that it is not easy, that it is not possible to fully correct the injustice, but I believe that this is a model that can satisfy both the owners of apartments and protected tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88886	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88887	Your Honor. In about half an hour before the Ministry of Education will begin a protest, an educational rehabilitation that has deprived the rights. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break to consult on these events. Namely, I was asked here in the Croatian Parliament to warn that these people have lost their right to even... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88888	I am a colleague of Thunder because there's a free speech in an hour. ... So what's the protest? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What's that got... No, I don't care, I probably care more than you do, but I don't act the way you do here. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please sit down, you're getting a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is extremely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88889	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88890	I don't care. ... You're getting a reminder by taking a word out. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88891	I won't sit down because you won't let me warn you about that problem. I won't sit until you let me say this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88892	I'd like to ask the guard to take my colleague Bolt out. A ten-minute stop before that. It's 10:00.22. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.28 HOURS]] Now it's up to a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88894	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. In front of us, after almost 4 months, the second reading of the Law on Renting Apartments and we should be wondering what another reading serves when we see that virtually no changes to this law have occurred, and it should have come because the public interest is very large on this issue because there is a clear situation that many parts of this law are controversial. It is that this version of the law that we have in the House today, that is, for the first time, replaces one social injustice, or corrects another injustice, so we could say one injustice corrects an even greater injustice. The HNS gentlemen, with all the support of HDZ and some other foreigners, decided simply to solve this problem by throwing people out on the street, so that's the solution they're offering. So this is also in one extremely cynical and inhumane way, namely, these actions will generally happen in five years when it is quite clear that, neither these gentlemen will be at their functions now, nor will the HNS be a parliamentary party, but that is my concern for the transition to another and they have done their job, they have collected a few cheap points, and the worst of all seems to have achieved material benefits themselves. For cynicism to be complete, they say we'll give you the advantage of those people they're about to throw out, retirement homes, but provided you're 70 years old, means not on condition that they're retired, but if they're 70 years old, and people are going to retire with 65, some go to a long time ago, not respecting the fact that there are only 14,000 places in retirement homes and 760,000 pensioners in Croatia, and even these current people who want to come to their homes can't possibly get in line, that they have to wait 10 years or more, they actually have to wait until death, and the only way to get a place in retirement homes is to have money, another way. Another brilliant solution proposed by the Ministry of Construction is that the people who were kicked out of the apartments buy an apartment, this is either to rent an apartment, that's for them a fair solution, but for such a solution, it shouldn't have waited for another reading, it could have been adopted, and the first version, it could have been said look, we'll get it back whatever you think about, whatever anyone said, and you're getting along however you know. What is important, however, is that this law, regardless of what is to be accepted, is so hollow that it will most likely in the future simply be inadmissible, i.e. it will be rejected and that is what the nominal owners of the apartments must know, that the government and them in some way have deceived them, or promised them something that will not be feasible. For example. The protected tenants can file a constitutional suit and send this law to the assessment of the Constitution and it will fall, 100% will fall, so it is a very simple task for a simple reason, if nothing else because it is not respected by the assessment of the effects of the regulations, and this law says that before some law enters into force it is necessary to carry out an impact assessment. We see that the ministry has no idea how many apartments there are that have to go back to the owners, how many families they're going to have to leave the apartments, how many of them are employees of the pensioners, how many of them have some possibility of being in another property, they don't even know how many original owners. So then we listen to some say there are 10% original owners, others say there's 90%, there's so many shoppers, so many speculators, etc. So the Ministry doesn't have that information at all. And what will be in the Constitutional Court when a constitutional assessment is sent? The law will fall. On the other hand, the law will fall among other things, very likely and because this government will no longer be in power, will not be in power and simply some other government will change this law or completely reject it, depending on what the situation is. If this government had the courage, if Minister Stromar were a man so he'd settle it within a year, while I'm in power, so I'll bear the consequences, I'll watch people defuse them, solve it like Slovenians, throw them out right now, here, you're the minister, the great power in this country, you're not afraid of yourself and your conscience? So the Slovenians settled in a year, set deadline, 1.9.2019. Look at the consequences of his not working. But you also need to know one thing, which is that in Slovenia, all the rentals in Slovenia got replacement apartments, you study and it's not Slovenia far away, so here we can take 45 minutes with the car, so look how it's solved there. The obligation to provide replacement apartments was given to those who are the legal heirs of the former state. Because in the former state, all tenants with tenant rights were equal in rights. They were all equal in rights, and it didn't matter whether you get a social apartment or you get an apartment with a nominal owner or so on, they were all equal. And according to the Law on the Sucession of the former state, I don't know if you read the laws, if not, here I brought it to you and I'll read it to you, just a little bit, I have here, in 2004, it has to respect the found state of 31.12.1990. So you've got to get things back to square one, and the Slovenians put it back. Who is a legal follower, is a legal successor to the state or unit of local self-government. And you're gonna tell the fake public now, we don't have any money. You have money, only from the sale of state-owned apartments, has immediately received 400 billion euros and in this sale to wars that are still going on, meaning that it is not yet finished, the state has received at least a billion euros. So you received a billion and 400 million euros or about 10 million kunas that were strictly intended and were among other things meant to serve to address the issue of protected tenants. And when you mention POS's apartments, you would build up enough POS apartments from a billion to 2 billion kunas to move all protected tenants to these apartments, that is to say, the same apartments as substitutes would be given to nominal owners if it were a more favourable solution for them, if they wanted to, of course. And you gentlemen have already done this, you have given the Church replacement apartments, you have given replacement apartments. So how can you give the Church without giving it to the citizens? Is the Church of State in the State? Do I not know, members of the HDZ, are some of the more important citizens or members of the CNS than other Croatian citizens? Has Mr. Uhlir calmed down? It is. Have all the villas of the HDZ and the tycoons been sold on Pantovack? They did. Then why can't the same right get people who had the same right? They had it until 1996, and they had the same right. Why was it taken from them? Why are you taking away your rights? How would you react if someone in the Parliament came to you and took away your rights? I don't know, let's just say that disability pensions are cancelled, for example. How would you react? You'd be standing on your back feet, you'd say it's anti-constitutional, anti-human, and you'd go to the European Court on this, on that, and you're doing it right now. The rights you've acquired are annulled and it's very clear that you're doing it for the sake of interest and cowardice because I'm asking myself a question, you're calling on that judgment, Statileo, so why do I care about the judgment of Statileo? I make that paper a paper ship and throw it down Sava, which I don't care about. We have a Croatian state, we should have solved this problem ourselves long ago and not now Europe has said, but as soon as Europe has said, it is running to break the problem over its knees. He told Big Brother that it had to be settled. What were you waiting for from 1990 to today? I agree with the fact that nominal owners should be compensated. And I agree with them that they have the right to enjoy their property and I agree with the fact that there are protected tenants who have other properties and that it is simply a great injustice but problems need to be dealt with systematically by analysing each situation individually. And not by looking at things black and white. At least one group of citizens is insulted and demoted. So to speak, and those protected tenants, they're commies, etc. There are people who have acquired their rights before II. World War II housing law in their apartments. There are people who have been thrown out from communists into the street, and then they've been given these apartments socially as some kind of compensation for property worth 10, 20 times more, and now they're going to end up being thrown out of it. So there are casualties among these protected tenants. There are people who have come to such a situation against their will, and at the same time, together with the owners of social housing, paid for POS every year or social construction in the former state. They paid equally and eventually lost equal rights. Therefore, if you had heard and had the courage and had the will, you could have solved this problem on your own, without EU interference and in a way that people were not thrown into the streets. I call upon all protected tenants to press charges against such a law and to appeal to Article 34. A constitution that says that home is invulnerable. This article of the Constitution is also not analysed in the preparation of this law and if you refer to Article 34. The Constitution, I guarantee you the Constitutional Court will bring down all these solutions you've written here. To whose shame? To the shame of those who wrote this law. And that's how you need it. It will be the crown proof of your inability and irresponsibility and you now think that you have succeeded, I don't know at the time while Croatia is waiting for the eighth final or while people are preparing for the summer that you will be able to get something under the table, but you will finally see that none of what you have brought here today will be. Violence cannot solve a major social problem. Therefore, I want to say what we said and for the first time in reading the position of the Living Wall, this way of solving this problem for us is unacceptable and we will vote against this bill. And to all those who are damaged by this law, I urge them to continue fighting for as long as this problem is not dealt with fairly for the benefit of all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88895	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mrs. Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88896	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice President with his associates. Here I am sure and I know that today, as in the first reading, which we have already had opportunities to see, there will be a lot of objections and criticism about the proposal and the amendments to this law. The government is given social insensitivity, not to worry about its citizens who are being denied the right to go home, that this bill punishes tenants who have no money to buy real estate and so on. There were really theatre performances without any argument, so there was also the name of some of our colleagues, and on the basis of the title of the newspaper, even colleagues did not bother or a colleague from the Living Wall to read the text where he would have seen that it was not what was in the title but that the facts were in the text. And the facts are true, but it was to be tried and read, not to mention the flat-rates. We're used to getting right from the Living Wall. And I'm telling you colleagues from the Living Wall, there won't be any action, and you won't get a chance to collect cheap political points on the raids because this law allows everyone to have a roof over their heads and there won't be any eviction from their apartments. Say what we need to look back and what we need to respect the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Well, of course, you're for getting out of Europe, I don't know where you'd live. And given all the things I've heard from you, I'm not surprised and sorry that at first I had to look at myself like this because after all those untruths, calling for violence, where the Living Wall is placed, not only are they not lawyers anymore, lawyers are also being placed in the roles of supreme judges. I don't think that really makes sense. But anyone who reads the amendment and the addition of the Law on renting apartments knows that it is not and knows that this is just cheap pulsism, and that there is something else here and that it is really trying to regulate the relationship of the owners of apartments, natural persons and protected tenants. And it was necessary to pass the law to address this problem of housing owners and protected tenants and tenants. Namely, the '96 Apartment Rental Act. In the year, a new legal arrangement of housing relations was created, leaving the legal concept of household law and allowing tenants to become protected tenants. So on the one hand, we have owners of apartments that can't be used and dispose of their property, and on the other hand, tenants who stayed in private apartments as tenants are later protected tenants, and they didn't have the possibility of buying a private apartment like those tenants in social housing. We all know the '96 renting law. it was not the happiest solution and was subject to an assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, at the time of the Constitutional Court, abolished certain provisions of the law. At the same time, the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Statileo v Croatia found that Croatia's legislative framework did not strike a balance between the interests of the owners of dwellings in which protected tenants and the interests of the state live to ensure the implementation of housing policy. He identified the main shortcomings, which is an inadequate level of protected rent, conditions for cancellation of the protected lease and the absence of any time limit in relation to the secure rental system. On that occasion, the Court decided that the Republic of Croatia should take appropriate legislative and other general measures to ensure a balance between the interests of the employer, including their right to gain from its assets and the general interest of the community. And that's why it was necessary to start solving this problem. We are aware that in a situation like this, it is difficult to find a solution in which we would all be completely satisfied and that this bill is just the beginning of resolving them. And certainly not the only legal framework in solving this situation. I must remind once again that the protected tenants 50 or some even 70 years lived in apartments that did not belong to them and paid a symbolic rent. All this time, the owners of these apartments were unable to use their properties. We have various examples, we have an example where apartment of 40 square meters in the strict center of Split is protected by the tenant pay 250 kuna per month, and 250 kuna is the very reserve paid by the owner. Of course, to secure his residential question on the periphery he buys an apartment where he lives with his family and pays the war of 3000 kuna. In the meantime, even the tenant and sues the owner for the funds he invested in editing that apartment so that we now have these costs that should fall on the property burden of the owner who doesn't actually use his real estate. We also have a case where one of the most active members of the Association of Protected Renters in 93, according to privileged conditions, so 10% of the market values buys an apartment of 80 square meters in the center of Split. The apartment prescribes daughters, who live in that apartment for days, and she now claims that the father, who was not the owner, but the protected tenant, also inherited an apartment in Zagreb. We have other situations, of course. We have examples where we really need help from these protected tenants who can't handle this issue on their own, and it's precisely this law that regulates the involvement of the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local self-government that will find the most optimal solution for everyone. These amendments to the law of the Republic of Croatia address the problem of legal voids that have existed for 20 years in a fair and sustainable way. This means that these changes are corrected by an injustice that has lasted for 7 decades, a balance is reached between the opposing interests of the tenant and the tenant. The owners get the exact date when they can fully dispose of their real estate, which is September 1st, 2023. Until then, they gradually increase their protected rent and thus reduce the difference between the protected property they are now receiving and the marketable property they would have received if the apartment were on the market. In addition to 5 years of retaining a protected tenant's status, protected tenants also receive a state subsidy when paying the market rent after the expiry of the existing status for an additional 5 years, if they have not resolved, so until 1.9.2023. It will also have the advantage of buying or renting POS apartments as well as the advantage in subsidised loans. This bill makes it clear that the protection of the rentals proves that the full concern of persons in a worse position is taken over by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the local self-government unit. Care is also taken of by elderly people who, because of their situation, will be interested in accommodation in homes for older and powerless, so that when receiving home, the founder of the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units, will have an advantage on equal terms. And what is more important and what are changes in relation to first reading, to provide professional assistance to protected tenants in finding and intermediating in the conclusion of a contract on renting or buying a house or apartment, and that assistance will certainly be useful. And they also need APNs and local self-government units to make a public call within 60 days so that all interested people who want to, whether or not to rent, whether buying POS apartments and in a year how certain that deadline is to be recorded for objective reasons, we have heard all the ways in which accurate information has been attempted, we do not have accurate information in the number of these apartments, or about the number of protected tenants. Of course we understand also protected tenants who have lived in one address for years, in the same apartment, have created a home and are bound and sentimental for this place, but we have to understand the other side. We need to understand those whose place is owned, and they could live at that address or they could rent that apartment and make a certain profit for it, and that home has someone else who would pay the market rent. Therefore, we consider this proposal to be an optimal and acceptable solution for protected tenants, and for the owners of apartments. Therefore, the HNS will accept the amendment and addition of the House Rental Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88897	Now, Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88898	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is a complicated matter, we talked about it on the Human Rights Committee, which is what the representative of the SDSS Club here spoke about in the first reading. This is the place of creating injustice and this place of creating injustice in two senses. One is if you cut too many sides off and leave too little to the other. And in another sense, if the whole thing lasts too long and the state doesn't meet its obligations. This second is a fact, the state has assumed by law that out of the sold apartments that were social, the result of social housing, 400 000 of them around, the Republic of Croatia according to the 2011 census will have about a million and 200,000 families. So in the Socialist Republic, which many here today call what names, one quarter of the housing fund is built for one quarter of what families are in the Republic of Croatia today. Where'd that money go? We hope they are used for some noble or necessary things, but they are not used for those for whom the law provides to be used. And that provision was valid until 2002. So that 90% of the funds that are coming from the sale of social housing will be used among other things to address the issue of owners in which the protected tenants live, while taking care of housing, protected tenants. That didn't happen. We can spit on that country that, by that system that built 400,000 apartments for its families. How much today did Croatia build apartments for this family? According to data from the ministry, unfortunately we're a little bit of a social state. We understand the need to protect the right of ownership but if it cuts too far to the side of protected tenants, then we don't understand it. And we're afraid this law cuts too far away from protected tenants. First, the matter is being transferred to local self-government units. According to a table provided by the local self-government unit, such as the town of Vukovar, the city of Vinkovci, the town of Varazdin, the town of Karlovac do not have rental units, nor units that could be eligible as a substitute for property that, i.e. the rights of people as protected tenants. We hope that there is an institute that the ministry plans to address the issue of units of local self-government because the institution that the law provides is to go to court then what? They'll say we don't have those apartments. And the court will make a decision on the blockade and then what did we do? Then we're going to build 47 apartments or secure 47 apartments for some units of local self-government is a huge amount of money and it's about these sizes. Therefore, if the ministry, or legislator of the law, the Government has a way of resolving these issues, then that is to be said, it should be said openly. But to transfer that responsibility to units of local self-government that do not have that kind of fiscal capacity is neither a solution to local self-government units nor a solution to protected tenants, or a solution to the problem. Another thing that is, at the very least, asking for an answer is when someone turns 70 to offer him the opportunity to go to a home. It's not clear from this principle here whether it's his wish or whether it's someone else's. That's not clear. Why isn't it clear? This should be explained by the legislator. We cannot accept such a provision because it can be the subject of manipulation by which someone who can interpret the law, you have that possibility, go to home. And it certainly can't be a solution or it can't be part of a solution. The third thing we want to warn about is Article 6 of this bill, which is to say that those who have an apartment or a house lose the status of a protected tenant by the power of this law. Who can it be you? If someone has a holiday house on the Kupa, in Pocupsko and lives in Zagreb, is this house also a house for housing? If someone has an apartment on Vira, a summer vacation for themselves or their family, is she, and lives in Varazdin, is this apartment for him, for his apartment? Unless this changes, unless explicitly stated that one who has an apartment or a house, in a place or near a place where he lives, lives and works, we cannot support such a legal solution because then it will be the way to force people to sell out what they have and for many people in our country, it is unfortunately a guarantee that they have such an age for themselves or for their children. Well, now, if we, based on these remains of what people have managed to preserve, and from what some call a non-national regime, are going to solve this issue after we cut the money that was obtained by selling social-owned apartments, we won't be able to support it. There are more injustices when it comes to housing and housing and housing issues. About 30, 35,000 people lost their tenant rights by the wave of refugees from Croatia due to wartime circumstances. By 2003, there was no solution for these people, they couldn't buy their apartments, some bought their apartments, they didn't invest anything in solid housing funds but became tenants of residential law overnight and at the same time the owners could buy it under favourable conditions. For members of the refugee Serb population, a solution to housing was found in 2003. To this day, most of these people have not received a solution to housing despite the programmes that exist and there are very few who have bought or can buy these apartments because the price of the purchase is approximately as much as the market prices for most environments in which they live regardless of what 20 years or 30 years live in refugee, regardless of what most are social cases. Therefore, when laws are passed, care must be taken of the constitutional category of equality and constitutional category of proportionality. In the case of this law, as well as in the case of the Law on the Housing of Ex-Lawholders, it is difficult to violate the principle of equality and the principle of proportionality, two basic constitutional categories in the application of the law and application of the Constitution. So I'd like to say one more thing, among the protected tenants there are various cases, as our colleague used to say here, I think, warning me of some. But you also have some who have changed their tenancy rights to that status. You have some who sold their property or gave their property to get this. Now we're gonna put them all in the same basket and treat them the same. Well, it's not 3 million and 500 grand, it's probably less than this official number that's being talked about here. So by walking from case to case, and if every case were considered, there would be a need to create several categories and see how to solve them. And maybe some people's homes will really be a solution, a nursing home. And maybe some people will have another solution. And I don't understand why we didn't go that way, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For all these reasons, it seems wise to us, I especially tell our partners in the ruling coalition, primarily HDZ, but also our friends from the HNS to go to the 3rd reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88899	Thank you. Now it's the SDP Representatives' Club. First Mr. Babic will speak and then Mr. Vidovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88900	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a colleague and a colleague on behalf of the club who, the vast majority who spoke before me pointed to a number of shortcomings in this I'd say a superficially passed law. In our first reading, we were promised that we would have adequate analyses before this unfair law was passed, unfortunately we didn't get them except for the extraction of the Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister, that the local self-government units didn't provide him with the data, I'm just going to ask him if you were doing anything in that ministry? It's about three thousand 800 families. Is this 3800 items of land-based book excerpts just too much for you to determine or not? I'm even inclined to believe that you didn't even want to establish it, you didn't want to establish to get an excuse to pass a law like this. You're passing the law in which you answered me when I asked you how many POS buildings were being done, how a 70-year-old person would get a privileged loan you said here you are now when all the nice applications are being made, then we're going to go solve POS. So you have no idea how many people there are going to be, how many people they're going to apply for, and you're passing the law. You're not serious at all. The law itself is a waste, worth nothing, so to pass a law without analysis in a social state as ours is at least irresponsible and clear. And I'm honestly surprised at the HDZ that you were able to blackmail him into bringing this crap to the Parliament and even discussing it, let alone vote on it. Also, colleagues have warned of the fact that in nursing homes, or homes for old and powerless, we don’t even have 15,000 seats, you say that people will take care of them. Do you know how many rows there are for nursing homes, how many of them are there? You obviously don't know or you don't care. Since I know what kind of team you are, what kind of party you are, I know you're not interested in that. And that's why... By recalibrating HDZ, such a law to resolve some of its interests, of course, regarding the financial side of the nature of what you have brought here now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I already said it, and I called this document like I said. You ignored many facts, you lead, you prepared material of course in the direction that suits you. In the first debate, I don't know if, at the first reading, you blindly stuck to the constitutional right to property, the right to a home was absolutely ignored. In the legislative proposal he is on "mothers we", "we will solve him, there will be POS". How many of you haven't even told me how many POS apartments are being built now? What units of local self-government can participate in that at all? The government has brought the categorization of municipalities, i.e. local self-government units, meaning cities and municipalities by development. Half of it's underdeveloped, half of it's underdeveloped, and you, the state, are putting down responsibility to local self-government units, to those who barely patch up end-to-end, who don't have 10% for European projects, to participate in this kind of business in the way you don't know, you don't have any idea how many people are going to come forward at all. You expect from a 70-year-old person, now what is the average pension you find out, so answer me eventually, to get a privileged loan to solve your living issue. Shame on you, shame on you. You don't solve anything, it's better not to get rid of anything for 20 years than to deliver this garbage to the Croatian Parliament. The judgment of Statileo, imagine Europe. Suddenly it is important what Europe says, so shame for Croatia, shame for Croatia. Do you really want to, do we really have to be portrayed as some kind of loyal people? So put your mind to the state's interest, let's get your head up! There are other convictions you've ignored. You are referring to the Convention on Human Rights and you are calling for a verdict, so there are other judgments. You have a verdict, Lemo. Why didn't you mention it? Why didn't you mention that verdict? She's not worth it? Statileo's worth it, and Lemo's not worth it? I took too much time. A colleague came out. I'm gonna finish, and we agreed something, so I thought I'd gone a little too far. [[Intruder Radin: You set the time for colleagues how you will be distributed, not me.]] Also, the Privatisation Act ended up part of the social housing funds in the country, part of local self-government units. Questions were also asked where is this money? What exactly is the arrival? What's the cost? You have no answer to that question either. I really, here's your option we're ready for anything, you've already shown yourself in political life, you'll be punished in the next parliamentary elections, I'm just surprised to the HDZ that you've agreed to express you like this and that we have a bill like this in the House. Thank you very much. Yeah, the SDP won't support this, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88901	Mr. Vidovic continues the debate now on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88902	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, my colleagues and my colleagues. So we at the SDP club are aware of how big this problem is. This problem lasts, not just since '91, but before. So violent kidnapping of property has been carried out since '41. years practically. We know that this problem is not easy to solve, so the government and the government in the Republic of Croatia passed, no one has made a move or HDZ governments, so let's call them that because HDZ was majority, and neither has our SDP governments. We didn't have the courage then, and that's why this problem has escalated today. However, what needs to be said, this bill is bad, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Uhlir, the bill is bad, really bad. So he takes care of only one group, doesn't take care of the people sitting upstairs at your gallery, who were the tenants taking care of the tenants? In doing what we particularly resent, it is that the state has no right, there is no legality, no legitimacy to come out of that situation and say like Pique, we are nothing to blame, let them combine themselves, and we will bring them a framework in which the combination will be brought. That's not right. Croatia is a social state, Croatia is a country in which home is a constitutional category as we know it and I think the minimum, minimum that the state should do is sit down, consider, make a model in which, I will not be satisfied with the word, but in which there will be such justice. This situation does not cause any justice, though. You are now correcting old injustices by making some new people wrong, you are getting an even bigger category instead of 5,000 citizens, I am speaking harshly, because unfortunately there is no analysis, instead of 5,000 dissatisfied citizens you will get 15, 20,000 dissatisfied citizens. And you say we've solved it, you haven't solved anything. Secondly, the creditworthiness of people who are 70 years old, so I think most of us here have credit, we know at least the conditions under which credits are raised. Who can get a loan when they're 70? Who's that? So that's the second part of the story. Then, by offering them nursing homes and damaging other people with that, you're damaging other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have already applied, and now you're giving priority to someone else, have you kept an account? So these are all the reasons why we can't support this law, this law is extremely bad, it's extremely bad for the Republic of Croatia in the end because this law will produce a number of new lawsuits and these lawsuits won't be like this Statileo because you haven't been told how you're going to solve it, but it's only been found that there is injustice and that there is an injustice for the Republic to be corrected, no one told you by which model, you chose the model yourself. Furthermore, when it comes to analysis, I'm sorry, but without a serious analysis, I don't even know why it came into the law? You don't even know how much the costs of that law are possible, how many could come. What would it mean if the state took the burden on itself and started building apartments for the tenants so they could buy them under the same conditions my parents bought them under, I suppose some of you or your parents? So I didn't see those models thinking, and I think there's a lot of space in there, and I don't see any harm coming out of it for the state. Then how many shoppers do you have all over the story? I don't get into how whoever acquired the property. Okay, he could've gotten it anyway, it's all legal to understand, but it's not like there's a place someone's been living in for 50 years, so give it back to the heir or bring it back to someone he bought in order to speculate with him whether or not he fertilizes his capital, it's not exactly the same, in that country he assists and gives his hand to the buyers. It's no correction of injustice, however, and there's also damage to your successor because that apartment has been sold for 10 or 15% of the value, you've been damaged by the tenant, and the speculator has finally earned it. He didn't break the law, though, but he earned it, and the state assists him in all of it. You are violating the European Convention on Human Rights with this, and you are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We as a SDP certainly won't support this law, I said at first I'm aware of everything, but we can't support this. In addition, Mr. Uhlir, you are throwing a serious shadow at this law, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, etc. I'm not saying you're guilty or you're real, I'm just saying that it's a serious shadow of the reasons why this law is being passed. And you should remove that shadow. I can't remove it. So you're directly benefiting from this law, that's how it works out in the media, that's how it turns out by what I saw coming out. I didn't see any of your explained big ones here. In any case, I call on you, Deputy Prime Minister, to transfer this law to third reading, to make a truly serious analysis, and to try to find everyone together, it is a responsibility to our citizens, it is a responsibility in the end and towards the Republic of Croatia to try to find a common model that will achieve both the tenants and the tenants, and also the state ultimately being as satisfied. You can't leave one side to feel completely played, it's not right. So these people aren't guilty that they ended up in those apartments, they didn't choose them. You can't leave them on the street right now and say ok, that's not our concern. It's our concern. It's whose concern. I call upon you to send the law to the third reading, to try to find a model together and believe us we are willing constructive if we should participate in this with all our knowledge and on the interest of all the citizens of the Republic. A bill like this, unfortunately, we won't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88903	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the HSS representative to speak to Mr Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88904	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of the HSS Club, I will repeat the words that our President, Mr. Krešo Beljak, yesterday said that we will not support this law because it does not solve the problem in the end are unsatisfactory and protected tenants and owners of apartments. In fact, it is necessary to tell the truth that this government and this minister did not put this law here before us because they want to solve the problem but to be pressured by the opinion of Brussels, the European Commission, the Council, the European Court of Human Rights, because the verdicts have begun to come and which ultimately burden the state and which is a serious financial burden for the state and, of course, it had to be settled. It should be placed in place and role and protected tenant and owner to seek to protect their rights. One constitutional right to a home, another constitutional right to property. And it's not good that we still have unsolved property in the Republic of Croatia and that it has not been recovered until today. Following the '97 law. There are still lots of cases that have not been solved. And it should be said that those who work at the Office of State Administration in the regional self-government who worked on these cases did not have adequate or professional, or financial assistance from the State to get rid of these cases, and that is one of the reasons, nor are they enough employees in the property and legal services offices, nor have they had adequate salary as a reward for their work, and they have often changed the rules and provisions of this law that they have dealt with, and therefore there are still many pending cases. And this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the House Rental Act will ultimately not solve the problem. And that's what we keep delaying solving the problem, leaving the potential danger of continuing court proceedings and the state paying financial obligations on the same side, and on the other hand we have dissatisfied tenants and even more dissatisfied owners. And what is not good is for the Croatian Parliament to come to the draft law, which was considered unserious in the first reading because some clubs from the ruling majority said it was unprepared, that the government was undecided, and I said in the first reading that it was inconclusive. And now it turns out that he's funny and funny because we see that a lot of clubs saying that the law is unprepared because we see that there's no real analysis or how many protected tenants, or how many real owners, or what the wishes of these protected tenants are, in which way individual cases, are not all the same, want to solve their problem. No real analysis was made, although it was required in the first reading and was promised from the promoters to the second reading that this analysis will be made and that it will come out with concrete proposals. It is very little since the first reading debate and therefore such dissatisfaction is both with the SDP Club and the HSS Club, including the SDSS Club. And I believe that there will be more clubs that and individuals who, in individual debate, will say that this law ultimately does not solve problems. And the state, according to us from HSS and by me, can't move the ball now to the courtyard of municipalities and cities. Because the former state and former governments inherited the problem and it is their turn to keep the state involved and to solve the problem. It is our suggestion that two Ministers Marić, Goran and Zdravko have the opportunity to solve this problem primarily through the Ministry of State Property to finally know how many states of dwellings, state dwellings, and to solve the problem from this fund and from the tenants and owners. There are models and you can make a quality model to solve this problem from this fund of state dwellings, not that the state deals with renting state housing. Well, it's not the role of the state, it's to solve the problems of its citizens, and we have disgruntled both tenants and owners, and it could have been resolved from these housing funds. And another Mr. Maric, Zdravko, Minister of Finance, to finally find out how much money is paid into the state budget and budget of municipalities and cities through the payment of social housing. And why this fund did not solve the problems of our fellow citizens, or there is still enough resources to solve it, and it is our proposal that the very financial revenues of the state, municipalities and cities solve the problem and the tenants and owners. These models are not elaborated at all, and therefore we say that the Law is unprepared but that protected tenants are referred to the possibility of having an advantage in solving their problems through POS apartments. So where are the POS apartments? Only so far have 75 local self-government units participated in the process. What about the others? Are we going to send people who have this problem in Vukovar, Vinkovci, Brod or Novi Gradiška to Zagreb, Rijeka, to move? Is that a suggestion? They're being instructed to go on loans. Well, it's already said here that they can, at all, not that there's been an analysis of how many people who want to go into a credit programme at all and whether they're credit-worthy people who have a pension, who have 70 years of life. And it is particularly interesting to suggest that they are directed to homes for the old and the powerless, that they will have an advantage. It is our policy of the HSS that we all have equal rights, equal opportunities. And you already have citizens over 1,000 of them waiting only in Slavonski Brod order and a place in a home for the old and powerless. So have you done an analysis of how long it will take such places and if you have predicted the possibility to build another home for the old and powerless in Slavonski Brod, Novi Kapela, Vinkovci or Vukovar for these people. You're not. This is why the Law is unprepared and therefore it is not good to propose such solutions that are in practice inexplicable and that will make further irregularities or we will not be all equal before the law again and we will not have all equal opportunities. For these reasons, especially since units of local self-government do not have all the same fiscal capacity and are not able to participate in POS. This is what I said in the debate about this Law that the Agency did not buy land in one unit of local self-government in Slavonia and publicly equipped it so that these units of local self-government could participate in the construction of POS apartments, and especially on the units of local self-government from fire, civil protection, here now the Minister of Health suggests that units of local self-government participate in the cost of providing health services to citizens, attracting doctors, building apartments for the same. Well, it's all nice, just how come so much money for municipalities and cities that don't have enough for their own functioning or for development projects. Then let's secure a fund for this purpose to help these units of local self-government that can't do it. We haven't even done an analysis of what local self-government units are where there's a problem with how many of these people and how much money it takes. That is why we propose the only possible solution, which has already been said here that this Law goes into third reading, that these analyses be made in the meantime and that fairer solutions are made and that no citizen feels injured that his right to property has been violated or that his right to a home is violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88905	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mr Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll give up the debate since I think I said everything on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88907	The second is Mr. Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88908	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. So here's this final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Renting Apartments represents, by my deep conviction, one of the only possible sustainable solutions at present the best that the state can implement taking into account both sides' demands. I would personally be much happier when we analyze the whole state, the problems, the number of these people and that this issue has been resolved in the past. We see that all governments have rejected him, transferred him, and it's easiest to opportunistic to move the ball tomorrow to someone else, but this government has had the courage to put it on the agenda and find a solution. I would also like to see this issue resolved by introducing an asset censorship that would significantly address the problem that would include both income and real estate, so apartments and apartments and all other incomes that have protected tenants. I think that the main issue would be resolved, and that would be the cheapest for the state, and also for taxpayers, because if that were the case, there would be a small number of the most vulnerable people in both the old age and those who do not have the opportunity to resolve the issue. So for these five years, which have been put as a transitional period, although protected, although the owners of the apartments have requested that the deadline be reduced, so it has been left to the period, unfortunately since our last debate that we have new judgments of the European Court and that our state must practically involve resolving such issues and these 5 years, practically, the tenants have the right to sue the state and to take significant funds. I therefore believe that the state budget was the most economical, fairest solution to the introduction of this property censorship, but we are where we are. We are practically faced between the pressures and Europe that she has imposed on us, when we have already been unable or able to get the strength to solve this issue here today. So I find it strange that today there are some in this House that are calling again for some new nationalisation, who are looking for the state to take on all its obligations, so Croatia certainly, because of the unresolved issue came under the increased supervision of the Council of Ministers and I congratulate the Government for taking up power and putting this on the agenda, and those who are calling for new nationalisation had a chance in their governments and authorities to solve it, surely this is a big problem, and regardless of the satisfaction, the dissatisfaction of both sides, this is a good way for me to start solving this point, and we will see through its tomorrow realisation specifically how it will be implemented, what problems will be, and I suggest that we start solving these issues as soon as possible, that the country has less costs, and that people, and both sides, come out of the many years of agony they are pushed into. It is unfair that this issue is being pushed through for so many years, that so many are corrupting rights that do not belong to them, and that on the other hand, so many are taking away what they are legally entitled to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88909	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica has a Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88910	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Skoric. They said that, right away in the introduction, that this was the only possible solution and that so far was the easiest way to move a ball. I think in all things, when we have two opposing sides that are guaranteed by the Constitution, and the right to the apartment and the right to ownership, then it's always the best solution when everyone's equally unhappy because you can't make one side satisfied, the other one isn't, when there's two different sides. I think that's what went on and on and on and on, and I'd agree with that. I think even with protected tenants, the problem is that they most often dispute the way they acquire the property of their owners, not this law itself. And what's very important is that no one will end up on the street. So what's the problem is that people have already started, when you've been living around for 30, 40 years, to think it's part of them and their property and I can understand it. But I say once again, we must reconcile the opposing sides in a way that they are equally dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88911	Time. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88912	Thank you, dear Vice President. You said two interesting sentences, you said that you would also like one real analysis of this situation, as many of our colleagues mentioned here in their discussions. To do a law without serious analysis is unserious and points to that, i.e. She implies it's because of someone's interest. When it's unprepared, without serious analysis, it goes into something, so there's some narrow interest in what it's doing. The second sentence you said, the pressure of Europe. Well, we're Europe, too. Are we going to succumb to all the pressures of Europe, and then who's going to pay for it? Republic of Croatia, taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia will pay for the pressure of Europe. Well, we don't have to take every pressure from Europe literally as an order, but we are Europe too, so we can make our own decisions that may sometimes not even be right for them, as Orban does in Hungary, which has proved to be very good. And it is already being followed by more and more EU leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88913	Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88914	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I didn't say there was no analysis, I was only saying that I would be happier if an asset censorship of protected tenants were made and that through the data they would get from it, that they would have a more complete picture and that they would solve many problems. Of course, it would be to the detriment of just those who have money and I don't think people like that should be protected, I have the knowledge that there are people who have monthly incomes and 50 thousand kunas and real estate in their possession and so on, and here we are discussing how to further protect these people. And on the subject of Europe, it is sad and sad that people who have been kicked out of their apartments for 70 years, that we have not had the strength here in 28 years of Croatia, but Europe must practically solve the remains of communism in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88915	Thank you. Now it is Mr. Josip Djakic's turn in an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a law before us that will correct in the future some of the injustices committed in past times and property as a right arising from the law of the Constitution is undeniable. In some statistics, however, users who are protected are referred to as persons who own one, two, or three apartments. Statistics say that out of 1803 users of protected tenants or 35.99% have their own apartment or house. And he's still living in someone else's house. And the state pays him protected... And now we increase it even more to satisfaction the owner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That 316 or 10.50% of them have two own apartments or houses, and they live in someone else's house. That 105 or 3,49% have three apartments of their own. And imagine what these injustices are like by comparing the current laws when they're still allowed to use them for 5 years. I hope by this law we don't allow these. Those who have property owned and live in other people's homes, and the state pays them for it, so they must be immediately evicted without the Living Wall or with the Living Wall, with their obstacles, barricades and objections, with their costs that they put on the team of those who move out, the Living Wall as such should probably think about the damage they have done to those so-called. Saved. ... up to 75 000 and 100 000 kuna intervention police, workers, eviction trucks, etc. But that's a different story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So almost half of these protected tenants actually solved and used the benefits of the state for years. The other half I believe that there are those who, in their late years, are incapacitated, indifference, with small incomes, social services, and they should certainly, as provided for by this law, protect them, enable them to live their lives in suitable areas, allow them to be helped by the state in every way and by housing in new apartments in order to live their rest of their lives in normal conditions. But those who used the state, I would even say that they should be questioned and prosecuted because they acquired property, loaded into their pockets, and not considering the damage to the state in this way. That's what we can discuss today. It shouldn't be worth five years to them, Mr. Vice President, almost immediately, to the decisions to stop them from having the right to property. This also applies to Croatian defenders who are also 19 users of this privileged or guaranteed rental and for them the ministry has pledged to pay the price of costing rent and this increase. So I think that we are clearly talking here about the injustices that have been made over the ownership of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that this was clearly defined by the European Court of Justice, that those who are residently unsettled and in II. The world war or the flood is left without its property and situated in apartments belonging to some owners, it's really high time that after so many years we end up with this epic, and I think this law is quite liberal because it hasn't listed everything I've talked about but I welcome the adoption of this law because at least in the next perspective it will resolve the dilemmas of ownership and allow the owners to enter their premises in particular 50% of those whose apartments are the ones who have secured themselves and their families through one, two or three properties that they own. The state must know about this, it must have concrete evidence and every one in the state institution must act on this and deal with such a problem of using state money to the detriment of Croatian citizens. I feel like I'm speaking in a clear dictionary about the problem that this law is dealing with, but here I am also stressing what happened over the past 60 years and regretting those who really dream were taken care of as victims of II. The world war, which had no place to go, whose house, the apartment had been torn down, and who were really in extreme need using other people's property, but it was too far away for years to be reasonable that they were still there today, if they hadn't found all the other options that were offered to be taken care of. I believe this law has the best intention of not damaging anyone but having the property return to the hands of those who actually have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88917	Thank you, too. There are several replicas, but before that, respected MPs and MPs, I am extremely pleased to welcome the delegation of the Committee on European Integration of the Assembly of Montenegro led by Committee President Adrian Vuksanovic, who is visiting the Croatian Assembly in return, please welcome them with applause and welcome. Now we continue with the replicas, the first is Mr. Lenart. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88918	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Djakic, I agree that injustices should be resolved but if we solve injustices in a way that we create other injustices, then we have done nothing, and here it is obvious that such a situation will arise. In this country, there's been a lot of injustice in these 27 years. One of these is this injustice that has not been solved, so the injustices that have been done by privatising Croatian companies, companies that have failed, and then it has resulted in injustice for those who are digging through containers today. So there's a lot of injustices to be solved, but injustices need to be solved so that one group to which we solve injustice doesn't again do harm to another group to which we're going to create some new injustice, and there's likely to be more injustices than before. The injustice is a very broad notion, and solving injustice is not an easy job, but to avoid again and here being wronged that those who are HDZ and HNS will remain in the apartment, and they are all out of the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88919	Answer, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88920	Thank you very much. Well, I think I've been clear and specific. What do injustices apply to? 50% of those who own their own property. For those who are really in a uncertain situation, inability, social problems, material problems, for them the Law regulated how they would be solved. No one's on the road. If you had read the law properly, if you had entered his matter, in his conjecture and possibility, I believe we wouldn't have talked this way by heart. It's an injustice when you take away someone's property and you don't give them the right property for 60 years, and you're still costing them, you're amortizing their property, you're not paying for it, and you're still making it so that they can't come and see their property almost. That's injustice. It was happening and it's happening today that some of them have been holding on so much. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Mr. Djakic, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88921	Mr. Bunjac, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88922	Thank you, dear representative Djakic, for mentioning the defenses of the only home. Here today Live Wall has defended the home of 100% disabled Antun Zivkovic from Pula, an immobile man whom you and your majority wanted to throw out on the street. And you failed, you failed. You know how much it cost? Just the way of our President Sincic to Pula and back? Well, that was your only expense. And we'll continue with the defenses at home. As much as it bothers you because I know that all you care about is that people move out, that only you, Mr. Stromar and your anemic Prime Minister live in Croatia and that you actually consider Croatian citizens to be enemies of this country who, as you said, need to be prosecuted. So, in fact, you Croats would be prosecuted, driven out of this country's apartments just so that you could still get your fat parliamentary incomes and the other privileges you enjoy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88923	Thank you. Mr. Djakic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88924	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, your illegal act is also a felony. The prevention of an official in the exercise of official duty is from 3 months to 3 years in prison. I don't know why neither the police nor the DORH are using measures against you who have done hundreds of times wrong to those poor people who have come to an end and done even more damage to them with 70-100 thousand kunas of expenses you've paid them. That's what you did. Untie your bag and your salary and your party budget, pay them what you did or I invite them to sue you for coming there uninvited. 100% disabled must have my protection forever and ever. He's got an apartment for free, permanent, has all the benefits, as well as a car and an apartment and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88925	Time, time. Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, I agree with you that there has been a lot of injustice in this country throughout history, indeed, towards many people. However, my deep impression, not only of mine but of many people who sent emails and contacted us and all that with this law things are not fixed fundamentally... but also some old injustices are corrected in a way that creates new injustices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The best proof of that is precisely the amount of e-mails, contacts and everyone that we are only in the SDP club I am sure all other clubs received from people from all over the Republic on the subject of this Act and from people we really know are not those profits that have real estate and everything else you're talking about. My deep impression is that this Law will produce a series of new injustices that will again be discussed in this high house in some future period. My humble suggestion would be to try to complete the law and go with it into third reading, There you go. Thank you. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you, time. Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88927	Here you go, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88928	Thank you very much. Well, the third reading would be just buying time for those who have been using time for the past 28 years in Croatia or 27 years in the Croatian state and all that time in the former Yugoslavia. That would be a postponement of continued use, especially for these 50% I talked about that owns 1, 2 or 3 apartments. For these other 50%, for them the law defined the possibility of housing in the next 5 years protected and increased protected rent. Everything the law predicts is very good. I don't know where you see injustice. That these might run out of this 50% by 1, 2 or 3 hours. If you think it's an injustice, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88929	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Tomislav Sagar is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88930	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to highlight in a brief discussion a few things that seem important to me today, although I doubt it will change anything, so let's try to make amendments to this law that are difficult to fix because again my practice is being reintroduced and my transition to another. I'm only talking about this five-year term that's being put on and then another five years for those who are really the weakest asset. In fact, what we can all conclude is that two categories of people have been wronged. The first category is people who were deprived of property against their will, and the second category that in the policy of care of the then Socialist Republic were given tenant rights, which entered those apartments, even I believe that many of them did not take care of the origins of that apartment. Is this apartment confiscated or nationalized, so in the 1990s they could even be neighbors in the building, one group could buy an apartment at a favourable price until another group of tenants could do it. And if we refer to constitutional categories that is the right to home and property integrity, then we certainly have what the minister of conflicted interests said in the introduction. But from my point of view, both as a representative and as a man, the right to a home has an advantage over the right of ownership. It's my very personal attitude. And that's why this law seems to me not only unspeakable but it seems unfair to me, especially to the elderly population who at the moment, as the minister said in the introduction, some people have 70 years of age, there is no measure that will now protect them if after five years they are driven out into the street or if what I think is worse, they make them go to a nursing home. Let's not forget that it was people who worked and built this country, people who probably had most of them working hours, paying taxes, pension contributions, these people aren't guilty of having small pensions today, and then they still have problems. Of course not everyone is in such a situation, it is rightly said that the law does not know individual cases, but to me as a man if there is one such individual case this law is not acceptable. And what seems most important to me in this debate is that the state has to be just, the state has to set equal terms equal to the rights of all, the serious state cannot behave today we will be one, tomorrow the other, the serious state cannot forget the obligations it has made, the serious state can't say tomorrow turkey dot doesn't apply. The state took away people's property, the state gave other people the right to enter the apartment, and now the state says we have two sides that have conflicting interests. That's not true, let the state choose to take care of its citizens, that's the meaning and the task of the state. So why do we need a country if the citizens don't feel safe in it. Don't fool yourself that this isn't one of the reasons why people leave the country today, because if they see that there's no protection in elemental rights, and that's the right to a home that they'll believe in other things. If the 300,000 seem to me, let's say a few hundred thousand people could solve this problem, could buy apartments why the problem with 3,000 people is now, or maybe the problem is that the state has taken over the role of the judiciary in this case, the government of the Republic of Croatia, it might well be a solution to let the courts appear on each individual case, because if we look at one side and on the other, we have really suspicious cases I could say this, but we're not going to list them now because the idea of guidance must be the fundamental essence of the law, the fundamental essence of justice, which is that the most vulnerable allow protection and that they don't end tomorrow on the street. And that's why I can't vote for this law the most, because I'm afraid of it because we're talking about an older population with no measure, and neither the POS measure nor any other measure will solve their problem. The only problem for them can be solved if they are offered an apartment of such gauges in that city where they live, or possibly if the owner is depreciated in such a way that he leaves the apartment to those who are inside with some kind of one, I agree here what the law well foresees, an economically justified fee because indeed not everyone has the privilege of paying a small rent as it was in the case of this. But again, I stress, these people are not guilty of this situation brought by the state. I don't know if you agree with me, Minister. The state brought them in. They didn't make their own decisions, and the state can't hide behind that problem right now and say it's none of their business. I congratulate you as a minister that you have embarked on this, although in my opinion this law, many warn, should actually go to the Ministry of Justice, de facto this is about relations between two people in contracts, and it is the state that must stand in the protection of those who have brought them into these problems. This solution is likely to show, not tomorrow, but in the future, a solution that is not good because this solution is going to kill the tenants. Of course, none of us is the goal of having those who were wrongly deprived of their property not to be returned to them, but it must be solved by a state like the State did and done so. So personally I can't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88931	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88932	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar. A lot of things we can agree on in general and some things you've praised here and I think that's how it is. But I must point out that your personal experience of the home-rights championship is actually just personal. Of course, injustice hurts everyone. It hurts to see someone get an apartment, and you didn't. The injustice hurts when you know that someone has come to that apartment where you've been given a tenancy in some way that maybe some organs should be explored and that would be at different possibilities, of course that hurts those people. But we have two rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution, and we can't make differences here. That's because you said it belonged to the Department of Justice, so that was why nothing was done. In a government where you're part of that government, as well as a parliamentary representative, the Justice Department just refused to handle it, did not want... So I think again, just to finish, something had to be done, unfortunately not everyone could be satisfied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Time Mr. Curaj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88933	Thank you. And Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88934	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Curai, I must agree with you that it has been a serious time-out that nothing has been resolved and all governments have so far failed to deal with it. The question now is whether this government, too, would Minister Stromar come before us with this proposal if not for the ruling of the international court as he is. So this issue has to be resolved, there is no amnesty of any government. When I speak, my personal position, of course I'm aware, we can't have the same serious category of constitutional property, because everything else leads to anarchy, everything else leads to the principle that tomorrow someone can kidnap something and say it's mine. What's my basic thesis, it's the state that's been taking people, it's the state that's been assigning apartments, and it's the state that has to solve this problem now, and it's not like it's going to say you want to make a deal, because now we have two stakeholders, no. The state needs to find such a solution that will be acceptable to each other, and that's hard work, and that's where I agree, and I'm not happy with this job that's been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88935	Mrs. Comparic Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in most of my work, I can agree with you, and in the part where you said that your home advantage is above the advantage of ownership I cannot. I think it must be the same and that the state must absolutely care about both owners and the inalienableness of home. I can't help but think that this law was written in principle for only one category, and that's for those owners. So I'm worried about one thing, and that's that all this injustice is actually going to fall on the back of a local self-government unit. I'm asking a question here, the fiscal capacity of local self-government units that will have to secure a home for these people? So that's impossible, those people will meet on the street, no matter what we say here today. I really appeal to all of you people, these fellow citizens will be on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88937	Time, thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88938	Thank you, dear colleague Comparic Devcic. If I hadn't said in the debate, you've given me a chance to respond to the replica. I come from a small place in Slavonia, we have no problem with that. I think this is mostly a city problem. There are empty houses in Slavonia now, but no one will live in them because they can't, they have nothing to live on. What it is, nor do I have in my family someone who's a tenant, who owns it, I have no interest in it, I speak purely human and it's like an attitude. What the state has to worry about is the most vulnerable, and that's why I'm saying if there's one case. I can now imagine in some thought experiment by a university professor who worked until he was 70, living in that apartment he was assigned to, and now someone's gonna kick him in the street. So what kind of company are we, what kind of message are we sending? I think you should still, despite what... Perhaps more emphasis should have been placed on the courts, so let the courts solve each case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88939	Thank you. Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I'm signing everything you said. What bothers me in the proposal of this law, as it is said, is that the state must serve here to correct all the injustices in the society that have arisen, whenever they have arisen. But the problem with this story is that the legislator, as I am experiencing, has absolutely an understanding of the injustices that occurred in the past, but there is no understanding of the injustices that he is going to do today by passing this law to the people who live in these apartments today. And today the 50% that colleagues Djakic mention "positive" in these apartments are old people, in pensions, living in Split, Zagreb and large cities. Do you know how many square apartments are in Split? From 2000 to God ask how many euros. Old people who live with pensions or how they live or the local community can't do anything about it. And my biggest fear is that these people will just end up like my colleague Comparic said, and that's what this law is right here pushing in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88941	Thank you, Mr. Paric. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88942	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm glad that you once again pointed out, colleague Paric, when speaking in the Republic of Croatia about illustration, imagine how current this topic was, why it didn't take place, why so many years had passed? You see, these kinds of existential things didn't work out, this is a matter of heritage, a question of what the state was doing, and the state can't behave what fits, and what doesn't suit us is going to be under the rug, so we're not going to solve it. I emphasized it, not even Minister Stromar is now the main culprit, he has now taken the opportunity to solve the problem. This problem should have been solved long ago, it could have been resolved more easily in the past. It's hard on him now, but what I resent about Minister Stromar, which he hasn't devoted much more time, even more effort, maybe if we'd gotten the exact data as much as there are these speculators who bought apartments, so now they're looking for property and everything else that's important to know to pass a fair law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88943	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you were talking about how the state must be serious and I would agree with you, and indeed the thread is the owners of what was taken away from them, and it's not their fault that the tenants were assigned one such apartment. The long-standing injustice must be corrected and the disputes behind our necks must be avoided, but I'm afraid even injustice will be corrected and we can get additional disputes if we don't make sure it's for example. individual owners were subsequently granted and granted the right to buy out a social apartment because their apartments were not inhabitable. She would ask once again that the legislator consider not to come to new court disputes because in the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law and the Law on Resumption of Assets, the purchase of a social or nationalised apartment by the landlord or owner, is treated as damages to the owner, which means that they would exercise double rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88945	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88946	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev, so you have opened this aspect of the story and you see that it is a very serious issue, which is why I told Minister Štromar, not only myself, but also experts, however it is the Ministry of Justice, it is a serious problem. If court disputes are re-provoked, it will again be the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will pay the price. I agree with you, it should have been even more serious to approach this problem. Of course, it wasn't me, to point out, when you gave me the possibility of a replica, the honourable minister, so I'm not the one who wants this law to fail, but we all rightly fear that in many cases it will prove to be like that drop that spilled the glass, where many people who created this country will build, work, have small pensions, now end up on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88947	And in the end, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88948	Thank you very much. My colleague, Žagar, I would like to rephrase, on several occasions you mentioned the state is the country that brought about this situation, but you did not mention which state, this is the Croatian state, the former Yugoslavia, the former communist government has kicked people out of their apartments to reward, honor and leave them in these apartments, and we have brought us into this position and, thank God after 28 years, we still came to the position to resolve this issue. But today we are in a position that this issue cannot wait because the current law helmet for the judiciary that brings solutions in favour of the owner. The bill first and foremost tries to reconcile it, not to embarrass ourselves in front of Europe, so that the judiciary is ahead of us and that we have no legal basis to enforce regulations. So, in any case, it is unfair for the state to pay 90% of the value of these apartments, this Croatian government and this Croatian state to offer such a solution and to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88949	Answer, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88950	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleague Škorić, here's a thank you for the replica. I think I said at one point the Socialist Republic, so the former state has made such decisions that are not on the honor of today and proudly to all of us and this state of course needs to correct these injustices. What's a grudge, what's been going on for too many years, 20 years and a few years, it hasn't been solved, maybe it could have been solved then the cashier in these tenements that were in the nationalized apartments managed to buy it, and here's the number of certain people that didn't do it. It's been too long. If today we believe that these people were able to resolve their housing issue, we are probably deeply mistaken because they would probably have done so, and that is why I'm afraid it's vulnerable groups that are going to end up on the street because of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88951	Thank you. We continue with individual debates, Mr. Steve Culey, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr Branimir Glavas, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Ivan Pernar, finally on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88952	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have been fighting against evictions or violent evictions since 2012, the morning has been another such mirage, this time in Pula. It was a dejection of a man who was still actually in bed and Antun Zivkovic, simply lying in bed and they came to him today, if not for a living wall had come there, a man would probably have been deposed, thrown out on the street, which was actually a human tragedy. Why am I telling you all this? That's why this House Rental Act, if it goes as planned, will lead to the mass eviction of former tenants, later protected tenants and now unprotected tenants. We are in the Living Wall a party of debtors, parties of accomplished, parties blocked, and in some ways a party that represents the interest of displaced citizens. We call on the government to find a solution that is complete, meaning not a solution that will end with collective representations but a solution where what the people say, the wolf is full and the sheep are numbered. However, this government does not seem to want such a solution, or it wants to beat the whole situation over the back of protected tenants. It is known, then, that it is no secret that when people were buying apartments, that part of it was the purchase of these public dwellings, the state, or these public enterprises should go to a fund that would allow the care of tenants in private apartments, but the money disappeared according to that entrenched recipe, these apartments for private tenants were never bought and were subsequently left behind both tenants and tenants in a terrible situation, so they are not allowed into their own property. For 28 years, the state was unable to solve this problem and eventually decided to solve it 'k' like that Gordian knot, it simply cut it, what we're going to depose 5000 people, family, and that's it. We believe that it is not, not only is it not a perfect solution, but it is no solution, because it is easy what you are going to depose these people. Although you're going to give people apartments, it's not a problem to get the apartment back to the man who owns it, the problem is that the tenants are going to be left without, there's going to be a lot of people on the street, it's going to be older people, people who are 70, 80 years old, who are creditworthy, who are going to give these people credits. It's fantasizing. The idea that they'll pay, what you're suggesting is that commercial rent. So where is someone who has a pension of 2,000 kuna, that he will pay with a pension of 2,000 kuna, say, 1600 kuna rent or 2000 or a thousand and a half. Where, how, what do these people live from? And then we go back to that light motif of bottle pickers that you hide like a snake's foot. I always take pictures of it when I pass through town not because I make fun of these people, but because I want to show that there is an obvious problem, but that nobody cares. And as you don't care about those people who dig through the trash, you don't care about the people who end up decommissioned. And the only final result of this policy of yours will actually be that the living wall will have more work to do, even more action, that there will be more media circus, but not our will. Our wish is that the media circus doesn't come in this case. It is our desire to find a compromise solution, to give people alternative accommodation. But you don't care about it, and that's why I'm saying it's gonna necessarily come to a stretch, etc. There's gonna be a lot of work for the police. Of course you don't care, you're just in some movie of yours, in your world, and I'd actually cut this short. And with note, this was pointed out by my colleague, in Slovenia the state gave all the residents in private apartments replacement accommodation and solved the problem so that they were all satisfied. But in Croatia, obviously, there is, for the Borg, there is, for that military starter, there is for certain categories, and there is no for certain categories. Here, unprotected tenants became one of those categories. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88953	And now, in the end, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Predrag Štromar will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable and respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. I told Mr. Maras that without any intention of offending him, but I set an example for him to give his apartment to one of these people who needed it because that's the same case. These are private apartments and a private person must come into the property of that apartment. Well, that way we can all have someone in the subunity, and we don't think that's right, that the state has to deal with the problem first. This law solves injustice, solves the injustice done to the owners of the dwellings, but also solves injustice against the residents who are currently inside, and the state will get all the information really from those people who need it in the next year, we will have a real analysis. This Law, Art. I define Article 7. 8. A defined deadline of one year to register all those who are protected tenants and that the state with each individual goes to solve these problems. This Law allows us in many ways to resolve the housing issue, solve the home of those people who are certainly in need, and the state will prepare whatever it takes for these people to really have their own home, their own roof over their heads. The state must implement social policy, but I repeat again, not the private property of citizens. Private property of citizens should become the real private property of citizens. The owners must enter and dispose of these apartments. The injustice came 60 years ago, but injustice and doing nothing in the last 20 years. Since '98. We haven't done anything until today. We're not going to keep running from this problem because it's not about populist law. The SDP colleagues said they tried to settle it in 2002, but they gave up because it wasn't very populist. Here, 16 years later we won't give up. That indecision and the extension of injustice were financed by the owners of the apartments and we no longer have the right to do so. Who are the users of the apartments, how they got them, how many apartments, where they are, how many people are in them, we didn't discriminate about it, we said we'd take care of everyone. There's no ideal solution, and I totally agree with that, but it's got the best possible. This is the best we can do. We have secured an appropriate deadline, a gradual increase in compensation and time in which the state and protected tenants through different models can solve each individual case. At the same time, we gave the owners a deadline after which they could finally freely dispose of their assets. When you say that you are for the protection of private property, and then you do nothing to protect that property, and now that you have the right to vote again and the opportunity to vote for the protection of private property, you reject it. I think it's hypocritical. Even the tenants live in suspense all these years of what the law will be and whether it will be protected. And now they'll know what their options are for solving the housing problem. Of course, not all protected tenants are credit-worthy and therefore we have the co-operation of the state and the units of local self-government, we have a project POS for rent. We can amend the Law that you changed two weeks ago, the Law on Encouraged Apartmentry, we can make a special line of POS for rent, a special line for depending on how much it will take to solve the housing issue of current protected tenants. One year of application and four years of time to build apartments and we'll build them. This country will do it. Mr. Bunjac, this law is not a question of my masculinity, you'd be a great man, so by private property citizens beat up social policy. You can't do that. I invite you to be a man and you to say it, and then you solve at least one problem with your family property. The five-year-old is there not for someone to run away from the problem, but to offer a right, sustainable and possible solution. This law is in line with the provisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This law is primarily about solving injustice and then fulfilling legal obligations. You would have made a decision by the Court of Human Rights paper boats when it suits you, but when a decision of the Constitutional Court suits you, you use that decision for your own benefit. You're against European law, against vaccination, against loans, sometimes. Sometimes you're not when you take credit. This law is fair, it is sustainable and it will solve what no one has solved so far. I have to point out once again why we're going into these amendments to the law. With these amendments to the law of the Republic of Croatia, the problem of legal voids that existed for 20 years will be resolved in a fair and sustainable manner. This means that we've been correcting an injustice that's been going on for decades. These amendments to the laws strike a balance between the conflicting interests of the tenants and the tenants. The owners of the apartments, the tenants, get the exact date when they can fully and freely dispose of their real estate. The date will be September 1st, 2023. It is these amendments that we are harmonising the law with the highest courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights and our Constitutional Court. This puts an end to potential lawsuits and damages because we permanently resolve the housing issue to the tenants and enter into possession of the employers. I suggest you vote this law, it is necessary for Croatia, it is necessary for both the most motifs and the tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88955	We've got a few replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88956	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, once again to be pointed out for the Croatian public, you have now said this in the introduction of the closing word, not the tenants kidnapped the owners' apartment, not the tenants. The state kidnapped the owners and then gave it to someone to use in the form of housing rights or otherwise. So, the tenants are the same victim, we're talking about the former state, the Socialist Republic. Both are the victims of the state's decisions. And that's why I find it difficult to ask for a solution so that you say that a balance is sought between conflicting interests. It's not about interests. The problem of kidnapped property needs to be solved by the state because it kidnapped him,... The Republic of Croatia based on the Constitution and the same problem of people who will remain on the street. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad you're saying that every single case will be solved, I'd like them to guarantee me now that no man who's in a difficult situation, who has a small pension, will end up on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88957	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88958	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, this very amendment to this law allows us to allow you to say that I guarantee your leg, which is that no one will remain on the street. Everyone's gonna have a roof over their heads, we're gonna solve all the problems. I agree with you, the injustice was done in the '40s, '50s, '60s, the injustice was done in the '90s. We must correct the injustice. With this law, we correct this injustice, we allow all the problems that both the tenants and the tenants have, we open up space to solve all these problems, of course, in an individual way, we know that there are different situations as to how someone came to the apartment, which the need has, we have four great opportunities in these amendments to the law, from POS, from the right of the championship to homes, the right of the championship to sell apartments, the right of the championship to sell state and local housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88959	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88960	Thank you very much. Minister Stromar, so you continue to deceive the public of the stories that we are seeking, or opposition, the tenants to take over this burden of state. I remind you once again that there are dedicated funds, so people bought apartments and still buy apartments every month and the state budget gets about 30 million euros each month. So it's not about the state or citizens having to give something but you should spend the funds coming right from former residents in social housing. And you're telling the public here that the protected tenants are satisfied, give me one that will say he's pleased with this law of yours. Here's your seat upstairs, so let's go ask them with this bill of yours. Do not speak falsely but clearly say that you have sided with one side and that this is your final decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88961	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88962	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I repeat, the objective of this law is to resolve injustice, solve injustice by means, by means of state resources. Budget funds, not private funds, from citizens from their apartments. We're opening up space, no one's going to be decommissioned, you're not going to have anything to do in five years because we're going to solve housing issues and rent-a-cops and let the tenants get into their apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88963	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88964	The Honorable Chairman, so I would like to say that there is an obvious problem in what Minister Stromar says like this, we will first pass the law and then we will do an analysis. Well, I guess it would be normal in a normal state to run an analysis first and then write the law. The second thing, you're saying there's no systematic solution, no, but we're going to go every case in case, but when it comes to hundreds of migrants, asylum seekers who send us here to Croatia, then the government doesn't say we're going to discuss every case separately, but it says to all these people we're going to give free state flats and we're going to pay them direction. So people who come, not to say fall from Mars here, who have nothing to do with Croatia, the state pays them free rent and directors and has a collective solution for them, and for its own citizens there is no. This is a great civilizational disgrace to what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88965	Thank you very much. Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88966	The Honorable parliamentary representative, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, has an analysis. The analysis was made according to all available data, but one part... It can't be public, it's the Personal Data Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this law, we made it possible for anyone who wanted to help him solve his housing issue to report within a year when we would get all that information, we opened up a space to solve all the housing issues of all the tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88967	Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88968	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I think you've detected certain things both for me and for all of us, no one here is meant to have someone left without a roof over their heads. I haven't heard much of an alternative here, except that someone's been granted housing rights and housing, and now the state needs to give it back and thus put it in a better position than those who are raising loans and buying apartments, which, of course, it can't again, so we can't do that. What's important is that no one is on the street, that we have a five-year deadline to reach agreements in a year and respect both rights, and the right to home and property rights. And in those five years we can regulate everything, that's a good point. And there's no hysteria, there's no raising the team to people, there's no problem, there's no conversation and there's no solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88969	Time, thank you. Mr. Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88970	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates. This law, if you have listened carefully to it, you who are skeptical, have understood if you do not think tenoriously or interestingly, corrects injustice towards the real owners, but it is fair to protected tenants, in particular, you have heard the message of the minister that within a year they should report to the ministry and the ministry will then decide which model will be the most important and easiest to take care of because many tenants have a lot of real estate, property censorship, but it is not yet included, but of course the ministry will discuss it. So no one's gonna get thrown on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88971	In the end, Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88972	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Namely, this law is a legal framework that opens up the possibility, solves a long-standing problem that has been tried, failed to resolve, no adequate solution has been found. And it primarily gives the possibility, i.e. the form that both the most fashioned and the tenant, if there is an interest in agreeing on an exact identical apartment, the same apartment where the tenant is. You said that the state would allow for resolution in a way that no one would be left without a roof over their head, which is certainly a social state, respects the Constitution, the right of every citizen, but we must also not forget and forget, regardless, that ownership is a constitutional category, private ownership is a constitutional category.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88973	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88974	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. Yes, this is one framework that solves the great injustice that has been done to our people and to that socialist system, but also to those for the first 10 years in modern Croatia and sovereign Croatia. And with this framework, it is also possible for the tenant and the tenant to agree. To keep the tenant in the same apartment, to pay the fair price of the market rent, but also to have the right to buy the apartment first, if the owner of the apartment wants to sell the apartment, first he must offer it to whoever is currently inside, the currently protected tenant. I think we are really solving a great injustice that has been happening in Croatia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88975	No more speakers, that concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88976	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.10 HOURS]] We move to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Renting of Apartments, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 293. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. We're moving on to an amendment statement. The amendments were submitted by the Representatives' Club for Croatia, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA and SDSS's Club of Representatives. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to request a representative of the Proposer for an indication of the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Zeljko Uhlir. Moving to Amendment No. 1. Advocacy Club independent of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(2) Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88977	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because this would change the concept of the whole law on the proposed law in the section relating to the gradual reduction of the rights of protected tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88978	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88979	Therefore, the proposed provision that we wish to amend by amendment is in the antimigration of the systematic provision of Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the right of ownership. The provision and the law actually restricts the right of the owner to freely dispose of his property. Furthermore, this provision is contrary to the principle of equality between the parties and the constitutional principle of equality before the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The owner's racketeering by the tenant. A similar provision included the '96 House Rental Act. so the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished the proposed deadline from the amendment, so our amendment is August 31, 2023, which is the last day when the protected tenant has that status in private-owned apartments. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88980	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. Moving to Amendment No. 2. The representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club shall be represented in Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88981	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because it is considered that the proposed increase is not sufficient in the context of a gradual increase from a protected lease which, according to the concept of the proposed law, should be brought closer to the freely agreed lease and the fulfilment of the part of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 6th paragraph of the amendment is not accepted because the proposed erasure would unnecessarily result in numerous and long-term litigation cases at the level of the increased protected rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88982	Thank you. Dear fellow Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88983	I don't understand now, are you just commenting on this amendment 1 or on Amendment 2 to Article 2 immediately? So this one for an increase in rent and this one to throw people out on the street in five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88984	Dear Bunjac, so Amendment No. 2. of your club, as amended by Article 2 of Article 11a, Article 28a and Article 1 and Article 2 thereof, as amended by Chapter 11, Article 28(6).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88985	So both amendments stop?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88986	One amendment that makes up these two... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88987	So the one that increases the rent, right? So we are opposed to raising our rent by double because the cost of life and inflation cannot cover that increase, and in fact, it will already happen that one part of the protected tenants will not be able to pay the rent and we believe that this increase is too fast, too hasty, too little thought, and for this reason we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88988	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Moving to Amendment No. 3. Representatives' Club for Croatia, as referred to in Article 28(1). Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88989	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed increase is too large in the context of a gradual increase in the protected rent which, according to the concept of the proposed law over 5 years, should be brought closer to the freely agreed rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88990	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88991	So, our amendments, this particular amendment, we ask that the owner be fully charged with the market value of the owner must be paid immediately and not for 5 years, in accordance with the powerful judgments already passed by the Croatian courts on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Statileo case against Croatia on 10 October 2014. So it's the starting date for those 5 years, 2014/2019. A year. As one of the arguments for this amendment, we present the fact that ownership of owners has been limited for almost 7 decades as well as the owner's loss of profits during this past period and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88992	Thank you, dear colleague Hasanbegovic. Moving to Amendment No. 4. A representative club independent of Croatia in accordance with Article 28(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88993	Thank you. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or the gradual approximation of the freely agreed lease.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88994	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88995	... I remind you again that Croatian courts are already making final judgments, and in the event that this amendment is not accepted, the new rulings will be based on the new judgments of the countries, regardless of this so-called so-called so-called State. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. [[Specially enabled.]] So, we're looking for, I repeat once again to the rightful owner, with the law in force, to start paying full rent, which we have indicatively assessed and according to the judgments of Croatian courts on 5 times the rent of the existing so-called so-called so-called. protected rents at the moment. Thank you for asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88996	Thank you, dear colleague Hasanbegovic, we are moving to Amendment 5 of the Independent Clubs for Croatia, in connection with the article. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88997	Thanks to the amendment, it is not accepted because the proposed law must also apply to protected tenants, since it is the same under the Law on renting apartments to pay the protected rent and, as such, it is introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88998	Thank you very much, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u88999	So, we're looking for erasing from the entire bill, the concept of so-called. a protected tenant. So, the concept of a protected tenant has become a law on the housing relations of the socialist Republic of 1985. By retaining it, therefore, that concept creates legal confusion and retains a legal delinquent from Yugoslav Communism and misunderstanding of provisions including their application. So, I'd be interested in a respected secretary of state, if anyone knew one in reality, so-called. a protected tenant. I believe in real life that there is no such thing as a so-called "RH." Protected tenant and requesting a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89000	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 6 Advocacy Clubs for Croatia, in connection with Art. 28. B item 1, here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89001	Thank you, the amendment is not accepted. It is also a protected tenant with regard to the provision in question, representing a category to be taken care of by the State and as such a concept exists in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89002	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89003	So the arguments are the same, the state needs to take care of something that exists, in something that doesn't exist it can't care about everything and that it will and we ask for once again to delete the concept of protected tenants as a relic of the SR Croatia's housing law from 1985 from this legislative proposal. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89004	Thank you very much. We move to Amendment No. 7 of the Independent Clubs for Croatia, in conjunction with Article 28 B, paragraph 2, here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89005	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, as well as the previous protected tenant, which is in mind, represents the category that exists, the term is introduced into the law and must be taken care of by the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89006	Thank you very much. Comrade Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89007	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 8. The SDP representative's club on Article 2 in conjunction with Article 28 C, please see Mr Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89008	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, as the proposed provision is contrary to the concept of the proposed law in the section in which a gradual increase in the protected rent is introduced, with a view to adapting protected tenants, new circumstances and part of which allows the owners of the apartments to enter the property after a maximum of 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89009	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment protects the right of the tenant, which abolishes the status of the protected tenant, in order to continue to use, under market conditions, an apartment that is first resident with tenant law, then protected by the tenant, for decades on a continuous basis. This would protect their right to a home from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the international Convention on Human Rights, which the European Court of Human Rights has also declared to be a violation of their right to a home from the dwellings in which they have lived for a long period of time. 8 paragraph 1 of the Convention, which is why the Republic of Croatia is fined with a high amount of money. ... and others against Croatia and other judgments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This verdict is completely disregarded by the draft law. At the same time, this amendment corrects the legislative shortcomings indicated by the European Court of Human Rights, in relation to the injured rights of the owner of the dwellings, in particular, this amendment removes the legislative lack of a time limit in relation to the protection of the rental system. This amendment also lays down criteria for establishing the level of freely agreed leases and frameworks, which is fully in line with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of the Staitleo v Croatia, which the applicant cites as the main reason for the amendment of this law. The Court of Human Rights in the judgment of Statileo v Croatia, strictly states that the states signatories of the Convention have the right to take special measures to protect the rent and introduce control over the amounts of the rent, and to reduce it below the market value. The Court clarifies that such measures are often measures, which aim to protect the tenants and reduce the amount of the rent, because of the economic interest and the reason that market rents are unacceptable from the point of view of social justice, i.e. general interest. In particular, this amendment removes the legislative deficit from the judgment of Statileo not the appropriate level of protected rent... legal financial burdens imposed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89011	Thanks to my esteemed colleague, Bauku, we move to Amendment No. 9 of the Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, please welcome article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89012	Thank you very much, the amendment is not accepted, because that would not result in the basic purpose of the law. This is to prevent the owners of apartments from being freely available and the conditions laid down in the European Court of Human Rights ruling are not met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89013	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89014	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the idea of throwing people on the street is just a monstrous team before there are people who lived in one break for three generations, some who moved into their apartments as a family even before II. World war and it is truly amazing that in the EU country, which is considered polite and civilized, in which we have several tens of thousands of empty properties, we will now create homeless people who have never been before. Homeless people are a product exclusively of HDZ, SDP and HNS. It is therefore necessary to respect the agreement on the succession of the former SFRJ states, which determines that the rights of citizens are determined by the state that was in place in 30.12.1990, and at that time all those who lived in the so-called ‘citizen’. the social housing, either in the one with the nominal owners, were evened out in rights. Protected tenants lost their rights only in 1996, which means that the contract is not respected. Also, all the owners of social housing were investing in a housing fund and those who managed to buy out social housing, 300 000 of them, their assets were intended to be spent among other things to address the issue of protected tenants. You've spent money and in the absence of a smarter solution, you're now breaking things across your knees so that even your coalition partners are laughing at you and you're thinking of throwing 3,000 families on the street, I'm asking if you can look into those families' faces tomorrow when you meet them on the street and you'll definitely meet them and be sure that you won't be a secretary of state again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89015	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bunjac: Yes.]] We're moving on to Amendment 10. Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia in conjunction with Article 28 C. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89016	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed provision is contrary to the concept of the proposed law in an act which gradually reduces the rights of protected tenants and which is necessary in order to adapt them to abolish the protected lease.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89017	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89018	... So keeping the provision on the so-called so-called. The first purchase is contrary to the Law on Property and other real rights restricts the right to ownership and goes to the harm of the owner of the dwellings. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Upadica Brkić: Kolega Hasanbegović, please microphone, thank you very much.]] Notably that provision of so-called. the right of first purchase has no clear objective and purpose other than to further restrict the owners of the apartments to freely dispose of ownership in unlimited duration. I remind you that in 1998, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished a much more well-founded right of first purchase for former owners of dwellings under the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, so to speak. Confiscated nationalized apartments and this proposal retains the first purchase for the so-called so-called. protected tenants and when they lose that status. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has found that the law of ownership can limit itself to a market fee only if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is unclear what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the former protected tenant has the right to buy first from the owner and it is unlimited after leaving and no longer lives in that apartment. In conclusion, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this case does not exist and the right of first purchase should be completely abolished. I'm asking for a vote, and with that, I'm announcing a proper constitutional suit, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89019	Thank you very much. We move on to Amendment number 11, Advocacy Club for Croatia in conjunction with Article 28.c. 2. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89020	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons in paragraph 1, which is the gradual transition of protected tenants to a new status.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89021	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89022	So, once again, I remind the binding European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Statileo case against Croatia, since 2014, it has established a deadline of 5 years, which is soon due to expire as an appropriate deadline for embezzlement in the Croatian legislation of the relevant legal instruments and regulations which will correct the injustices imposed on the owners of the apartments. These injustices should begin to be corrected immediately, do not extend them for the next five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89023	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. We move to Amendment 12 of the Representatives' Clubs for Croatia in conjunction with Article 28c(3). Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89024	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned but also earlier with the term protected tenant i.e. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89025	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89026	... Once again, the concept of protected tenant is the non-existent relic of the communist housing law, and here for bureaucratic reasons, we continue to be completely unwarranted from 1985 to today. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruding Brkic: Please, thank you.]] I repeat, we ask that the term "so-called" be erased from this law. a protected tenant as a legally non-existent condition. And that's what we're looking for a vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89027	Thank you very much. We move on to Amendment 13 of the SDP Representatives Club to Art. 2nd, 28th d., p. 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89028	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons already mentioned in the terms of the protected lease and the reserved lease right for an indefinite period because it is a gradual transition to a new status and the fulfilment of part of the conditions laid down in the European Court of Human Rights ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89029	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89030	The explanation for this amendment is identical to that of the previous amendment that we have submitted to the article. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89031	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bauku. Moving to Amendment No. 14. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in connection with Art. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89032	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because it is appreciated that the right of the first-ever protected tenant to an apartment in which he resides does not constitute a burden on the owner of an apartment that would reduce his right to free disposal of the apartment or financial or other acceptable meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89033	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89034	So I repeat again. The right of first purchase is contrary to the Law of Property and other real rights. Therefore, it is noticeable that the provision of the right to buy has no clear objective and it speaks for itself of common sense, a burden and a limit for the owner to have the full free will at his own disposal. In 1998, the Constitutional Court abolished already once in the context of the second law the right to purchase, here this right is maintained even though there is no interest in the Republic of Croatia that so-called. Protected tenants, when they lose that status, hold that right for life and in some way limit property rights in reality. I'm looking for a vote, and I repeat again on this, and I'm announcing a constitutional suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89035	I thank my esteemed colleague. Moving to Amendment No. 15. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in connection with Art. It's the 28th century, St. 1. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89036	Thank you. The amendment shall not be accepted, given that the amendment has not been accepted. 28 c, i.e. the need for a gradual transition to the new status of protected tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89037	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89038	... in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 2014 which clearly provides for a period of 5 years and if this Law had been adopted in 2014, then this procedure that you are talking about would be justified. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So that's what we're looking for a vote on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89039	Thank you. Moving to Amendment No. 16 Advocacy Clubs Independent for Croatia in relation to Art. 28 C. 2. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89040	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted, given that no amendment has been accepted. 28 c, i.e. It is reiterated that the need for a gradual transition to the new status of protected tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89041	Thank you very much. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89042	Thank you. I've put out the arguments and we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89043	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 17 SDSS representatives' clubs in relation to art. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89044	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted and amended in such a way that it now reads Okay. [[Intruding Brkic: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89045	Thank you very much. Amendment... And you've changed? [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89046	Thank you. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 28. e. St. 2 above the first sentence, words shall be added if the unit of local self-government does not have a residential fund or a liability to the protected tenant is taken over by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89047	Thank you very much. The amendment becomes an integral part of the Law. Let's move on, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89048	If we got a good plate, what the Secretary of State read was accepted the SDSS amendment, not in changed form. What's changed? If you can explain. Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89049	Go ahead, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89050	Thank you very much. Therefore, the original Club of Representatives of the SDSS reads, in Art. A new paragraph shall be added after paragraph 2. We say, in article 28, chapter 2 behind the first sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89051	All right. Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 18. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in relation to Art. 28 C, c. 3. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89052	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in the amendment of the Proposer to the Article. 28.a. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89053	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89054	The argument is the same, and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89055	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 19. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in connection with Art. 28 C, No. 5. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89056	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as previously mentioned in the previous amendment, i.e. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89057	Thank you. Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89058	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89059	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 20. Representatives' Club independent of Croatia in relation to art. 28. f, p. 1. Mr. Uhlir, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89060	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as in the previous amendment. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89061	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89062	Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89063	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 21. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in connection with Art. 28 g, p. 1. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89064	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89065	Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89066	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89067	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 22. Representatives' Club for Croatia in connection with art. 28 years old, No. 2. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89068	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as in the previous amendment. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89069	Thank you. Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89070	... the vote. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89071	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 23. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89072	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as in the previous amendment, i.e. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89073	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89074	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89075	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 24. Advocacy Club for Croatia in conjunction with Article 28h Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89076	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as in the previous amendment, i.e. It's about an existing concept that we have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89077	Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89078	Just because of the procedural reduction, I request a vote for all amendments requesting an erasure of the concept of so-called. a protected tenant. So it's up to Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89079	All right, you tell me about this one now, and when we get to that, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89080	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89081	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 25. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89082	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because such guarantees are not covered by the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89083	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89084	Therefore, since rentals are protected by the mahogany of people and older age, the right to use a grant for residential credit without additional State guarantee would be only formally and in practice inconclusive. One-time support for the purchase of the situation by means of its own resources shall aim to ensure that protected tenants available for part of the necessary means of purchase of the apartment on the market within a shorter period than the transitional period of 5 years give the apartment to the owner or buy it at a market price. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89085	Thank you very much. Now we move to Amendments 26, 27, and 28 and 29. An independent club for Croatia, which mentions the terms of protected tenants. Please Mr. Uhlir to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89086	Thank you very much. These amendments are not accepted because it is an existing concept that we must respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89087	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89088	Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89089	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 30. SDSS counseling club. For the EEA Joint Committee Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89090	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form, so as to read: ‘Article 28j shall add paragraph 5, which shall read as follows: the 5th protected tenant and the protected tenant referred to in paragraph 1 of this article for the reception of a home for older and powerless persons shall demonstrate his will.’
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89091	Thank you very much. The amended amendment shall become an integral part of the amendments. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We move to the 31st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89092	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the amendments to the proposals set out in the preceding Articles 28c, i.e. did not allow you to move gradually to a new status and comply with part of the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89093	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89094	So, as the Secretary of State said, this amendment and Amendment No. The 34th and 38th are related to our first amendment, which was in this table the amendment No. 8. As the reasons for the amendments we have proposed are the same, I would therefore like to draw attention once again to the fact that it is a matter of protecting the right to a home from the Republic of Croatia, the International Convention on Human Rights, in order to respect the judgment of Lemo and others against Croatia. In order to remove the legislative lack of a time limit in relation to the safeguarded lease system, the amendment would remove the legislative lack of a time limit. And so the State has the right to special measures to protect the rent and introduce control over the amounts of the rent and to reduce below the market value. We ask for a vote for this amendment and for amendments 34 and 38. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89095	Thank you very much. We move to the amendment if counterpart Hasanbegovic agrees on 32nd and 33rd due to this term, the protected tenant. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Mr. Uhlir, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89096	Thank you very much. Amendments, those amendments are not accepted for the same reasons as mentioned earlier, i.e. We must respect existing concepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89097	Thank you very much. A colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89098	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89099	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 34. The SDP representative club, as referred to in Article 2(2), in conjunction with Article 28(2) and (3). Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89100	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amendments to Article 28c, i.e. have not been accepted. It would not allow a gradual transition to new status and the fulfilment of the work of the European Court of Human Rights ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89101	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89102	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89103	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 35th and 36th choir of protected tenants. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89104	Thank you very much. The proposed amendments are not accepted i.e. the existing term must be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89105	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89106	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 37. It's a live wall and SNAG rep club. in conjunction with Article 4 and the amended Article 40(5) thereof, Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89107	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons, as this would make it impossible for the owner to be free of charge and which would be contrary to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89108	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89109	... So, Secretary Uhlir, you're saying that it is contrary to the judgment of Statileo. [[Specially enabled.]] But there is one more important rule of law, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is above any verdict by European courts, at least to me if it isn't for you. And in Article 1, paragraph 1 reads, the Republic of Croatia is a unique and indivisible democratic and social state. Now you tell me what kind of social state is throwing people into the streets. It's simply not about the legal gain, it's about the healthy brain. So putting people on the street and calling the state a social state just doesn't make sense. That's the worst American-type capitalism where you have 18 million empty properties in the United States and 4 million homeless. And if you gave every homeless guy five real estates, he'd still be left. So it's just something amazing. What interests of the hair led you to pass such a law brutal, extremely inhuman, illegal at the end of me is really not clear, but be sure that we will do absolutely anything to bring down your government first, and then this Law. So, as you call it, you've been painting for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89110	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear it.]] Moving to Amendment No. 38 SDP representatives' clubs in relation to art. 40. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89111	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted for reasons as this would make it impossible for the owner to be free of charge, which would be contrary to the judgment in the Statileo case against the Republic of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89112	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89113	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89114	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 39. Representatives' Club for Croatia in connection with art. 4. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89115	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because these articles are not subject to these amendments and additions to the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89117	Thank you. So it's about one more time, please, which articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89118	So, behind the article. Article 4 is added. 4 and on the date of entry into force of this Act, Articles 44 and 45 shall cease to apply. Amendment No. 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89119	So, once again... It is a matter of abolishing the right of first purchase to restrict ownership and, if this amendment is not accepted, we are also announcing a constitutional action in this regard. [[You can't hear it.]] We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89120	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 40. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, and in connection with the Article. Six. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89121	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in a modified form so that it is now read, in the article. 6, 1st century behind the word apartment or house are added words for housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89122	Thank you very much. We will see if the proposed amendment is accepted. Moving to Amendment No. 41. Representatives' Club for Croatia in connection with art. Six. Here you go, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89123	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because it would be about prescribing the retroactive application of the Law whose consequences are inconceivable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89124	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89125	So the proposed amendment makes it impossible to so-called. The protected tenant shall carry out the abuse of the Law through a fictitious transfer of ownership to third parties. Therefore, the provisions on ownership on the date of entry into force of this Act shall be replaced by the date of entry into force of the Law, the rental of dwellings which are thoroughly governed by the regulation of the rights and obligations relating to the rental and use of the apartment. Therefore, this amendment does not represent retroactive application but confirms the existing application of the House Rental Act. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89126	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hasanbegovic. Amendment No. 42. Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia in connection with Art. 6th, St. 2. Dear colleague Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89127	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed period of 3 months is too short for the necessary adjustments to the status of protected tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89128	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89129	So we hold that there's no reason to prescribe a six-month period and that a three-month period is more than enough for the tenant to provide the owner with the right to own the apartment. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89130	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hasanbegovic. This is what we've exhausted all the amendments. I thank the Honorable Secretary of State Mr. Uhlir for showing the amendments. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 a.m. voting on the debated points, followed by the presentation of the club's position, and then the debate on the remaining three agenda points planned for tomorrow's debate. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted in 19.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89131	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Renting Apartments, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 293, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The club of representatives of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The final draft law amending and supplementing the House Rental Act will be conducted. Please, on behalf of the motionary, honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željko Uhlir, give his testimony, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89132	Thank you very much. The proposed conclusion is not accepted for the reason that enough time has been considered, all public debates have been held, several governments have already discussed this proposal so that everything we had has been discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89133	Then I am voting on the proposal to conclude Cuba's representatives of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB which the government does not accept, please vote. I find that the proposed conclusion did not receive most votes. Now we're going to give a word to a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89134	Dear Mr. President, given the result of the vote, it is clear that there is not a sufficient number of MPs in the ruling majority to vote for this law and our only way to prevent this law from being passed is not to participate further in the vote on the law. And we call on all those other club representatives who are against this law to do the same. For this reason, we are looking for a 10-minute break and we are calling on all MPs who care about the rights of protected tenants not to take part in the vote on this law further because it is the only way to prevent this law from being passed. And those members of the ruling majority who are against the law by their remnant in the hall will allow such an unfair law to be passed. We're looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89135	I approve of the break, but we still have an arm in the air. Dear colleague Hrg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm looking for on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's 10-minute break on this bill and for the reason I'm here to publicly say that this is cynical what my colleague Bauk said. If you were responsible as an opposition, you'd be in here, and this law would go into third reading. And don't pull us on now and talk about expecting us to go out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89137	Comrade Hrg, it's not, this isn't for, explain what you want. You can ask on behalf of the club for a break to consult and do not pollemize with a colleague named Bauk. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89138	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, I am asking you nicely to take a 10-minute break on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU. It's about a law that caused a huge dispute in the public debate. I can't agree that there was enough time, obviously there wasn't enough time because the subject of third reading would be different. But what I want to say clearly I understand the impatience on this other side to vote for but what I clearly mean is, this law does not solve the problem of protected tenants, does not solve the owner's problem, it only extends it in 5 years and someone else and some other government, and in some other composition, in five years people who will be 80 or 90 years old will be evicted from apartments and today, and this has been discussed through two readings and will be voted on today. [[Intruder President: Please, colleagues and colleagues please!]] So it will be voted on by another government in another system to take responsibility because this law has not taken responsibility and this law has not solved what it was meant to solve, the problem of protected tenants and also lies to the owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89139	Okay. I'll take a break then, we'll continue at 12.50 minutes. MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS]] After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted an amendment on the basis of Article 199. Rules of Procedure. The amendment submitted must be agreed by the majority of the present representatives. I am voting on the proposal that the Government may submit an amendment after the debate is concluded. Please, let's vote. I find that we have agreed that the Government can submit an amendment after the debate is concluded. So I would ask the Government's representative to explain the amendment, which is with us a respected colleague, Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89141	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment allows for more quality implementation of the House Rental Act, since the laws protecting personal data are in force so that the 2011 census allows for further use only numerical data on the categories of tenants and not individual personal data. The proposed amendment therefore allows for more detailed data collection with a view to better quality implementation of the House Rental Act and more effective law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89142	After the government's representative's testimony, I'm opening a debate. Only club representatives can speak. Is anyone picking up? If not, I'll conclude the debate and put the amendments to the government to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 68 for, 8 abstentions and 2 votes against the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now going to vote on the other amendments, I remind you that we held a statement on the amendments at the session on 5 July 2018. The amendments were submitted by the Representatives' Club for Croatia, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA and SDSS's Club of Representatives. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. We're going to the amendments now. Amendment number one The government does not accept, let's vote please. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Please concentrate on everyone in the hall. We're going to Amendment number four, which the government doesn't accept either. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 6 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 7 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 9 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 10 Government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11 Not accepted by the government. Concentrate, concentrate a little. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 13 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 14 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 15 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 16 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 17 SDSS representatives' clubs have been accepted in an amended form, please showcase of SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89143	We accept it the way it's been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89144	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 18, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 19 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 20 Government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 21 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 22 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 23 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 24 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 25 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 26 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 27 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 28 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 29 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 30 Clubs of SDSS representatives were accepted in a change of form, so please show the club, fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89145	We accept as the government has formed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89146	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 31 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 32 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 33 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 34 The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 35 The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 36 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 37 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 39 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 40 of the SDSS Representatives Clubs has been accepted in a changed form, so please show the club one more time. It becomes an integral part of the law in changed form. 41 amendments The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The last amendment, number 42, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we move to a vote on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on renting apartments, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 72 for, 1 with abstention and 8 votes against, are passed the law on amendments and the addition of the House Rental Act. The Croatian People's Party Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats, HDZ Representatives' Club, National Minority Representatives' Club and the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformists and Independent Representatives' Club have proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion on measures to implement the Law on Renting of Apartments: 1. By 30 November 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt a programme for the implementation of the House Rental Act, which will provide for a sufficient number of dwellings under the Social Encouragement Building Programme or other apartments owned by units of local self-government, regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia, or to sell to any interested protected tenant, protected tenant and predominant tenant resident in an apartment not owned by a unit of local self-government, a unit of regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia by 31 August 2023 at the latest. In addition, the Government is obliged to take the measures necessary to enable the application of the Act on Social Encouraging Apartment Buying on the basis of the first purchase rights which have protected tenants under the House Rental Act and for the purchase of dwellings owned by units of local self-government, regional self-government unit or the Republic of Croatia by protected tenants, protected tenants or predominant residents. 1. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to draw up proposals for the programme and measures referred to in point 1 of this conclusion on the basis of the data collected, expressed interest of protected tenants, protected tenants and predominant tenants. 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall notify the Croatian Parliament without delay of the adoption of the programme of measures referred to in point 1 of this conclusion. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the clubs of those representatives. I find that most of the votes, 70 for, 8 abstentions and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89147	And now we move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on State Measurement and Real Estates The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 72 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Does the representative of the motionor, or Mr. Secretary of State, Željko Uhlir, want to have an opening statement? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89148	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman. The proposal of the State Measurement Act and the real estate catastro is the last time, has been in place for 10 years with 6 amendments. Meanwhile, new requirements of the real estate market and the resolution of property-legal relations have emerged in order to create preconditions for new investment and development of the economy and to develop technologies in the area of access and use of data to the national measurement of real estate catasters. The specific issues covered by the law relate to the state measure, the real estate cadastre, the infrastructure catalogue, the building register, the spatial unit register, the geographical name register, the jurisdiction and the performance of those transactions and the storage of the use of the state measurement data and the real estate catalogue. The adoption of a new Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Catastrophe shall establish or improve records and registers from the jurisdiction of the State Geodesy Administration, improve actions within the administrative field of state measurement and real estate catasters, the common information system of land books and catastras and electronic operations. It shall also ensure faster and more efficient access and use of up-to-date data from the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority. The law prescribes matters of state measurement from basic geodetic works, topographic measurement and production of state maps and measurement and labelling and keeping records of the state border on land. The establishment of a basic topographic base will ensure the production and maintenance of official state maps as well as the use and use of data to produce other official cartographic depictions. In addition, the area of the real estate cadastre is prescribed and until the production of a property cadastre in certain catastrian municipalities, i.e. to the subsequent translation of cadastrian particles into the real estate cadastre, the land cadastre will be maintained in a way that gradually adapts to the catastrophe of real estate. For those catastrian municipalities and cadastrian particles on which the relevant pre-conditions prescribed by this cadastrian congratulatory law will be brought individually from land cadastra to cadastrian real estate particles. The planning of operations in the field of real estate is planned through a multi-annual programme brought by the Croatian Parliament, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the State Geodetic Administration, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of Justice Affairs, which will ensure the restoration of the cadastrian opera and land books with an emphasis on extended construction areas. The quality of field measurement data, hunting points, borders and other limits of cadastar particles and buildings and other buildings will be ensured with a standard of accuracy of up to 0,1 metres. This contributes to the introduction of an increase in security in data that are part of the official records of the real estate catastra. The procedures in the catastrian measurement have been amended by introducing the process and presenting the data presented in the catalogue of the cadastral measurement to the persons shown in the elaborate, which will result in the acceleration of public-examination procedures, data collected by the cadastral measurement, and which is carried out by the Commission of the State Geodetic Administration at the same time as the procedure for establishing, renewing and supplementing the land book. The same will affect citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers and all other land administration users, thus speeding up and making it more efficient to put into use cadastrian operations and land books. In order to improve the quality of existing cadastrian plans drawn up by graphic measurement methods, the process of homogenising the cadastrian plans is carried out, which is a technical process to implement the positional improvement of the cadastrian plans and to correct the internal inhomogenicities of the Kadastrian plan and which has no impact on the data shown in the list-book part of the Kadastrian operat. Further maintenance of the common information system of land books and the catastra is prescribed popularly called ZIS, which is already in use in all catastrian offices. Persons who have the consent to carry out expert geodetic activities, the maintenance of catastras, land and real estate can apply in accordance with specific law for confirmation of geodetic elaborate by digital means, with the use of digital elaborates, which will speed up the review and verification of the elaborates. The register of buildings will be established as a record of all buildings and special parts of buildings built in the area of the Republic of Croatia and as such will have a spatial component. For the purpose of establishing a register of buildings, data from real estate, state measurements, register of spatial units, land books, records of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, data from works for construction according to specific regulations in the field of spatial planning and construction, and records kept by building managers and from other sources shall be downloaded and used. The jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority for the determination of home numbers is prescribed, with units of local self-government which have so far established and carried out by law conferred the power to continue these tasks. The competent authority of the State Geodesy Administration for the establishment, management and maintenance of the infrastructure catastras as well as the availability of infrastructure data and information on ongoing and planned construction works for the entire Republic of Croatia, which will establish a single and comprehensive record for the whole country. The units of local self-government that have established and implemented these jobs so far have been passed over to the authorities to continue to carry out these tasks. The improvement of the register of spatial units as one of the main registers creates preconditions for more efficient management and for the exchange and use of data registers, spatial units by other state bodies and entities. By improving the register of geographical names, the system of collecting geographical names will be upgraded, resulting in greater availability and eased use of those spatial data by other national authorities and other users. The law establishes an interdisciplinary body responsible for the standardisation of geographical names which will have the responsibility and competence of professional management of the problem of geographical names in accordance with international standards. The law lays down, the law regulates the conduct of electronic business for the publication of data from the records and documentation of the state geodetic administration, the availability of data through network services, which allows easier and more efficient access to data from jurisdiction. It is prescribed that the data from the jurisdiction are public unless a certain restriction is prescribed by some specific law. The creation of a digital archive system will solve the problem of difficult access to archive documentation of state measurement and real estate catastra and ensure that the data documentation from the jurisdiction is kept permanently. The translation of analogue construction into digital form is carried out in conversion centres at the State Geodetic Administration. Finally, the new law will achieve the following positive effects, ensure the achievement of the framework for the establishment of a central system for the construction, storage and distribution and data management of the infrastructure catalogue for the entire Republic of Croatia, the creation of a framework for the establishment of a register of buildings and parts of buildings, the creation of a framework for the improvement of the common information system of land books and catasters, the improvement of the register of spatial units, the improvement of the register of geographical names, the revision of business processes in catasters and teaching in land books in order to significantly reduce the number of procedures, the avoidance of double implementations resulting from current rules in catasterical and land book procedures. In the domain of cadastrian measurements, improvements are planned to affect citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers and all other land administration users, thus speeding up and making the process of putting them into use more efficiently. Furthermore, faster access to data will be ensured to improve the digital archive system and translation of existing analogue documentation into digital format. Normally, the process of issuing data from official catastra records will be regulated in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, the programme for the development of electronic services and e-Citizen projects via the Internet. Finally, the law improves the general processes of national measurement and real estate catastra and will achieve all the positive effects provided for in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89149	Thank you, too. And we have one replica, Mr. Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89150	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State and Associates. Catastar is a register of land and property of a state. The cadastre is not in line with the grantovnica, the cadastre marks the property, and the gruntovnica or land book ownership. Catastar is not reliable for the determination of ownership only serves to determine the state of the property on particles. Tell me, and this is more a question for the Director of the State Geodetic Administration, in fact, how much trouble is it with writing property in a land book because in the past it's been bought without a contract, so when you come to sign up for something you don't have a purchase contract, you don't have a gift contract, you have no confirmation of inheriting how many problems it creates?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89151	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89152	Thank you very much for asking. There are certainly problems and that is why the whole law is written from the outset to speed up processes, to simplify the processes and to make our citizens and entrepreneurs have as high a service as possible and so that no such problems arise in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89153	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mrs Bernarda Topolko called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89154	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Honored representatives of the government, respected MPs and MPs. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction at the 21st session held on 19 June 2018 discussed the proposal for a law on national measurement and a cataster of real estate, first reading, P.Z.E. number 363 which has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 14 June 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above act as a parent working body. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia also explained that the proposed law regulates the state measure, the real estate cadastre, the infrastructure catalogue, the register of buildings, the register of spatial units and geographical names. The responsibility and performance of those tasks and the establishment of the State Geodetic Administration shall also be governed. It stated that the proposed solution will revise business processes of cataster and land books and improve administrative behaviour, electronic business, common information system of catasters and land books, access to digital archives and others. Without discussion, the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next conclusion, the proposal for a law on national measurement and a cataster of real estate is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89155	Thank you very much. And let's open up a debate. First in front of the SDSS club Mrs. Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89157	Honorable Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's MPs and MPs. So before us is the proposal of the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty. As land books are known to represent the legal state of real estate in the Republic of Croatia and real and other relevant real estate rights are entered in the land books. In view of the public principle and the principle of trust and truth in the fullness of content data, land books protect fundamental property rights. They are the choice of ownership documents, allow legal traffic of real estate and adequate records of that traffic, and essentially form the basis of legal certainty in real estate transport. The catastar should be a unique record of the data in space, a unique record means that it contains all the necessary information on the so-called so-called "one-stop shop". Installations. Until now, when a user needed installation data, he had to ask for 4 to 5 or more public, private data and visit several places, which is unnecessary spending of funds and time. Instead of all being contained in one place and available in real time. The State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster is in line with a directive that obliges Member States to set unique information points to allow the availability of data on the existing physical infrastructure of network operators and information on ongoing or planned construction works. In fact, it harmonizes with the needs of modern society. Given the economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located, there are particular points to problems that are not up-to-date with land records and inconsistencies with the real situation in planning and carrying out new investments and investments in the economy, agriculture and transport. The use of EU structural funds involves organised information and orderly relations in space. It is true that to implement this Law, significant financial resources are needed. However, the losses and damages suffered by society due to the current state of land records are multiplely higher than investments in the handling of land records. Dealing with land records is one of the main challenges of the geodetic profession because there is no progress, legal and social security, and justice and legality without settled property-legislative relations. Croatia needs a register of the most valuable resource it owns, which is the space everyone would benefit from. In addition to investors, there are budgets of local authorities and state budgets, as well as citizens who will have greater security in the legal traffic of real estate and protection of acquired rights. The bill introduces a number of innovations and opens up new areas that have not been adequately prescribed so far. The new Law regulates the state measure, the real estate cadastre, the infrastructure catalogue, the building register, the spatial unit register and geographical names. The intensity of the new law is positive and good and gives direction in which the geodetic profession should continue. The land records are the basis of both the economy and the rule of law. In order for land records to make sense, they must reflect the real state of land particles on the ground. The current state of land records, due to various circumstances, does not generally ensure an identity with real situation on the ground, leading to numerous problems at the disposal and management of space. The problem is manifested through non-harmonised states and two existing registers. Catastro and garners on the one hand and the discrepancies of the legal situation in the area with both registers. Very often in practice data in cataster and land books were created during Austria-Hungarian and do not correspond to the real situation on the ground, which makes the main administrative obstacle to realisation and a real serious problem in the legal traffic of real estate. In some areas, we have a problem with land books that have not been settled since World War II, and they further make it difficult to rebuild houses, especially returnees. Not to mention that it has suspended the legal traffic of real estate and the economic development of these areas. It is therefore important to take care of areas of special state care and return areas when restoring land books. In fact, modern European countries don't even know the concept of so-called. Off-book ownership, and with us it's a reality because of a huge discrepancy with the real situation. The non-compliance of land books with the cadastrian state with respect to the number of particles, construction, surface and land shape, and all this and with the real state is a common known fact in the Republic of Croatia. It is specially designed in the areas of the coast and Dalmatia. I find it important to point out two characteristic examples of non-compliance of land books. In the area of the town of Ogulin for 17 catastrian municipalities, we have no land books. They were put out of force in 1995. Until the new cadastar measurement and renewal of land books, legal traffic is carried out through land cardboard, and for the formation of land cardboard it is necessary for the party to attach the correctness to the original, as well as a copy of the cadastar plan and historical extract from the cadastra. All of this, of course, costs and goes to the burden of proof in this case on the party. The following example is the Kadastrian municipality of Drežnica, which is one of the largest catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia on the surface, which has about 176 km square, of which about 70% of the area is under the forest. In 1995 the books were put out of force by a decision of the County Court in Karlovac, and it was not known until recently what state they were in and whether they even existed. When solving the problem of land books, care should be taken to ensure that land owners are not damaged. Namely, we have witnessed numerous court proceedings where real owners have lost their property, and some others have signed up as owners of certain properties such as the Drežnica memorial building, such as House of Culture, House of Youth, as well as private forests and similar. For the past 20 years, in various ways, natural and legal entities have signed up as property owners, while the real owners, of course, have had a problem in carrying out purchasing and leaving procedures, and enrolling in the book of contracted contracts. The area to which the lords of the Croatian forests, for example, has been increased according to Drežnica forest workers by about 3,000 hectares to the damage of private owners and during the period when land books were put out of force. We believe that the best solution in these cases would be to put into function the old land books, and supplementing them with changes in ownership in time from their cancellation to owners with the necessary documentation and data from books of contracted contracts, not to go into a new measure without land books because in that case the owners would be placed in an unequal position with the other participants of the measurement in the Republic. Evidence of ownership in disputes would be questioned because there is no documented evidence of ownership. The new measure to the locals of Drežnica is not a priority but a priority to putting land books into effect because the catastrian opera is in as good a state as possible. This would exclude manipulations made in the last 20 years. We must bear in mind that a large number of drežnicas have been evicted, and the property owners are in Drežnica and it is doubtful what would happen to a new scale without land books because they could not be present, and subsequent measurements would not be possible after the expiry of the appeal period. This would probably be a means of manipulating people who know this situation well. I think it's an opportunity to talk about these and similar cases and try to find a solution to those examples. The advantage of this bill is to set up a single property register system that will combine data from land books and catastras and introduce electronic land book management, as well as the availability and visibility of data. We also welcome the introduction of a register of buildings, which is a kind of spatial data that we do not have today, and is becoming increasingly necessary on such a type of data. It is a short period of time at which all these measurements, changes, where they will occur, and the conductability of an extremely complex job that requires a lot of effort from all sides, and we hope that we will not be slaves of deadlines but that we will all have time to work and get a new and improved regulation that will mean a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89158	Thank you, too. He will now take the word of Mrs Bernarda Topolko in front of the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89159	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the Proposal for a Law on State Measurement and a Catastrophe of Real estate. The proposed Law regulates the state dimension of the property cadastre, the infrastructure catalogue, the building register, the spatial unit register and geographical names. It also lays down jurisdiction over the affairs of the state administration and the conduct of those tasks and the establishment and part-round of the state geodetic administration. The proposal is intended to simplify and speed up administrative action and revision of business processes, cataster and land books, while improving e-commerce, establishing a common information system of catasters and land books, and providing quality spatial data. The adoption of this Act will improve the storage and use of data of national measurement and real estate cadasar, the register of buildings will be established, the register of spatial units and the register of geographical names and the catalogue of real estate. In order to coordinate the records of catasters and land books, business processes will be established through the improvement of real estate catastras, which will allow for the establishment, management and maintenance of a single real estate record. Furthermore, this proposal regulates access to digital archives, efficient use of data and improvement of services for users, as well as ensuring permanent storage of state measurement documentation and real estate catalogues, and archival buildings in digital and analogue form. The adoption of this new Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Catastrophe will ensure the creation of a framework for the establishment of a central system for the production, storage, distribution and management of cadastre data, infrastructure for the entire Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with legal property or EU legislation. And as I mentioned at the outset, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89160	Thank you, too. And now it's in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected director of the State Geodetic Administration with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster. As the State Secretary has already presented, this Law was passed in 2007 and has since suffered 6 amendments and additions, but has been in force since 2007. I believe that for a number of reasons, it is both legal and technical good to approach the creation of a new law which would in a revised way sublime all the amendments made so far on the one hand and, on the other hand, bring significant... for the geodetic profession, and certainly for one of the fundamentals if not the basic records in the Republic of Croatia, which is the land records or ownership of land in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current state of this record is absolutely unsatisfactory and is not at the level of the 21st century in one EU member state to manage and maintain such a property record that is absolutely unsupervised. Not only is it inconsistencies between catasters and land books, so catasters and courts, but it is also inconsistencies and unsustainable compared to the situation on the ground. In fact, the fact is that already the data on which the basic records are based, the real estate records, are based on data whose collection and measurement began nearly 2 centuries ago, or in the 30s of the 19th century and since then, the largest part of the Republic of Croatia is still based on that record, when we talk about catastrian plans, for many of our fellow citizens, it was odd that what 1:2880 was that 1:2904. So this fact that the very important record of the most valuable assets of our fellow citizens is based on data collected 2 centuries ago, generally unsustained and unsustained, says that it is time for the Republic of Croatia to systematically enter into a new measure, geodetic measurement and the creation of a new elaborate of real estate. This is one of the most important projects of this government and any future government for us at the HDZ Representatives' Club. The fact is that in the 28 years of the Croatian state, we have done very little to arrange the cadasters and land books, so according to the State Geodetic Administration, only 414 catastrian municipalities are in the process of measuring, making or applying a new geodetic measurement. So only 15% if we're saying that in the Republic of Croatia there are about 2600 catastrian municipalities, so all 414 are either being put into use or being exposed to public insight or certified to the embossed measurement, or the embossed measurements are being examined or the measurement is ongoing. So these are indeed data that are worrying and that before this government, in front of this State Geodetic Administration and the Resort Ministry of Putting, I would say, the obligation to make a new measure. In this regard, I welcome this Law which will significantly simplify that part of the work on the ground and the work relating to the presentation of elaborates to public insight. But before that, I would say something that, some of the data that I have often mentioned, which is sufficiently related to the relationship between Croats, as well as representatives of the executive and legislative authorities according to this real estate record. According to data from the National Statistics Office in the Republic of Croatia, there are approximately 2 million vehicles. So, Croatians, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, legal persons in the Republic of Croatia have about 2 million registered vehicles somewhere, so because of the need for technical checks and insurance and their assets, mobile assets such as cars, each year allocate about 7 billion kuna. So for a Croatian citizen or legal person in the Republic of Croatia, for registration of mobile property that can be worth 100-150 thousand kunas maximum or cheaper annually, about 3 to 3.5, 4 thousand kunas for that property that is mobile, so vehicles. At the same time, for their most valuable assets, properties, buildings, land, they usually don't stand out anything. So, if it's about 6 to 7 billion in 30 years or 28 years in the Croatian state, the Croats have allocated about 200 billion kuna to register their vehicles. For registering our best, most valuable assets, which are real estate, in the past 28 or 26 years we have not invested more than a billion and a half kuna. So, as a state, we haven't singled out two hundredths in order to sort out, record our most important assets, and I'm saying, compared to vehicle registration, technical checks, etc., we set out at an annual level six times more than we've singled out for this property that's more valuable than the cars and vehicles that we register in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this data speaks of how and in what way to relate to this asset that is very valuable and which, which needs to be measured, is to be updated, new records that will be able to display this property in the Republic of Croatia in quality. That's one reason. Another reason why this Law is good and why it is necessary to simplify the conduct of geodetic measurements and the production of a catastra real estate. This is the fact that with a stable tax system, with the agreed spatial plans of any level, so from state to local level including... Planning plans, assumption of quality, fast investment in the Republic of Croatia is a decorated cadastre and land book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we are witnessing, and we know that all of us who have ever gone into investment, including those related to the construction of our own housing houses, or as the head of the local self-government unit, or at a higher level of investment, know that we stumble at the first step, which is an unsettled, unsettled cataster or unscheduled land book. We are witnessing, for example, that in my Dalmatia, such a situation is across Croatia on a particle that has 30 square meters can be 100-150, 200-odd co-owners and that this fact almost prevents any serious access to investment resolution, etc. So in addition to the fixed and stable tax system, in addition to the fact that we have networked Croatia with all possible envisaged laws, spatial plans, I think the basic assumption is to enter a new cadastrian measurement and land book. In this sense, I welcome the fact that, by the basis of this Law, we will design, design, design, design, design, design, new geodetic measurement and create a cataster of real estate in the next 10 years. So, I welcome that, it seems to me that the greatest value of the amendments to this Law and I would even cut that part short because if it was planned to make that new geodetic measurement, Mr. Director referred to 570,000 hectares of extended building land, if, as you told me, a hectare of two thousand kunas, cost a hectare of measurement, then it's only a billion, I think 140 million kuna. So it's small money, it's at 10 years, it's 140 million kuna a year. Indeed, it is very small money, small financial resources and I appeal that what you planned, and that is very good and I congratulate you on turning into a new one, in this new project of cataster and land-based book making, new geodetic measurements, then I should say that it should reduce it to a minimum of 5 years, that this home, on a proposal from the Government and on a proposal from the state and religious administration, brings a multi-annual programme of geodetic measurements and a cataster of property that would be sublimed, I say, for only 5 years where we would be able to respond to building land, if we could respond with a geodetic operation in the Republic, and this is the question whether we can hold that would be a very good entry into our geodetic profession, which would contribute to an additional, better, quality investment and investment in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, therefore, I also support the simplification of the process of exposure that you have provided for in this Law, and which concerns the authorized measures itself to carry out... , and that only what is controversial, and that is 5-10% of disputes will be settled later in the commission that is currently carrying out the whole procedure, and because of the obligations of these civil servants, this process of exposure and preparation of elaborates is indeed going on indefinitely long and therefore we have witnessed that this data at this moment which I think is worrying, that until a new measurement is put into place, but then these data become slowly unsupervised due to the long passage of time between the start of the measurement and the position of the cataster and the land book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I welcome this fact that this way it will simplify. It is good for the geodetic profession, it is good for the Republic of Croatia to define a solution that will determine changes in the catastrian elaborat, that they will be written in an analogue system to the accuracy of 0.1 meters. This is also very important and this contributes to the reputation of the profession on the one hand, and on the other hand, the security of all the data that comes from the cataster and the land book. I also particularly welcome the construction, the obligation to make catastre buildings, building records. I think it will not only help building owners, it will also help local self-government units for all those obligations that they have under the Law imposed on local self-government units, and then they would observe that record in the context of this point that comes behind it, which is the Law on the municipal economy. So neither will the units of local self-government be able to manage their space in quality unless the State Geodetic Authority delivers quality data to them, and they can... to be based on this new measure and on the complete new establishment of building records. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When an analysis was carried out on what brings new geodetic measurement to the local self-government unit, then from the examples of those units of local self-government that are already available with data of the new geodetic measurement and the new real estate cadasar found that in the beginning the total amount of communal compensation in that local self-government unit is increasing by 40%, and the value of the property itself is increasing over 30-40% compared to the situation that was before the production of the new cadastre and the new land book. Therefore, these are all these data, all of these elements, I would say all these attributes that give you the right to enter into this process more courageously to create new multi-annual plans that will reduce procedures and speed up the production of cadastres and land books because I think it is indeed now time for us to be in the Republic of Croatia and to give full support to the State Geodetic Authority that by the end of the year after we adopt this Law, we are allowing procedures that would lead to the creation of new geodetic measurements. In this sense, we will support this new law on geodetic measurement of real estate, give full support to the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry to move into its realisation and to witness this one programme as soon as possible, which will determine the dynamics, spaces, areas that are, as it writes, construction and through which spaces it could indeed restore completely devastated and abandoned, and at the same time the most important records owned by Croatian citizens. In that sense, we certainly support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89162	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, the respected representative, Davor Lonchar, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89163	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the bill of measurement and the cataster of real estate, I must emphasise a very complex law where such a process of measuring real estate has been going on for years. What I must stress, and it is important, must certainly do everything possible to ensure that the technical tasks themselves do not come into question regardless of the financial resources. Believe me, it's not easy to approach the big problem that has been happening for centuries because of the messy catastrian and land situation in a package of all properties. Therefore, all together, regardless of policy, we do not have the right to bring about this process of measuring new entries, the correction in question, mainly when residents across the country, with all difficulties, are willing to continue to co-finance the resolution of their necessary land and other properties in order to finally have what they have and what is ultimately theirs and what is worth. Having various properties, and not having nothing is an immeasurable loss for anyone who is in trouble with the unresolved state of real estate. That's why our fellow citizens are asking us to finally know what their property is, what it's worth, what they can plan for and what they can invest in. A long time ago, it was Austro-Hungarian who had so simply solved property and property, let us also urgently into a rapid operational procedure towards the permanent resolution of our valuable properties. I am pleased that this Law has a number of new proposals and shortened procedures in relation to the current Law regarding public statements, insights, and I suggest that any possible basis for a new... the measurements from the old enrolment in the possession of the same respect as the right to ownership of new property holders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This way would speed up the process so much so that there would be far fewer unsolved cases mainly those who are not ready within the family to solve their problem, which is a small percentage relative to the number of new cases. As for units of local administrations, municipalities and cities, they must, with all difficulties, find the last means to help their participants settle and solve both their own and their problems in each single catastrian municipality. Only by solving clean records particles, the real estate cadastre, are created if we want data on the use of units of local administrations for the needs of records where the current unsettled state of analysis of municipalities and cities will be harmonised. It's very good to have all the data and records and... the register of facilities, apartments and other necessary updated data, exclusively run a cadastre because I feel responsibly that these municipalities and cities are in no condition for now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be no good if we all had each of our own records, which would literally destroy everything in the record and there would be no control, everyone would penetrate in their own irresponsible way, and in practice, the various works would take place unnecessary actions that have no end. There is no state that has left it to cases, and therefore it is too important to have a relationship within each institution to do and help to finally get a long-awaited document and law that we must all respect. In order for this program to happen, it is urgent and necessary, without delay, to reward all those directly related to the profession, knowledge, because I wonder, including all of you, who will work for a modest salary when only one exiting the field of the profession that deals with this work earns more on one particle than a month as an employee of a cataster or landowner. We need to improve the system of catasters and landowners because it is in the national reform programme. For all functional mergers of existing registers of institutions, cadastres and landowners where there must be accurate data on the real owners of ownership over land because ownership is a constitutional category and pillar of state. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia must no longer allow unplanned, inefficient collection of accurate real land data. We need to give the answer that we need, which will be a data model, we need to determine the rules correctly, the regulations must be reduced to making the obstacles as simple and as fast as possible, otherwise we have done nothing. The basic data for each particle are where it is, what it is, what it actually means, what form it is, what position it is in space and the spatial plan, what is the assessment of it, what is the spatial scale and why it is used. In the end, the cadastrian measurement must be interesting, or economical, for each individual particle, for each group of land particles, for part of the catastrian municipality or for the entire catastrian municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89164	Thank you. We have two replicas. She is one of the respected representatives of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89165	Dear counterpart Loncar, anyone who has ever met with a solution to property legal relations, not to speak at local self-government units with the preparation of projects, knows how important the issue of disaster resolution is. And in your debate, which I support, you pointed out one problem and said that units of local self-government should know... the means to facilitate the construction of that catastrophe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here is the burning problem that I and all of us face here, in state institutions. Neither the state geodetic administration nor the courts have enough resources for this. The people who work there are underpaid, I can't hire them. Local self-government units assume the obligation to pay court employees, to pay cadastre employees, to provide space, to buy information equipment and to ask the question of whom the cadastre is being arranged. Is it only worth the city or the municipality or is it worth the state? I think we should start talking about this seriously at this same level, but also at the level of the ministry and the government because the funds for this must be found. It is inappropriate for us to still use the Australian Catastre.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89166	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89167	Thank you, colleague Klaric. I agree entirely with the facts you've presented. In any case, I also pointed out in my speech that funds must be found and that this process must be completed as soon as possible so that everyone in Croatia really knows what they have, whose property they own and what they have. But if the state had to give up a great deal of resources... This problem, I absolutely agree with you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89168	The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lončar, I had time for 15 minutes, and finally I dropped something that I think is important and that you, as head of the local self-government unit, also point out, is that this new law does not redefine the obligation of the state geodetic administration to make and manage the catastrophe and infrastructure. You know that this was foreseen in the amendments to the law and given to the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government and that in Croatia only 6 units of local self-government seem to have taken over, which number confirms that this was a bad solution. And by this law we now return the child to the mother, in the establishment of the property cadastre, we return it to the state geodetic administration and thus help local self-government units, but above all also to the users of the infrastructure so that it can be recorded and run in the right place by the profession. So I'm holding that as head of the local self-government unit, you're going to support a solution like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89170	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89171	Thank you, colleague Bačić, I fully agree with what was in the past years when monitoring the records by the local administration unit, it has absolutely produced no results. It has only caused problems for all of us, and it is precisely in this law that suggests that it will be in the jurisdiction of the catastra that is very important, because I also said in my speech that every country that is serious and who wants to have it must keep it on the record of all and infrastructure and other building forms, etc. For to leave it one more time, I repeat, to the municipalities and to the cities would not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89172	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89173	Honorable Vice President, talk about the cataster, without being particularly educated is very difficult, but with a life experience when after 28-30 years you seek justice by courts that one particle, one inheritance that everyone knows is yours, and that would come into the true possession of one whose 1/1 in the meantime is that two lawyers die and that I should inherit it, then, 28 years, if I only count my age, so in the meantime, since it was not decided to buy another plot in the same place about 500 meters from my particle, the second one to build my own house, so that it would be 1/1, so that it would not be devastating, in a sense, by the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament. So I am now 1/1 owner of my property and also my entire property with a lot of squares is recorded in my ownership list. The arrival of Minister Mrak-Taritash in order to make it all mine again, so I had to go back to every shed, each vault to legalize and pay every shed of 500 kuna, and further about 30 thousand kuna legalization in my place, which is catastrianly arranged where it is known exactly whose asshole is in a centimeter. Well, it's not clear to me that those things haven't been solved in our country yet. And maybe it's because Austro-Hungarian has worked hard in the area where I live. But I didn't answer just because of my story, but because of what certain people, citizens, professionals write and send to me. So that's how I'm going to read between these materials. He says this way, Mr. Klaric says the funds are not available, he needs funds to fix it. I received information that 5m euros arrived from 2000 to 2010 in the Republic of Croatia on the jury accounts of the National Geodesy Administration of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of harmonising the Catastrian and Land Book Opera with the actual situation in the physical space. For the purpose of a more substantial flow of money from the EU, the Regulation was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia: etc., on 4.8.2004, which acquires full power, full legal effect and full legal consequence on 1.1.2010. So, by my math, I don't know how weak she is, but I think she'd be available with today's technology, a technique that's seen by the pores on the human hand, and we haven't been able to determine the position, the design and everything else, if we need the moon and the stars to get a projection of where it is. And then we'd be easy, at least in the archives, to come to a conclusion whose what's what. I will read, working group, administrative and bureaucratic obstacles to business and investment. This is from our esteemed president. It says, in the Republic of Croatia, the land records system is based on 3351 catastrian municipalities, which include about 14 million parcels, and only about 5% of land-book data is correct and shows accurate data. The poor condition and unscheduledness of land records brings invaluable losses and damage to individuals, companies, associations, units of local self-government, economy and society as a whole. Irregularity of ownership relations prevents the realization of investment potential. Also, the disorderly state of the record allows abuse, alienation, accidental use and other illegal acts, which we conclude that the judiciary is probably doing something about it and that there are penalties as it says, for estrangement of immovable property in Croatia if there is a penalty, I hope that is the case. Catastre, spatial data on pitches of cadastar particles. For 70% of the region of the Republic of Croatia, the cadastrian record is based on data from 19th century Austro-Hungarian graphic measurements and although it is copied in digital form, it often does not correspond to the real state on the ground and by position, shape, use, but also possession. About 25% of the region of the Republic of Croatia was measured by other methods or passed through the process of agricultural land accumulation and contains the latest somewhat more accurate data. I am on the trail of these latest modes of measurement, calculation, and I have also asked Minister Tolušić, respected for the map of the Arcod web, for the area of the Kastastar municipality of Sušak, that the factual state of the Arcod map does not correspond to the actual factual state of Google maps, and especially the areas of the part of the Braidice continental terminal, where it is shown from the Arcod map that the terminal does not exist. What's the matter? So, there's a forest in Arcod, there's no bridge on the port, how is that possible if you see the pores? So, Bryce is a forest. How did the forest find its port? Well, somebody probably cut the woods out of a forest-rich area and copied it and put it on the port of Bridice. And the Google maps show the Port of Bridice. So, it's verifiable, I don't know, I'm a layman, I'm just a parliamentary agent who's been led by some information, so it's interesting for me to discuss it and for documentation. And I'm also going to read this, it's from Mr. Bozidar Viduka, the engineer. The geodetic measurement based on Gauss-Kruger projections, meridian zones for the purpose of forming public documents from the domain of the spatial property register on the territory of the Republic of Croatia is conducted from 17,1924 and runs until 1.1.2020. The interesting thing about the work of the Geodetic Authority is that it has managed to measure and solve property legally only 20% of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia. What's going on here, I wouldn't go in there, but I'm very interested in having Gauss-Kruger's method, we've got planes flying over in the former Yugoslavia, we've got satellites, we've got historical extracts, we've got everything, but we can't determine whose plot is 1/1, and I'm like an ordinary little citizen who had to legalize every shed in Slavonia, whether it's for purpose or for destruction, I wonder how it's possible. In addition to all the 5 million euros that have come to Croatia for this purpose, why are we here today talking about this same issue, this problem? I think I've said enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89174	Thank you very much. Now, in the final name of the promoter, and I'm sorry, we have one replica, the respected representative of Grosdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89175	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I really agree with a colleague who, in this 21st century, is still wondering how we haven't solved land books since it's known that there is actually mistrust in our land books and those that have been arranged so far. And what I'm particularly concerned about is that we haven't really been able to do more, there's actually a problem of coordination between the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of actually through the judicial advisors and the recording of all that data in the property register. What's interesting is that, let's say, Turkey has opportunities, and it does it every two years that, in fact, by flying over, it creates and looks at the changes that have occurred to [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89176	We have some kind of response, no thanks. So now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected secretary of state will speak at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89177	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all of you who have participated in the debate on the adoption of this law, which is an extremely professional law in the field of geodetic activity. And it's no wonder that some times in the debate, there may have been some chasing concepts that are more connected to actually land books than so much to the cadastre. So some specific concepts that were heard in the last debate are actually related to the protection of MORH data that protects data and blocks the review of the cathedral. Once again, I thank and hope that this law will meet all expectations, improve processes and remove a number of irregularities and problems that we have encountered so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89178	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89179	Proposal for a State Measurement Act and a Realty Cataster, first reading P.Z.E. No. 363. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- The proposal for a Law on State Measurement and a catalogue of real estate and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 85 for, 5 abstentions and 2 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89180	Now we move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the municipal economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 264; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and the Committee on Local and Regional/regional/ Self-Government. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Re-respected Secretary of State at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89181	This law on the municipal economy was passed the first time in 1995 and has been amended 18 times to date. This law regulates the principles, manner and implementation of the financing of the municipal economy, as well as other issues relating to the purpose of carrying out municipal activities in which the concept of a municipal economy involves the pursuit of municipal activities and, in particular, the provision of municipal services of interest to natural and legal persons, and the financing of construction and maintenance of facilities, public infrastructure devices as a whole system in the area, municipalities, cities, cities and the county when determined by that law. The unusually large number of amendments and additions make up the text of the applicable Law on the Communist Economy extremely non-transparent and difficult to achieve in the implementation. This is further contributed by the fact that in 6 cases the Law on the municipal economy has been amended by other laws and, in particular, by the fact that these laws are more or less parallel to the issues related to certain municipal infrastructure, its construction and financing of its construction, and by three of these laws, by the Water Act, the Law on Sustainable Waste Management and the Law on burial activity, certain businesses have ceased to be a communal activity within the meaning of the Law on the Communist Economy. In more than 20 years, the implementation of the Law on the Communist Economy has seen numerous other shortcomings in that law that could not be removed by its many amendments and additions. These shortcomings are seen mainly as legal gaps, for example, when it comes to building the property's legal status of municipal infrastructure, organisational forms, carrying out municipal activity, municipal order and the work of municipal directors, and as relatively poor, insufficient, or inadequately regulated individual issues. The secret concerns, above all, the issue of principles on which the municipal economy must rest, which are insufficiently arranged and the municipal contribution and the communal compensation, which is the basis and most important sources of funding for the construction of the municipal infrastructure, which needs to be regulated, in a way that will remove identified shortcomings and without increasing the financial burden on the taxpayers to pay them. In addition, certain issues related to the organisational forms of carrying out municipal activity specifically, with a company carrying out municipal activity, a public institution and the confidence of the provision of municipal services to a contract, were to be brought into line with the Public Procurement Act. On the other hand, with regard to the names of certain municipal activities, there is a need for terminology with the Law on the Transport of Road Transport and the Water Act. In order to address the problems and shortcomings mentioned above, it is necessary to draw up and adopt a new law which will result from the following consequences to establish a system of municipal economy, in line with the laws governing water supply and disposal, waste management, mortuary activity, public procurement, concessions and provision of services, and with specific laws governing issues of the municipal economy. The question of the importance of the municipal economy for living and working in units of local self-government and the principles on which the municipal economy must be based will be clearly and properly addressed. Standard conditions will be provided to improve the implementation of the municipal order in the area of the local self-government unit. It will allow easy and rapid recording of the cataster and entry into land books, municipal infrastructures, built until the new Law on the Communist Economy enters into force. The text of the Law on the municipal economy will become reviewed and easy to apply the implementation, thus improving the effectiveness of its implementation. Furthermore, between the 2 readings, i.e. the debate which was conducted during the first examination of the draft law, the observations and the proposals presented in the debate, as well as the reasons why the law was adopted, this final proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, which differs significantly from the proposed law, was drawn up in the following. As part of carrying out municipal activities and maintaining municipal infrastructure, it is also possible to ensure the construction of municipal infrastructure, the maintenance of parts of public roads passing through the settlement, has been deleted as a municipal activity. The operation of chimneys and the maintenance of deforestation buildings is defined as a communal activity. ... the previous consent of the minister, as a condition for declaring new municipal activities and closer identification of jobs, which are considered jobs, carried out in the context of municipal activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Non-profit associations of citizens have been disabled in carrying out the municipal activities of maintaining the cemetery and the activities of the funeral service of the deceased. They've been wiped out like unnecessary rules about jobs that can't be interrupted. It was deleted from a provision which prohibited a commercial company carrying out a municipal activity at the same time as other commercial activities, with other activities carried out in the public interest being required to carry out separate accounting operations. It is deleted as an unnecessary obligation of a company carrying out its municipal activity, to submit to the representative body of the unit of the local self-government of the labour plan, the work report and the financial report. In units of local self-government that have a single administrative department, it is possible to set up their own drive, as an organisational unit in that part or as a special design unit, depending on the needs and wishes of units of local self-government. The deadlines on which a concession for the exercise of municipal activities may be granted have been deleted. The Institute of Public Activity Contracts is fully in line with public procurement rules, and it is impossible to change the legal status of municipal infrastructure by special laws. It is prescribed that the storage and construction of the intended production of the municipal contribution solution is not made by the power of the building permit, but by the power of the use of the permit. The release from payment of certain auxiliary buildings, on a building particle or within the scope of the procedure in the existing building or on the existing building, is restricted only to those buildings intended for use in the main building. The exemption from payment of a municipal contribution for buildings and works that are built without a building permit and gl according to a special regulation has been deleted. the project. The possibility of exemption from payment of the municipal contribution to specific laws has been deleted. A representative body of a unit of local self-government shall be allowed to prescribe general conditions and reasons for which, in individual cases, a partial or full exemption from payment of a municipal contribution is granted. The saying is that garage and business space within the military building and building land within the military site is not considered a garage residential space, and building land for which a municipal fee is charged. A clearer issue has been addressed by the payer of the municipal compensation at the time of its payment of the payment obligations of the payer of the same. There is a limit from the applicable Law on the municipal economy, according to which for hotels, apartment settlements, campsites, the height of the annual municipal fee cannot exceed 1.5% of the total annual income from the previous year achieved in hotels, apartment settlements, camps, which are located in the area of the local self-government unit. The powers of the municipal director in implementing the decision on municipal order have been reduced, a deadline has been extended to establish the register of municipal infrastructure, with 6 months. on a yearly basis, and the text legally technical and spellingly completed. We conclude that the proposed law will meet its objectives and improve the municipal economy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89182	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Mark Wealigai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89183	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I must say that I am sorry that we do not have a resolute minister here at this second reading either, given that it is a very important law for your ministry as well as for local self-government units. What I can say is that in front of us is one entirely different bill compared to the first reading. Indeed, when we look at how much change has been made throughout the law, it should certainly be observed, and we should also welcome what we have stated here in the debate, I can say from all political options. The SDP was the first to react to one of the damages of this law, that it was respected, but there are also things that are not respected and that I think can be improved through this debate, it is primarily paying for the communal contribution... The administrative permit and I hope that through the amendments that you will receive, we will accept it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89184	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89185	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here I have to repeat a part of what my colleague Marko said, this law has seen a tremendous number of changes from first to second reading. I'm glad that you've respected all the things we've been referring to, but I'm not glad that in the first reading, this law could come in at all, which I would say, completely unprepared because if we've made so many changes between the first and the second reading, it means that I would say, almost amateurally. I have a feeling that here we are, and you yourself said that we have brought 18 amendments and additions to this law. This law, which is extremely important for local self-government units, and we mayors and mayors try every time with a new law to catch it all. Well, I mean, honestly, we've had enough already of changing the law 18 times, but I have to point out how much this law has changed that this comes down to every new minister who comes, wants to make and leave a trail, so he writes a new law. Here it is literally like that, I have this feeling, and so it is with this law that has a lot of changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89186	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89187	Thank you. So here's what your colleagues said, we counted there, there's more than 30 changes, then we didn't count anymore, practically between the first and second readings, this isn't the law in the second reading, but we could say that this is a new law given how many changes are put in. What's good is the first law in the first reading, it was definitely bad. I'm still interested in explaining to me that the articles of the 35th Coalition with the Law on Commercial Society and the Law 36 are in your coalition with Law 36 of the Commercial Society Act and the Law of 43rd is in your coalition with the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional self-government, so I'm wondering why you haven't solved it because it can't be the communal law that determines these two laws. There are also some laws I'm going to talk about, and I'm curious about what's going on with local self-government units that don't have 100% share of shares in companies, what's happening with them, so they can't carry out the communal activity as it's now shown in the law, or are you going to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89188	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89189	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here are my colleagues who said what I really wanted to say right away, and that is that this final bill has experienced extremely extensive changes, I have counted until the end of 42 changes between the proposal and the final proposal. But they're not fundamentally explained, this is a new concept, the new things you've installed are actually absolute newspapers, and so we as a club have proposed a third reading of this law. I hope you think about it, there will be a lot more time to talk about it in the debate on behalf of the club and in individual debates and say why. We regret that there is no Deputy Prime Minister here who was in the morning debate on an important law, but this law is not less important and I expect you to make it clear whether you will accept the third reading of this law since you have really changed the concept of an extremely large amount in this text.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89190	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89191	Thank you very much. So this is the esteemed secretary, the new law, the law that he experienced as said by his colleague Podolnjak, more than 40 changes that are not well explained and should go to the third question because this is very important for local self-government. Of course it's funny for HDZ agents because they don't care about local self-government, and I'd just ask you one question. Why does utility infrastructure not include infrastructure or sewerage of teleoperate distribution? Which is why you did not mention it through an article that you explain that belongs to local self-government and ownership, let's say this example where you also favor teleopers and telecommunications systems and telecommunications systems here. You give the network full ownership, and that sewerage goes to roads, roads where local self-government owns it. Why didn't you mention this part of the law in the municipal infrastructure and its true status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89192	Here's the answer in five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89193	Thank you very much for asking. Which is why something is not included in the municipal infrastructure, but it comes from a pure definition of municipal infrastructure, from the spirit of the entire law and the spirit of municipal infrastructure. So we cannot, by our will, include something that we would like, the telecommunications infrastructure of our own importance, by its purpose, as it extends across the country, does not belong to a communal infrastructure that should be on the local self-government unit, nor is it owned by that municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89194	Comrade Miro Bulj has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89195	There are distinguished secretaries, distribution sewers for telecommunications. These are the pipes that are placed and where the roads and other infrastructures go. And I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be like other regulated states, in Sweden, Germany, so teleoperators come and they're the revenues of local self-government and that the right of service is paid to local self-government, which is not an example of the Republic of Croatia. It's about billions of dollars a year going to teleopers with the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, the profit they praise, they don't invest in the Republic of Croatia, and that sewerage was built means our predecessors, we build it, and the owners are they, and they don't pay anything to local self-government. What they don't do in Germany, so they come either to Sweden or to other countries where they come from, the owners of these teleopers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89196	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89197	Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session held on 14 June 2018, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on the municipal economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 264, which has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 7 June 2018. On the basis of Art. 93. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above act as a parent working body. The proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed Law regulates the principles on which the municipal economy rests, the pursuit of municipal activities, construction and maintenance of infrastructure, payment of contributions and compensation, maintenance of order and other significant issues. The law regulates the types and organisational forms in which municipal activities are carried out, issues related to the performance of these activities, and issues of municipal contribution and compensation. The proposed Law will ensure the standard conditions for improving the implementation of the municipal order in the field of units of local self-government and will allow for the simple recording of municipal infrastructure built up until the entry into force of this Act into the catastro and entry into the land books. Furthermore, differences have been made between the final draft laws in relation to the first reading proposal of the Law. A significant difference from the proposal for the Law in the first reading is that, as part of carrying out municipal activities, the maintenance of municipal infrastructure allows for the provision and construction of municipal infrastructure. Furthermore, maintenance of parts of public roads passing through the settlement has been wiped out as a communal activity. The operation of chimneys and the maintenance of deforestation buildings is defined as a communal activity. It is prescribed that the municipal contribution is not paid by the units of local self-government in their area and that it is not paid for the construction and legalisation of firehouses, military buildings, transport, energy, water, maritime, communication and electrical communication infrastructures, ground and underground production and waterways, as well as sports and children's playgrounds. Next, it is impossible for non-profit associations of citizens to carry out municipal activities, to maintain cemetery and the activities of the burial service of the deceased, the deadline for setting up public infrastructure records has been extended, the powers of the communal director have been reduced in implementing the decision on municipal order and others. In the debate, part of the Committee's members assessed that the proposed solutions in Article 1(2) were questionable. 59, 70, 92, 1st and 5th and 97th. Final proposal of the Law on the municipal economy in relation to Article. 84, Article 2 of the opinion has been expressed that the solution whereby a solution on a municipal contribution is subject to the power of use of the applicable authorisation could slow down the development of economic areas in smaller areas. During the debate, the proposing representatives answered the questions asked and explained the proposed solution in detail. 84.v. 2. which refers to the power of use, to the power of use of the storage permit or to the building of the intended production. The proposed provision is a compromise solution whereby units of local self-government make a contribution to competitiveness and redistribution of entrepreneurship. On the question raised in the debate on municipal directors and their powers, the applicant explained that no new business or material legal authority has been awarded to municipal directors, but only formally prescribed their powers in relation to the lack of the number of municipal directors in rural municipalities, which is highlighted in the debate. According to the proposed law, several units of local self-government can jointly establish municipal redistribution. At its meeting, the proposing representative agreed and accepted the proposed amendments to the Committee on the final proposal of this Act. After the debate, the Committee decided to propose, by a majority of votes, 8 votes in favour, 2 abstentions to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the Law on the Communist Economy with the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 1 25. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25.v. 5. words on solid fuels are deleted for reasons, since chimneys have concessions that allow them to perform, clean and control all storage devices, this amendment removes the restriction that they can perform these tasks only on solid fuel storage devices. Amendment 2 to Article 2 44 Article 44(3) is amended as follows: Recital: This amendment to the provisions of Article 44(3) of the proposed law shall be in line with the provision of Article 24(1) of that Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Article 118 is amended as follows: Control over the implementation of this law is carried out by the central authority of the State Administration in charge of the affairs of the municipal economy. Recital: This amendment allows the central authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy to monitor the implementation of this law and to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Article 119 is amended and reads: The administrative authority and the legal person with public authority shall be obliged to provide the Ministry with access to its official space and to provide all requested data, documents and reports within the requested time limit. If the administrative authority, paragraph 2, if the administrative body, or a legal person with public authority, does not act upon the request of the Ministry referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article for fulfillment, it is requested to be called upon by a solution. Recital: This amendment allows for the unification of administrative practice and the conduct of units of local self-government in the implementation of this law in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and provides for measures by the central authority of the state administration responsible for the activities of the municipal economy to ensure the implementation of this law. Amendment 5, supplementing the article, the following Article 119a) is added: The Ministry shall order the administrative authority and the legal person with public authority to remove the illegality or irregularities established in the exercise of supervision and the time limit for its removal. The non-compliance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall, for an unwarranted reason, constitute a serious violation of the official duties of the head of the management body, i.e. a legal person with public authority. Recital: This amendment allows for the unification of administrative practice and the conduct of units of local self-government in the implementation of this law in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and provides for measures by the central authority of the state administration responsible for the activities of the municipal economy to ensure the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89198	Thank you very much. I hereby open the debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the esteemed representative Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89199	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, we will propose a third reading of this law, the proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, for the reason that we believe that the extremely large changes that occurred between the bill and the final proposal of the law are such and are not justified, that this proposal requires a third reading. Introductoryly, we said that over 40 significant changes were made in this final bill. This may, in a certain sense, be considered positive in the sense that the applicant has taken note of the significant number of objections and suggestions made both in the parliamentary debate and from the associations of cities and other entities participating in the public debate. The fact is that many suggestions and suggestions have not been adopted. The fact is also, which we would particularly like to emphasise, that there have been a number of changes between the proposal and the final bill that did not come out of the debate in Parliament, or from some other subjects, are not explained why they happened and you actually have only one indent that states that some provision in the bill has been deleted and that it is no longer in the final proposal. It is absolutely unclear why the promoter did it, especially when it comes to very significant changes. As a club Mosta, we have already submitted 28 amendments to this final proposal, which tells you in fact that we are largely not satisfied with the content of the final proposal. In fact, what are our fundamental remarks being considered? The Law on the municipal economy has always been one of the central laws for local self-government. The Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and the Law on the Communist Economy are three key laws, at least that's how it's been until now, that's for the last years. Unfortunately, it is in the Law on the Communist Economy that it is gradually being translated into other laws in significant terms and that certain provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy are not being put out of force, because the provisions of specific laws governing one of the activities apply. We are, in fact, losing a roof Law on the municipal economy that should essentially solve fundamental things, which are principles on which municipal activities are carried out, to list all relevant municipal activities carried out by local self-government units, to define ways in which these activities can be carried out and to define the revenues by which and the ways in which these municipal activities are carried out and financed. It should be the subject of roof law. What is unfortunately happening, and it will deepen with the adoption of this law, if the applicant insists on it, we will have several different regimes of municipal activity. That one part of the municipal activities will remain in this round-cut Law on the municipal economy, and the other part will be singled out in certain specific laws that will prescribe different regimes and functionings and principles and methods of carrying out these municipal activities and financing, etc. And that's not good. What we have also proposed in the proposal, and further, that this law contains all the municipal activities that were originally communal, which today local self-government units are carrying out as municipal activities, and not that we have only one part, and in fact we have singled out others as public water supply or public waste or municipal waste management or some other activities that are vital, absolutely essential in the municipal activities that we have singled out in specific laws and in a special regime that is in fact significantly deviating from the general regime of municipal activities and the principles according to which they should take place. I am responsible for the reasons why some suggestions were not accepted by the applicant, in such a way that some activities are not currently listed in the current Law on the Communist Economy. Among other examples, public water supply or public disposal. These are two extremely important municipal activities that are now listed in the Law on the Communist Economy, and we are proposing them again. They cannot be singled out in some special regime that will no longer be referred to as the municipal sector, the municipal activity, and which may be diminished by amendments to the special laws, that common section, that public service we always identify with municipal activities and that will gradually transform into something else that, through concessions and otherwise, will become more and more private activity that will eventually be privatised through special laws, and we are sharply against it. And that's why we insist that all communal activities be listed in the Law on the Communist Economy, everything. And all those that have been mentioned so far, there is no excuse that, for example, the most important among them are public water supply, municipal waste management, public disposal and wastewater treatment are not in the Law on the municipal economy. These activities were originally in the draft laws that the ministry had just given for public debate, and then removed them from the bill, they are not even in the final proposal, and they even assure us that these activities are not listed in the current law, and they are. The greatest certainty that these activities are not privatised one day is to be defined in this Law on the municipal economy as municipal activities carried out as public service, which are under the important authority of the units of local self-government, is the greatest guarantee. See what's going on in the municipal waste management sector since we haven't defined it as a communal activity and what problems local self-government units have because it's no longer a communal activity, and deep down it is. One of those that's vital to every citizen in any local self-government unit. Of course, we will insist on that in the amendments. Furthermore, there are a number of important provisions that have not been improved in this final bill, some of which we want to highlight. For example, we find it completely unclear why the applicant, without any justification from the legal provision that speaks of concessions, has provided a time limit on which the concession can be awarded. So, even in the current law, you have a deadline that is 30 years long, in the bill you had 10 to 20 years, depending on the municipal activity you want to trust through the concession, and then the promoter, without any reason, removes the deadline and you do not now have a period of concession in this final proposal. I saw the concession law as a roof law that I was convinced might define some sort of general term of the concession. However, in Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The concession law does not have that time limit, but the law says that each specific activity should be defined by the term of validity of the concession. So, this final bill of law has happened big, but I would say intentional failure. Because if you leave out the period of validity of the concession, that means that the representative body could set a concession for an undefined number of years. This is why we propose an amendment for a maximum period of 10 years. I mention that in one law on sustainable waste management you have in art. It seems to me to me 31, which defines the performance of these tasks, the possibility of awarding a concession by a representative body for a maximum period of 10 years. Therefore, a special law defining the municipal activity of waste management or the collection of municipal waste defines a concession with a maximum period of 10 years, and the roof Law on the municipal economy has eliminated that provision from the proposal of the Law. And you have another slightly worse provision than that, and that's also indicative that a deadline has been left out for which you can enter into a public trust agreement. Therefore, if it is not a concession, you can also entrust a contract for a certain period of time to some exercise of municipal activity. In the current Law on the municipal economy, the deadline is 4 years. So, it's one term of office of the representative body, including the executive body, and that trust agreement was, of course, passed by the representative body, and that's the solution we had in the Bill's proposal. So the bill of law did not deviate from the existing solution that we have in the existing Law on the Communist Economy. And what happens in the final proposal? In your final proposal, you have two changes. The first is that, instead of a representative body, the mayor, or the municipal chief, is determined to enter into a contract to entrust municipal affairs and the second, even worse, the deadline on which such a contract can be concluded is deleted. Therefore, the final proposal, without any justification, is given the authority of one person under the law, undefined and unlimited period, to conclude a contract for the performance of municipal transactions, with no justification whatsoever. That can't be an accident. The proposer has in no way explained why it makes such a drastic change, which actually changes the provision that exists for 25 years in the communal economy system. Therefore, it deletes that power, assigns it to the head of the executive body and deletes the term of the contract on the confidence of municipal affairs. Of course, we have put an amendment to this provision to bring it back to the original in the Bill's proposal, which is that the contract is concluded by a representative body, so it makes a decision to accept the confidence of municipal affairs and that the deadline is the longest of four years, as it has always been. And through this Act we want to restore power to the representative body wherever possible, and this is also done by the founding rights of the institutions, to give consent to the prices of municipal services and to change the prices of municipal services. No one can convince us that a better solution is to agree to the price of municipal service that one person is mayor or mayor. It is a huge responsibility and a far better solution is that this consent is given by a representative body. I remember when I was a councilman in the city council, the mayor didn't want to give himself consent, and he had this possibility under the law, but he addressed the council to give him the previous consent to increase the cost of municipal service. And that says enough. So our view is that this proposal must go into third reading because of the fundamental changes that have taken place, which have almost completely reversed the original concept, partly due to the lack of respect for the proposals that have been highlighted in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89201	Good afternoon, everyone, we are continuing with the agenda point, final proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 264. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Marko Vesligaj, was first registered on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please welcome fellow Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89202	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Assistant Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and MPs. Here's when we were just over four months ago. had a first reading of the Law on the Communist Economy, they heard numerous criticisms about the law in the first reading can be said from all sides of the assembly. But in the vote, the rulings still supported this proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, which was actually dangerous, bad, illogical, unspeakable, and we of the SDP club were the first to warn. We clearly said then that the resolution ministry with such an unscheduled proposal for the Law on the Communist Economy should be leveled because it represents not only a potential blow to local self-government units but to the wallets of our citizens and has directly hit the autonomy of local self-government because it is not in line with a number of legal regulations. It's worth a coworker and a colleague, a little something to remember because it was really a clean amateurism. And in such a form, he should not even come to take that first step when the public sees it, which is e-consultation, let alone in the parliamentary procedure. And here is the second reading before us, and there's a completely different law in front of us because when we look at only this impressive number, my colleague Podolnjak mentioned earlier, 42 changes from the first reading, then there's a different law and something else, and I can say that there's certainly better to go with this law in the third reading because he has a lot of room for progress, we've heard it through replicas and we've heard it through some of the discussions. The first mentioned article 84, which actually determines that the solution to the municipal contribution is made according to the power of the applicable authorisation and is actually one pure nonsens, another blow to the units of local self-government. I'll try to look further at a few of the articles that we believe should be fixed in the SDP, and we'll give these articles our amendments, and I believe that if there is no third reading, and I think it should definitely come, that at least by ruling, they'll appreciate it to get at least some good Law on the municipal economy. First, I'm going to take a quick look at Article 77(4), where here's 8 points that the municipal contribution pays me for. It is therefore proposed to align the final draft law with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 12 March 2003, which rejected the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution and the law of Article 10 of the decision on a municipal contribution which is essentially based on the view that the autonomous right of the unit of local self-government is to establish the conditions for discharge from duty... certain obligations in the case of funds that constitute the original revenue of the budget of the units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also controversial in this article 84, not only in the part relating to payment under the applicable permit, but because according to the current provisions of the final draft law, a solution on municipal contribution is made by official duty or at the request of a party for buildings built without a building permit, the solution shall be made after the application of the start of the construction or after the start of the construction. If the bonds do not report the start of the construction or do not report the creation of the obligation to pay the municipal contribution, the bonds shall not bear sanctions but pay the municipal contribution in the event that the competent authorities succeed in determining the existence of the obligation within the legal time limit. We therefore propose to oblige the applicants to report the occurrence of the obligation and to define the infringement provisions for non-compliance with their obligation. Such a solution will also reduce the number of appeal cases with regard to the disagreement between the obligor and the competent authority regarding the area of the facility subject to the obligation to pay the municipal fee. We further have the Article 92(5) relating to military facilities, so the applicant excluded the garages, business spaces and building land within the military building or location from paying the municipal fee. Therefore, the regulation of the reduction of obligations or the exemption from payment of municipal compensation by legislation, the Constitutional Court has declared disagreeable with the Constitution even when the legislator does so in accordance with the Law on the Communist Economy. You have a detailed explanation in the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 July 2017. So I don't know why it's exempt from paying military facilities that we know are even used for market purposes. Furthermore, I would refer to Article 97 first. So here the amount of these payments is determined, so in some ways already, by establishing these coefficients, the purposes are being affected in some ways by the autonomy of the local self-government units. Of course, these amounts that are limited are too small, here I will especially look back at the coefficient of purpose for unbuilt building land which has been placed inadequately and therefore the economic justification of collecting municipal compensation is questionable. So we have an annual plot debt, say 500 square feet in the first zone in the coastal cities ranging from some 140, 150 kuna, and we have a significantly less debt in the other zones, and then it doesn't cover labour costs, materials, removal of the solution, and it doesn't cover the cost of appeal procedures and forced collection. In view of this, therefore, all of the above and of the unsettled property-legal relations that we have in these areas, the units of local self-government are extremely demoted to record such land, and the owners, the users, are not at all motivated to regulate property-legislative relations, nor to put it in the service of economic activities. So we keep with these existing proposals one status quo, which is certainly not good primarily for the development of the economy, but neither for local units that lose and certain revenues. The second thing I would refer to in this Article is paragraphs 2 and 3 which provide for a reduction in the payment of municipal compensation for business entities operating less than 6 months, i.e. tourism real estate. Therefore, since such entities are subject to a reduction in the obligation of other operators from the same or other industry, such a reduction can be considered as State support, therefore with regard to smaller real estate, the reduction of the obligation may be considered to be deminimous support, but in terms of more significant real estate, therefore the reduction of the obligation can easily cross the line of deminimis support. So I repeat once again that the regulation of the reduction or exemption from payment of the municipal fee to the Law on the Communist Economy is inadmissible in view of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 July 2017. We still have a lot of irregularities in the law, and legal experts have also mentioned a lot of things about the lack of concession deadlines. One direction that we warned in the first reading and which, let me say, is somewhat shifted, which is that it does not go directly towards the benefit of private capital, and yet it is not prevented, what I can say is that SDP will surely advocate that municipal services remain in public ownership because if we go to privatisation, the most will be our citizens through higher prices of these services, it will feel their bills the most. Unfortunately, this law has affected a lot of smaller municipalities because here, partly, the same thing suits the larger ones because every small municipality can't have its own municipal drive, so then it does it with some big one, that law also limits them. I believe that reason will prevail, that we may have a third reading, that an amendment will be accepted which will come from the SDP club, that we at least do some repair and speak of course in front of the SDP club, but I am speaking as mayor of all my colleagues and colleagues who are acting in that capacity, and here the MPs are that they try to loosen up their party discipline and vote on their conscience and accept these amendments that I believe the law will be much better. Here, so much in front of the SPD club. If our amendments are not respected, we will be restrained around this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89203	Thank you, fellow Vesligaiu. Next on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RIA Club is a colleague of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89204	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. We must be facing one of the essential laws for the functioning and operation of local self-government, i.e. their public utility companies. The proposal for this law in the first reading showed, I will say great dissatisfaction, but also great interest precisely because of the indeterminateness, indeterminateness, but also the illogicalness he had in that first reading. This final bill, compared to the first-reading bill, represents one significant improvement and, as the predecessors have said, it may be a new law. It is a good thing that the proposer has accepted most of our remarks that are highlighted in the parliamentary debate, and that according to this, the final proposal for the law has a number of significant differences compared to the first reading. And first of all, I want to point out what we think is positive, so that not only negative, I will start with positive things and what we are counting on and we are telling me that it is most positive, sure that the applicant has deleted one of the most controversial provisions of the first-reading law, which defines that a commercial company, which performs a purely entrusted communal activity, cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity. In view of the fact that such a legal solution, without any doubt, is wrong, it is good that the final proposal of the law, laid down that a commercial company carrying out a municipal activity, can also carry out other market activities, an economic activity with an obligation to carry out accounting operations for those activities separately. The next thing is good, as part of carrying out municipal activities, maintaining municipal infrastructure, it also enables the construction of municipal infrastructure. The following is that the operation of chimneys and the maintenance of decommissioning buildings is defined as a communal activity. That the maintenance of a section of public roads passing through the settlement has been wiped out as a communal activity. That units of local self-government in their area do not pay a municipal contribution, and the same is not paid for building and legalising firehouses, military buildings, transport, energy, water, maritime, communication and electronic communications, ground and underground... and the waters and sports and children's playgrounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we are not satisfied that they are not included and returned to the Law on the Communist Economy, Management, i.e. Disposal of municipal waste, water supply and disposal. So we're still thinking that these are municipal activities and what's a little bit of us, I'm going to say, we want to be careful, I'm not going to say that we're scared, but that right through the exception of that, these activities can be privatized tomorrow. What I must also point out as bad, or illogical, is a provision, which is disabled by its own drive, performing municipal activity in the area of the second unit of local self-government. That's where I ask myself why the legislator predicted it. I do not understand and logically, why restrict the units of local self-government in agreement and cooperation in the performance of certain tasks. I'll say, instead of just excluding it, being an incentive for cooperation, to make local self-government, to be more rational and to work together, this law will force local self-government units, especially those smaller municipalities that have no capacity to secure their own facilities, to go openings or new companies or new own facilities. We think it's irrational and we're kind of holding down units of local self-government. Next, I'll mention an article. In accordance with Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. We believe that this is absolutely no incentive measure because as far as we understand it, the promoter wanted through this law to set certain conditions and measures to encourage and invest, especially in production plants. With this article, we are simply postponing the payment of this municipal contribution, and it is not an incentive measure, because we are still burdening local self-government with red tape, and I don't think we need that right now. Furthermore, I will also highlight the provision of the article. Article 92(2), which excludes illegally built and subsequently legalised facilities, which are not equipped with total municipal infrastructure, from payment of municipal compensation. It puts itself that such buildings must be paid, i.e. there must be and there must be a obligation to pay the municipal fee, even if it is minimal, depending on both the equipment and the zone and on the coefficients. Why is it that someone completely, who was illegally building, to legalize afterwards, did not provide complete infrastructure for that area of the city or the municipalities, but some did, whether it was the connection el. energy, whether it's a water connection, whether it's public lighting, regardless of the degree of equipment of the zone, I think we should leave it to local self-government units to determine what the amount of that municipal fee will be. Next thing I know, it's an article. The 92nd paragraph of paragraph 5 and I am taking this opportunity to ask the question for which reason this item was even included in the final draft of the law, because it was not in the first reading. That's what my colleague Veslagaj mentioned now. It is a provision that garages and business premises, within military buildings and building land within a military location, are not considered garage and business premises, as well as building land, which serves as a business activity. Accordingly, these facilities do not have to be charged for municipal compensation. We in our club are the view that such a provision is unfair and that it creates differences, because it frees military facilities from paying the municipal fee without giving us any logical and valid reason. That's why I'm asking to be answered, which is why military facilities are released from paying the utility fee. I really don't see any good reason for that. To maybe simplify, if we own our garages, they're considered a business space, we're paying a communal fee, and the garage that's in a military facility is not a business space, and it's not a utility fee. Furthermore, I will also refer to Article 94(1), which is prescribed when the obligation to pay a municipal fee arises. This Article does not define the payment of a municipal fee for real estate that has led to the stage of the possibility of use and is not in use. To make it clear to you, so let's build a apartment building with apartments, whether the apartments for sale or rent go through a technical review, but a year, two, three, these apartments are empty. The second case, we inherit from our parents also one residential building that won't be operational, so it'll be empty, for that building the owner of the heir pays the communal fee, and the one who built the apartment, which is also empty, doesn't pay for that apartment. You'll give me an explanation, I read it like that from the law. That's where we make our differences again. The following ambiguity arises from Article 97(2) which prescribes that for business space and building land serving business activity, and where business activity is not carried out for more than 6 months in the calendar year, the coefficient shall be reduced by 50%. Do we stimulate someone to work in that business space or do we detimize them with it? And the question arises what about those business spaces that are, for example, in the city center and they are closed for a year, two, three, whether they will pay 50% of the municipal fees or have to pay, according to us, the same, even I would say more because they must be motivated in a way that they put that space into operation because otherwise such abandonment of business spaces, especially in the city center is one and the mockery and units of local self-government have with these areas of trouble. In addition to the above, I am of the opinion that the proponent in the infringement provisions has left out the case of sanctioning the debtor who does not report the beginning of the construction or not to report the payment of the municipal contribution for buildings that are built without a building permit. In that case, these bonds do not bear any sanctions and are imposed on the competent authority, i.e. again to local self-government units to establish within the legal time limit the existence of a obligation. That is why I feel it is necessary to oblige applicants to report and make commitments, and if they do not do so, there are sanctions. To conclude, however, this final proposal for a law is one of the better-quality legal solutions that has arisen thanks to both the great interest and the giving of concrete proposals by a number of stakeholders, as well as our club IDS, PGS and RIA. And I would like to stress that the IDS, PGS and RIA Club, in all our presentations and proposals, we have been guided by the principle against the privatisation of public enterprises, and thus the municipal infrastructure, and that such an opportunity will be avoided by just passing a new law and so on. That is why I expect the Proposer to accept these new proposals to make this law even better, and in that case our club would be willing to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89205	Thank you, colleagues. The next debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89206	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries and associates. There is a second reading of the Law on the Communist Economy, a law that has caused very many controversy and yet in one part has changed, and in this second reading, but still its fundamental meaning, so the essence of this law remains the same, and we in the Living Wall still see no reason to support this law. Here, first of all, I think of the attempt to introduce, at least in part, the failed Real estate law, also the powers given to communal directors are too great, so these people, I have to tell the public why, so according to article 113, they have the right to ask for your ID, have the right to look for your passport, copy from the court register, have the right to record you with a camera, have the right to record you with a video camera, with you, in your backyard, and when you are not there, I can, I don't know, photograph your yard, your house and on the basis of that to send you lawsuits, warnings, penalties, actually perform police services, and ask yourself the question alongside 30,000 living and healthy police officers in the Republic, which is why we now have 530 to introduce communal offices, how many local self-government units, which are going to the city police who are going to be beatings in the hands of local power, who will naturally abuse the power that they have so much like the same kind of the parties that are not going to go to the same way with the same kind of the parties. This, of course, comes first and foremost from the fact that in Croatia the territorial structure is completely wrongly set, means that it is too congested, that it serves exclusively to entangle party appliances at lower levels. Once again, one Austria that has almost 10 million inhabitants has 70 municipalities, Croatia which has less than 4 million has 428 municipalities, Austria has 15 cities, Croatia has 128 cities. So it's totally irrational, totally wrong, and what's most important of all of this unit of local self-government doesn't even meet their basic function, so it's only true that the mayor of the municipality together with a couple of other employees is doing some benefits at the expense of these municipalities, let's just say so, many of which unfortunately don't even have a million kunas of original incomes. So now imagine what we're discussing here, the communal directors, the local sheriffs, etc... I also don't understand why something is being introduced here that is leaving Europe, which is giving clear services to concessions. So everywhere in the world, it turns out that this model is not good because it ruins the price of service quality while at the same time increasing the price for end-users. So what's left out there, which turned out to be harmful, is what we want to introduce ourselves to. So now let's imagine that I don't know when to give a concession to someone to drive out. And I also don't understand why some MPs here say it's good to have the chimney activity inside the communal economy. I must again refer to the case of Slovenia, given that it is the most important to us, for example, smokemaking is not within the Law on the municipal economy, but there is a special law on smoking. If concessions are introduced for such services which absolutely makes no sense to me now that someone can determine you have to take that plumber, you have to take that electrician, so this fasadero, so these are normal services that need to be sought on the free market, which ultimately guarantees the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So for those who don't know Article 49. The Constitution says entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. Article 2(2), the State shall provide all entrepreneurs with an equal legal position on the market. Equal legal position. Now imagine, that someone who, for example, finishes a professional school, so he passed a master's exam, opens a craftsman, so in this particular case, a smoker, he can't do his job because someone in his field has a concession. And in order for the concession to be obtained, of course, a whole series of impossible conditions have been set up, let's say in Zagreb you have to have your company 60 smokers employed, you have to have 60 devices to measure the emissions of harmful gases, and each of these devices costs 3,000 euros, so you need to start some 300, 400 thousand euros in order to be able to even deal with the work you've been trained for and it's quite clear that it's about creating a monopoly that goes to harm not only craftsmen and entrepreneurs but I'm going to repeat it once again at the expense of the users themselves. So, for example, in Croatia, you have incredible cases to say for one concession that is the same, let's say you have in one municipality 10 thousand kunas, in another municipality 100 thousand kunas are paid, so there is a complete mess and there should be at least some of these activities like this chimney that I mentioned to separate from that system and bring a special law which would therefore be equal at the state level to therefore level prices and to achieve equal quality. Therefore, because of these three points that I have now mentioned, which is therefore too much of the powers of the municipal directorship that have essentially been given powers that are within the jurisdiction of the police. The second thing, because the municipal compensation coefficients are partly prescribed by the failed Real Estate Act and because concessions are given, means for public services that should not be given the Living Wall will not be supported by the Law on the Community Economy and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89207	Thank you very much, colleagues Branimir Bunjc. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89208	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The importance of the Law on the Communist Economy should not be particularly highlighted by the fact that, apart from two laws, it is a key law that regulates the way, model and work of cities and municipalities throughout the Republic of Croatia, thereby directly affecting the lives of citizens and the arrangements of local self-government units themselves. It has already been said here and it should certainly be pointed out that the first law was passed in '95. A year. In these 23 years, it has been changed 18 times, and it is particularly important to highlight the problem that the law has been amended, and for the reason that other laws have changed in this case been affected by the Water Law, the Waste Management Act and the Law on burial activity, and certain businesses have ceased to be a municipal activity. From what I've said, it turns out we've practically had 23 years of experience since the introduction of a new structure of the Republic of Croatia there in '93. year since the formation of units of local self-government in the form of today, so for the past 25 years so much has happened that we have enough experience to pass quality law at this point. What should also be pointed out, but also commended by the legislator to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry that the debate in the first reading was taken very seriously, that all those remarks that we have raised here were from different sides whether from opposition or positions in some way or had been installed or accepted or in a modified form incorporated into this law. It is not surprising, therefore, that this Final Bill proposal has seen so many major changes in its first reading, and they are taxing in the reasons for all and above. What we remember earlier, among other things, was the maintenance of public roads that passed through the settlement. It's been erased as a communal activity and that's good. The name of the activity of the transport of passengers in public transport is replaced by the name of the communal line transport of passengers. There's a unit of local self-government that uses such a possibility. And what I think is a little bit of a discussion, somewhere here in this part of the debate we've heard and heard, I don't see why it's disabled by its own drive to perform municipal activity in the area of the second unit of local self-government. We have always spoken, and we always say that cooperation between neighbouring cities and municipalities should be at a high level because one another makes the backbone of life in a particular area in one county or one of our areas, whether it is Gorski Kotar, Primorje, Dalmatia, Lika or Slavonia, I see no reason how much one, let's say so, unit of local self-government city or municipalities that has a better budget could not in any way help in maintaining certain activities of a weaker unit that is not able to do so. However, I also respect the motionor's position, they have probably consulted enough to resolve the part in this way. It was also deleted from the provision which prohibited the commercial company carrying out its municipal activity from performing other market activities at the same time. There we were quite fierce, if we remember the committees, but also here debate in the Parliament because we felt, we felt justifiably and grateful to the legislator of the Law which he had observed, that municipal societies owned by units of local self-government are companies, they have in their description the business of carrying out municipal activities, but I really did not see as here and our club that in that part should put a limit if they had free space, why would they not appear with their quality or their work and on the market, and there was a well-proposer who introduced that regulation where the obligation to conduct separate accounting operations is so that there would be no doubt in that part. There were fierce resistances and municipal companies from the entire Republic of Croatia owned by units of local self-government that also carried out funeral activities for certain cities and municipalities. This is where the promoter also appreciated that attitude. We come here then after a whole series of accepted proposals and suggestions during the first debate, and then from the association of cities, associations of municipalities, and us Assembly representatives to art. 84th century, 2nd century. I personally see absolutely no reason why unlike any other who invest in any unit of local self-government, the Law would be freed from paying certain entities of municipal contribution until the moment of obtaining the applicable authorisation. A useful permit is something that when we look at in the complete process from the start of the investment, something that happens at the end before the start of the drive into function. In this part, the legislator provided for the release or payment of the municipal contribution only by the power of the building permit, not by the power of the building permit, as for all other entities that are building, but by the power of the applicable authorisation, which we believe is wrong and in some way favours certain investors. It is understandable in the part where it is stated that it is some kind of production activity, it is understandable that it states that it is some kind of storage activity and that kind of doing business ultimately, but it is not understandable that we are bound in such a way that it is only then possible to adopt... The more I personally believe and think that this is the attitude of everyone here, and especially the head of the local self-government unit, that the Republic of Croatia, with its 548 units of local regional self-government, has already begun through these 23 years with the realization of a number of projects, that the Law on the Communist Economy has revived and that in the field it shows very good results and what is good should not be abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The more this Law proposal, as well as the Law so far, and now little in the larger form of cities and municipalities, is allowed to make decisions, and among other things, not this decision to pay a municipal contribution by obtaining a valid permit, but even there is the possibility of being freed in a reduced percentage if the interest of the city or the municipality is thus the conclusion of the city council and the leaders of the unit of local self-government and the release and payment in wars. So it goes out to the investor maximum. For this reason, I do not see any difference why such a provision should be prescribed by law when cities and municipalities are already allowed to make that part of the provision by their own decisions. A representative unit of local self-government is allowed to prescribe general conditions and reasons for which, in individual cases, a partial or full exemption from payment of the municipal contribution is granted. I'm reading this from an explanation. So, in some ways with this provision from Art. 84th century, 2nd century, we jump into our own mouths. If we have allowed the city or the municipality to free someone entirely, to free someone in a certain percentage, or to make it possible to pay them on a cost-effective basis, then why by law determine that this one pays only at that time? So that's the one thing I consider personal, here I am in front of the club, that's where I'm supposed to make that correction. There has been a lot of debate here about garages and business spaces within military buildings and building land within a military location are not considered garage and residential spaces and building land for which municipal compensation is paid. If we observe that the defence is an army of interest to all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we can ask ourselves, is that not also health care? Isn't that some kind of KBC, a hospital or some other similar facility, but considering that all these funds and donations are paid out of the state budget, we can accept a solution like this here. This was about reducing the powers of municipal directors in implementing the decision on municipal order and Article 112. Whoever opposes or opposes such a provision provided for in Article 112 clearly ignores the fact of all that is happening in the field. In my view, municipal redistribution was needed and a little more power for reasons if you take a walk in any city, municipality, so here and around Zagreb, look a little on the side of the road, look at those channels, look at me even in the area of the industrial zone where we have all the video surveillance or in the coast what's going on? When many, unfortunately, have to say, unconscious citizens often and businessmen, craftsmen at reconstruction do not know what kind of buildings charge the investor to transport construction waste, this construction waste ends where? Right in the space of the local self-government unit, somewhere along the road, somewhere in some meadow, and if we tie our hands to communal redistribution, then the picture of all of it will be worse, and I think whoever's here has been arguing that the communal directors have too much authority, I think that's where it's wrong. The more the local self-government unit, or the city or the municipality does nothing about it, the more the more that they notice our citizens, the more they warn, the more the local self-government unit, or the city or the municipality, about doing nothing about it. So when we look at this document through these 23 years of experience, through a first-reading debate and through a whole series of adopted remarks and proposals that the legislator has seen well, well embedded in this law, I think this law is something that should be accepted in any case, with little corrections, and this will be the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club. At any moment when we are discussing any law, and especially about this law that regulates what is going to happen on the ground, which affects the lives of every citizen, and we all aim to make life more orderly, to build infrastructure and to contribute together in a way to the development, how the cities of the municipalities, how to fill the budget with sufficient funds for new investments, for new construction, and certainly to stress the importance of the municipal economy and the spending of the funds because they are paid by our citizens, pay for their standard. The public compensation definitely in the maintenance sense and all infrastructures, the municipal contribution to the construction of the infrastructure and, in any case, the law of P.Z. Number 264 will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89209	Thank you, colleague Klaric. The next debate on behalf of the club is a debate by counterpart Milorad Batinic on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89210	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this Law on municipal activity. I will take a brief look at what has been debated on both committees and in this assembly, and I will also briefly go through the most significant changes that I consider to be necessary highlighted and where I see that there is a likelihood in the application, given the possibility or inability to apply certain articles of this law in the implementation of this law, will probably be approached through a certain period of time perhaps on certain adjustments. Yeah, there have been some changes, I wouldn't say any copernicus twist, as noted in the discussion between the two readings. This is precisely what it proves to be important, how much it is necessary for laws that, in some ways, such as this Law on municipal activity, determine, define and organise life in the local community. First of all, I consider it to be a positive change with regard to organisational forms, i.e. utility companies or in any other way, which is possible and not exclusively to carry out municipal activity, but to perform in certain utility companies, to deal with and some even to market or some of the other activities that utility companies owning local self-government units are carrying out. Mostly because this law, meaning this part that has changed since the first reading, is the reality of the Republic of Croatia, although as a liberal, I think we must always strive for a better advance, I fear it would cause far greater earthquakes than perhaps to slow down certain implementation of certain reforms, reorganisation and at a local level through this basic law alone. What I certainly said in the work that maybe the implementation of this law itself, especially in the part of the communal order and the jurisdiction of the communal order, I speak from experience at the local level, from the level of local self-government, is a long time ago, and I can say that with this part of jurisdiction and what the communal director, which he has, given the jurisdiction, not only according to this municipal law, but by, I think, 8 other laws, lex specialists, who also define the authority and jurisdiction of the communal order, I'm afraid that we have little, in relation to the first reading, that we cut him, I'm going to use that term. But this does not mean that its functionality will be prevented to that level, to be fully dysfunctional. I understand and absolutely in HNS we advocate private property and the availability of private ownership, but when we talk about the part, then we talk about those negative examples, unfortunately, where neither the inspection service nor the police escort can edit. So unfortunately, it will be in this case. As for some details, I'll go through the articles, absolutely, and I'll comment on these amendments, the parent board, as far as art is concerned. 25. and chimneys, which in part of their specificity are regulated by another law, we absolutely accept this amendment when it is said to be part... The fuel erases, because we are witnessing at a local level what is the necessity of smoking, which is the responsibility and if this part remains on solid fuel, I'm afraid those parts of the household, which are heated to some other fuel, specifically to gas, so that it certainly doesn't spend it, but the smoke pipelines are unsupervised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to distinguish the part about consumer control, water heaters, gas pipelines, specifically, in the part of the open household from the chimney itself, so we certainly support this part of the amendment. I had already been and initially said, that companies, they were left with the possibility, I would say, adjustments, even though they are trends and trends, that we would have to think in perspective about the part where we talked about communal companies, as was said in the first reading. So let's make one turn and that the communal activity, i.e. the business, which, which is part of the communal activity, can't be exclusive and not exclusive, but now in practice we only have good ones, we have bad ones as well. As for the price of municipal service, so it's not something radical, this law, compared to the old, previous law, a lot of things are left the same or practically, I'd say, novelty, in terms of improvement. What has also caused opposition, Art. 55. means that the provider of the municipal service is obliged, the price of the municipal service it provides to supplement, obtain the previous consent of the mayor means executive... It has nothing to do with this law or are proposals to think of a representative body, it exclusively has a law on local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He gave the leaders of local self-government that jurisdiction of enforcement and responsibility. So the objections to this bill have absolutely nothing to do with this law, nor in this law can we introduce any other provision that does not conform to a lex specialist. It is a very clearly defined municipal infrastructure, its legal status, and certainly, it will be registered to those units of local self-government that have not yet done so, much simpler and more elegant to say so, to make entry into land books. That part, now without any fences, without any percentage amounts, is very clearly defined what construction is, which is the maintenance of municipal infrastructure and from which construction, maintenance of municipal infrastructure, can be financed. It is absolutely this law defined and autonomy is the representative body that brings the budget and the programmes. As well as financing, as regards the communal contribution, there were certain obstacles, and I am absolutely acceptable for several reasons, and especially for reasons relating to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Just for what reason? All those units of local self-government that are proactive, and the vast majority, where they have some significant income from a municipal contribution, are freed by their decisions under investors and even longer than that. And I can understand that certain dynamics are inflowing funds based on municipal contributions, they may disrupt certain plans, but not to a degree, to question the construction of municipal infrastructure for these purposes. So I support this part. I say, with this not only as a local self-government, but also as a state we send a very clear, concrete message to potential investors, but as a state of Croatia. Now, what I used to say most in my first reading and where I initially pointed out that I believed that it would have to come in view of the application of certain articles of the law, practice would show its own, it's communal order. Mostly the biggest problem, but again I say these are individual cases, which throw away a very bad picture, irresponsible citizens, a decision on the municipal order in practice primarily the communal directors. We know that even according to the rule, so it has to be a minimum medium professional cook, it's got to go through certain educations, implementations under this law follow another 8 laws, not to say everything from waste, animal protection, mass is that, I would even say too much. I had pointed out the thinking of one which would obviously show whether I was right, that, whether a particular part or even a special law, I should not give up on that, and would be extremely important for the functioning of local self-government, would make it much easier and far more effective for the public order and all those competencies that communal directors under other law on enforcement and local self-government, I believe that it would be much simpler and far more effective and far more effective for the local self-government itself. On the Committee on Local Self-Government, we are in favour, one amendment has been tabled, that is to Article 104. So the arrangement that speaks of the arrangement of the settlement, the front of the garden, the courtyard, is the original saying, is the work that was done on the surface of the public purpose. The amendment goes to the goal not to which it is exposed, but to which it is visible. So that practical part that's visible to the communal director so he can act. Exposure can be something else for a clearer interpretation. In the work that prescribes the powers of the communal director, nothing has changed more or less. I only hope that if we read Article 112, and this practice will either be denied or confirmed, point 4. collects evidence and determines the facts in a visual and other appropriate manner (photography, camera recording, video recording). And now I'm going back to this part of Article 104 so it's part of the private surface that's visible, the amendment has been accepted. Are we not going to come to some kind of personal data protection confrontation? The GDPR Act? Is the recording of the private surface allowed, unless you have the authority to enter, or will have to practice, with the support of the police, not to be attacked, but to be allowed in at all, whether or not a court order will have to be sought, whether this law in the executive work is sufficient for the communal director to carry out these tasks. They're just my dilemmas. I hope so in practice, but that's why I say practice will show us. This is at this point, and I have no reason to doubt, nor do I have any reason to doubt the promoter, because this has passed the coordination of other resolution ministries, I'm just wondering if it will actually work that way. As far as we're concerned, there's been a lot of speeches, and I've also suggested to my colleague Bulju that an amendment article be given to some water supply xyz there. In fact, I understand the political context, this is a political pay phone, but I also find it irresponsible to say something regulated by other laws, especially water supply, disposal, waste management, in the context of this law. Although it is all within the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit and are in some way considered communal affairs. And in the end, the HNS club will support, and I would like this law to be brought back to life as soon as possible in practice and that the communal directors have as little need for interventions as possible and as little as possible by the order of irresponsible citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89211	Thank you very much. And the last debate on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate by a colleague of Mladen Madjer on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89212	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. The Law on the municipal economy, here we have seen it is very important regarding the units of local self-government, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the public interest. Here is a series of remarks that came in the first, between the first and second readings and the first readings was greatly improved and many remarks were made from the assembly debate. However, here are some other remarks that we propose on behalf of the HSS Club, and we will propose certain amendments, and here is Article 23(1), under the maintenance of unclassified roads, we believe that it is in no way averted to indicate that this involves cleaning and cleaning of unclassified roads from snow and ice in winter conditions, regardless of the above mentioned in Article 26 of the Law on the representative body of the units, although the units of local self-government can determine any other communal activity. Then Article 25(5) is good that chimneys are returned to the law since the first reading was not and we consider that under chimneys the cleaning and control of all chimneys, not only those on solid fuels, since smokers are trained to control all kinds of heating and it is good that it is accepted and incorporated into this law. Article 39 is amended as follows: By establishing its own facilities, it may be necessary to restrict to larger units of local self-government by the number of inhabitants, or only cities, or possibly to enable the joint establishment of several units of local self-government, because for small units of local self-government, local self-governments are not capable because of under-employees and too little budgetary, financial resources. Also in the discussion between these readings, counterpart Ana-Marie Petin said it would be good to expand the municipal activity to other municipal services, such as deratization and disinsectation, which would ultimately mean lower prices for citizens' services. It is clear that it is not accepted because the local self-government unit can make its own decision on the organisation of deratiation or disinsection. But here's the suggestion is yes, so it wasn't a problem to put it into communal activity after all. Then we have article 44, paragraph 1. 5, why the maintenance of public lighting concessions. The same is not evident from the reasons of the applicant and so far the maintenance of public lighting has been awarded through a written contract on the performance of municipal activity, so why has the applicant now decided to grant public lighting through concession. Article 84 of the municipal contribution, which was a lot of speech, primarily means a communal contribution not to be paid before the construction permit has been issued, as has been the case so far, to attract investors. It is clear that it is aimed at every local self-government unit to attract as many investors as possible in its field of employment as possible, all but has a number of opportunities that can attract investors rather than directly the local self-government unit. And I don't think it's right for a municipal contribution to be paid only after obtaining a useful permit because it can, in cases, happen that the investor stops because of certain problems of financial or other difficulties and stops in half construction and does not complete the facility and does not get a useful permit. What about communal contributions, then? Therefore, here is the proposal from the HSS Club, which would not make it limited if, within a year of the start of the investment, no municipal contribution had been paid since the start of the construction. Because however, the municipal contribution is directly to the units of local self-government and I note that the state has a number of opportunities to attract an investor and not in this way to virtually damage local self-government units. Then, units of local self-government are due from 6 months to a year to adapt their business to this new legal solution, which will again create a major administrative barrier. Unfortunately, we believe that such major changes to the law are not good and that they will again contribute to the slowdown of the administration. Such a legislative solution puts before the representative body the adoption of 7 new decisions which will regulate further work and we all know that decision-making under the applicable regulations precedes consultation with the interested public, a report on the implementation of the consultation, adoption of representative bodies, supervision of legality, official publication, publication in official messengers, all of which requires a lot of time and slows the work of local self-government units with their daily obligation to employees and it is difficult to implement this within this deadline. And we believe that units of local self-government are becoming increasingly entrenched in various obligations while JLS's revenues are still low even though they have increased, we welcome the Tax Policy Act where income to local self-government units is increasing and that more employees in local self-government units need to be employed which will be able to carry out the range of jobs within their domain. And I think that here in the Parliament we must stress that in these public bodies there are not too many employees as perception is created towards the outside that there are too many employees in local self-government units but that's not true. And as a longtime head of local self-government units, I know that this is not true because more and more obligations are being imposed towards local self-government units and the same units of local self-government are also limited by wages that cannot be paid more than 20% of the original income, which also makes it impossible for certain new employment. We now have in Article 24(1) of the same mortuary activity where the HSS will submit an amendment that municipal companies in local self-government units have done these jobs so far and there is no reason not to do so in the future. Cemetery activity brings significant income to municipal enterprises and provides citizens with cheaper and more quality services. In addition, Article 40 adds the proposal, paragraph 5, which states that the local government's own utility can carry out operations in another unit of local self-government according to the signed agreement, which should primarily enable the co-operation of two local self-government units, i.e. that the municipal drive can do services to another unit of local self-government, we also say that small units are local self-government and why they should not allow the association of two local self-government units, by establishing one plant that can operate in another unit of local self-government and they sign a cooperation agreement and to the benefit of citizens in these two or more local self-government units. Here are some of the proposals, and I note, as I did in the initial presentation, that this Law on Community Activity is very important for citizens and units of local self-government and for these many proposals and amendments that came between the first and second readings, the HSS Club is the same attitude because it will submit amendments, the proposal to be implemented, that we consider it justified that the debate of this law be conducted in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89213	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the MPs' club. The following is reported by counterpart Branko Bačić, but his colleagues, Branko Bačić, does not have one, and in accordance with Article 233, loses the right to speak on the subject of the agenda. After that, Miro Bulj was reported, also the same explanation for counterpart Branko Bačić. The third application is counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Same explanation for the previous two colleagues. The next application is from counterpart Petar Škoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89214	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the introduction at the outset said that since 1995 this law has been changed 18 times and that it was necessary to fully edit it in the first reading. I have made certain remarks, proposals concerning improving the municipal service to citizens, and I have put an accent on the companies owned by units of local self-government, specifically funeral societies, and it has been corrected, so it was intended to get rid of part-round economic activities other than funeral and burial business, and it is good that this is returned because, by calling on European standards, it has been put into place that profitable activities that should not be engaged in local communities but in private societies, we also testify in other European countries that we have the same situation, we have a more specificity of pastry owned by cemeteries, we have restaurants for carmines in many European countries, so it is good that this is corrected and I support this amendment. Here, I would give a further accent on just one proposal which is obviously lagging behind, which concerns practically the chimney service where it is put in place to enable chimneys to perform cleaning and control of all hatching devices, to put this word out on solid fuel, because we know that there are chimneys that do not only use solid fuel devices, in this way it is unnecessarily regulated by law that makes it impossible to practically perform these tasks for other types of energy that are being used, so that I will give the amendment and the proposal to remove this word "on solid fuel" from this proposal and, as such, I absolutely accept this law which will in many ways improve the system of municipal management and make it easier for companies that are doing this activity, therefore, will solve a number of misunderstanding and in any case, I accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89215	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Davor Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89216	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Škorić, here you have welcomed some of the good details that have been respected from the debate, and I know that through the debate in the community of municipalities and cities, that these facilities of the military that are in certain units of local self-government are also not good for us to put it in order not to pay a municipal contribution to them because there are units of local self-government that are interested in giving them these facilities for use, there is still the Ministry of State property that has not been resolved until they are resolved, and since the Ministry of Defence has declared them unspective, it is now only a cost, the unit of local self-government has to maintain and clean them up, so it would be logical that they remain obliged to pay the municipal contribution and thus increase the revenues of the units of local self-government and, on the other hand, would press the Ministry of State property to speed up these processes and to give it to the interested units of local self-government, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89217	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89218	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow, I accept your comments, suggestions, but I think this is not about this law but about the Ministry of State Property that this should be resolved in other matters, but here I will use the reply to the replica, so I will also specifically underline to the promoter Article 25 paragraph 5 so that under the last item under the chimney business, it means cleaning and control of chimneys, smoke pipelines and solid fuel disposal devices in buildings. We would only ask that the word "hard fuel" be cast out, and I believe you will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89219	Thank you. The next application debate is co-worker Grozdana Peric, she is not here and losing her right. Here she is, don't lose your right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89220	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here, as most colleagues have already mentioned, this is an extremely important law that applies to units of local self-government and whose revenues are in most cases more than 30% of the income of local self-government units. What I would point out is that this law has really been changed countless times, even 18 times, but what is important from a legal point of view is to note that only in this bill is the communal fee of monetary and public giving. So far, we have mentioned from the local self-government units that it must be characterized as such because it is, for example. The law on water it for compensation for water editing defined a long time ago and then the very process of collection and treatment of these debts actually was a lot different. Thus far, the Law on Mandatory Relations has been applied to these claims, and now it will be possible to apply which is the only logically general tax code, and then the deadlines are much longer and the collection process itself is much more efficient and quality. I would point out that the law has experienced a number of changes, but I think that it is quite qualitative and quality in fact structured, so in the case of municipal activities that are numbered here are actually structured through 8 activities, and in particular service activities have been singled out, and then it is defined how these service activities can be regulated, or that they can also be concessioned, as compared to the previous law of change, because concessions were provided for in the previous law in drinking water supply., disposal, wastewater treatment and depletion and feces management. It is very high-qualityly defined here now and what is actually in article 59 of the municipal infrastructure, where it is taxed so that there is no longer any possibility to misapply it in any way, so here I point out this as a very high-quality shift. Also in Article 70 of the construction costs of municipal infrastructure, observations have been observed, and among other things there are the costs involved in the construction of projects and other documentation, as well as the implementation of the acts necessary for the sale, construction and use of municipal infrastructure buildings and all other costs which are possible here and which could not be included before. They have already mentioned before about Article 84, which refers to the collection of the municipal contribution where the municipal contribution to the buildings is charged according to the issue or by the power of the building permit except for those buildings which serve the production and production purpose under the power of the use of the permit. It is clear that certain shifts should have been made although some units may see obstacles or shortcomings in this, however, it should indeed be driven by production and production and thus actually make it easier for such businesses to actually do so and that the burden of all costs is lower in the beginning and normally, each such one is in the interest to reverse self-production as quickly as possible and thus pay its commitments. Article 92 is already mentioned for military facilities, namely, there are units of local self-government where these facilities are large and numerous, and then there is such a part that reduces the passages of these possible facilities for these units of exceptional importance and perhaps, in other ways, should be regulated since such units make up even 1/3 of the budget. It is commendable, on the other hand, that it is noted that in relation to the communal fee for hotels, apartment settlements and camps that the level of annual municipal fees cannot exceed 1.5% of the total annual income, I think it is good because it would not be good to have you and such facilities burdened with larger and significant amounts because in any case it does not encourage the development of that activity. Some colleagues mentioned a way of calculating and preparing actually for real estate tax, but apparently they did not actually follow that the Law on the Communist Economy had previously had exactly all of these coefficients listed here, so nothing here has changed compared to all these previous 18 changes. So there's always been a way and how the amount of municipal compensation is accounted for, and that's a multiple of the area's coefficient, the use coefficient of the utility point. It's always that, here we have kept your ranges as they were in the previous Law. So, they haven't been changed, but it's always been important with which starting value points move and individual units local self-government because then it actually multiples the amount I'm going to be required to pay. In any case, I hold that a great distance has been made and that the application of this Law will be much better and simpler, and I also think that indeed municipal directors must have the power to edit in the areas of local self-government units and that, in fact, the communal order, and thus their interventions as much as possible, so that the law can be implemented as best possible. Here, I think this is a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89221	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89222	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Assistant Minister. I'd like the same word on the communal fee or the communal contribution. Both the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation are the units of local self-government and only their representative bodies, city councils and municipal councils decide on their height or their release. Therefore, I do not see the meaning of this article which speaks of the coefficients of purpose, or again with these coefficients of purpose, limiting cities and municipalities to make despite the fact that they bring value points to make a difference and motivate certain investors or property owners. It says that the living space should have a coefficient of purpose 1 and we all go from that coefficient. However, the business space for production activity cannot be less than 1 if a particular unit of local self-government wants to motivate, attracts a particular investor because we know that production activities generally employ a larger number of employees, so why not have that coefficient lower than the one that builds housing. Furthermore, we see again in the next paragraph that for business premises and construction land that serve to carry out business activities in the event that business activity is not carried out for more than 6 months, it can be reduced by 50%. We have interpretations of cities and municipalities have come up with interpretations which are living space for which to pay communal compensation and there stands and here in this Law, those who have a useful license, we know that the used permit will get an object that has a connection to the infrastructure means on the power grid, draining and plumbing. However, numerous housing areas have not been brought in for purpose. There's no means for them to get all dressed up. So, or they don't have furniture or anything like that, they've never been in office, and according to this Law and so far they need to be paid a communal fee in full amount, which I don't think is right, and that the promoter should take a little bit of account of such housing. Well, through a couple of lines, I would like to stress that the production activities are also being taken into account, that this municipal fee is reduced and allowed for cities and municipalities to even for residential spaces that are not brought in purpose, that either decreases or at the end-ends do not drop a solution on the calculation of the municipal fee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89223	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, when we talk about the Law that is before us today and which deals with the issue of municipal activities and everything in the domain of the unit of local self-government, it is impossible not to mention some of the things that happen in Croatia and that are sometimes left to local self-government units, which in nature things should be what the city or municipalities or local self-government units are dealing with as such. For example, when we talk about Zagreb, at this point we have a situation where two stakeholders struggle over one big job, which is to maintain public lighting. One group that is close to the current mayor and another group that is close to the coalition partner of the current mayor of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, where it is the HDZ, you all know it and instead of meeting its purpose, which is that the money of the city's taxpayers or what it collects through a cut, through all other tax revenues, is used to meet its municipal public services in a way that ensures quality, provides savings, uses its capacity, and there are indeed many, and now we in the city of Zagreb have a tendency that the company will be closer and which company will receive a job worth millions and millions of kuna at any time, and in fact it is about the competition of interest groups. And that is what I want to warn here, and I warn that both the city and the county, the municipality or any unit of local self-government must have clear criteria, which is essentially a clear communal activity and activity of the city, and what is on the market. Is the transport of citizens a communal activity and what the city should provide, or is it also subject to the market? Clearly, the answer is clear in itself because many of these lines that are maintained simply are not commercial and cannot be commercialized in a way that privates enter such activities. The same thing is, for example, here and with public lighting, where, of course, the city always pays only this way that some private people make extra profits compared to what the city could do alone through its utility companies, especially when it comes to cities that have big budgets, there's a lot of money going out for me girl non-transparently, the service is not standardised because, for example, in the city of Zagreb, the most logical thing is that in the city of Zagreb, public lighting is sometimes old and 50, 60, 70 years old, these bandits just don't fall down and they don't crash, instead of building a quality project and that city companies do and that citizens get what they pay for their money, and it's quality public lighting and cheaper than it has been, and space certainly exists. For example, when I see a town like Sisak that's going hard into this whole renewable energy story, with something that spends far less energy than it spends in the city of Zagreb, I wonder why it is not done in the city of Zagreb? So a very important law, a very important question that needs to be defined. Relations between the municipal economy and administrative areas, meaning what exactly municipal activities are and these things should be clearly defined so that our citizens know what the role of the local self-government unit is and how they can use benefits from them. Because we, I can tell you unfortunately in the city of Zagreb a little bit and lost in all the combinations as citizens, we simply don't see what it is and how the city can do better, what private people do, so we have, for example, situations where utility companies do certain jobs from city councils and leave these jobs to private companies, there's big money in the game. It is that sometimes prices are almost incredibly high compared to what is marketable, and our city councils in the city of Zagreb cannot carry out and own their own money. Zagreb is particularly important because I think it deserves to be decentralised as far as city councils are concerned, not that they are just advisory bodies, and that these tens of millions of kunas, which on average have city quarter councils, are spent in the way that citizens from Maksimir, Trnja, Pestice, Novi Zagreb, and not in a way that they suggest city administration, and then spend over Zrinjevac, city roads, Zagreb roads, which then have prices that are rarely much higher than they should be. So a lot of questions, a very complex law. What should also be defined is a violation, that is, things that local self - government leaders cannot do. We've had such situations that certain money collected by municipal fees is spent on other things that shouldn't be, so it takes a lot more transparency than it's ever been before. I hope that this law will achieve and that we will finally be satisfied with what we have. As far as municipal infrastructure is concerned, it is not only a question of the local self-government unit that we in cities like Zagreb have parts of the city where there is still no basic municipal infrastructure, it is a water that some households in the city of Zagreb do not have, so we also need to make some transparency in order for people to see a direct correlation between the money collected and what they invest in. Of course, there is always a question and a tax which the HDZ Government has allocated, which is a property tax that should be replaced in some future municipal compensation, in some parts I am absolutely against introducing a property tax given the structure of our citizens who have one history and we cannot compare ourselves with countries like Germany, Italy. When we have income as citizens, when our citizens have incomes as citizens of Germany and the UK, then we can think about such things. Until then, the less burden, the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89225	Thank you, fellow Marasu. We have a replica on his display. Comrade Robert Dolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When you mentioned a public lighting contract in the city and spoke of it most of the time, I would like to draw your attention that something very important happened in this final proposal of the law regarding this topic that you were talking about, and that is, if this law in that text was accepted, that the agreement on the granting of municipal activity would be concluded by the head of the executive body instead of the present representative body, so this would now be done by the mayor, so that, for my unexplainable reasons, the period on which such a contract would be concluded. Under the current law, the deadline is 4 years, 4 years were foreseen by the bill. In the final proposal, the deadline is gone. So according to this legislative solution proposed, you could get a contract that would have been concluded by the mayor on a law undefined period of time, which means a lot longer than 4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89227	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89228	Thank you very much, Mr. Downhill. So maybe what you're talking about right now is the reason why the town hall session is interrupted twice, so that this agenda item doesn't come up for debate. Perhaps the mayor of the City of Zagreb and most of the city's assembly, meaning HDZ, are deliberately awaiting tomorrow's adoption of this law, so that the mayor can sign with his powers the contract which is obviously favored throughout the process, and we have read in the media with whom it is connected. You wouldn't be surprised if that were the case, twice the city council broke up with work because of the lack of quorum, because one of the majority was not and it's possible to wait for tomorrow's adoption of this law to take the whole business away from the public's eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89229	Thank you fellow Marasu and the last individual debate, colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89230	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, assistant, here, I've been offered a hearing. First of all, say that the proposal that we have today is greatly improved in relation to the proposal we had in our first reading. And I think it's extremely important for our units of local and regional self-government, which are one of the fundamental laws, based on which they work daily. But what I actually came forward for, which is actually a re-reaction and re-reaction of both the mayors and mayors of my county, and related to the order of the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I find this arrangement in fact in some way constitutionally questionable. And why is that? We have a decision of the Constitutional Court, related to the law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and it is, in particular, related to the submission of requests for the assessment of constitutionality by individual units of local and regional self-government, associations of cities and associations of counties. And the Constitutional Court's decision has just said that the Republic of Croatia is an obligation to pay municipal compensation and that it cannot be released in this way by law. So what the Constitutional Court has said is that the municipal fee is actually the direct right of the unit of local self-government means its original income and when we talk about the rights and constitutional rights of the local self-government unit, that it manages its own revenues, then the Constitutional Court has taken the view that the only unit of local and regional self-government can free itself from paying the municipal fee. For precisely the reason why I would not want to have in the future a re-examination of constitutionality and the basis of this law, I have come to the debate to warn you of this and to warn you once more that you should consider it, because many of our units of local and regional self-government are actually damaged by such exceptions, their local budgets are damaged and in little amount. I think it would be wise to consider giving up the exemption, and once we have a regulation of the coefficients of use in the law itself, to determine some appropriate, lower compensation coefficient and thus try to solve this problem in a proportionate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89231	Thank you, too. On your exhibit we have one replica, colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89232	Dear colleagues, I fully support your debate. The original income of the unit of local self-government communal compensation, a municipal contribution, such as the original income of the state budget, VAT paying units of local self-government for everything they build in their area. And I don't think this part of the law would be allowed to touch that part of the payment obligation any more than we have the Constitutional Court ruling. And here I point out again, problem art. 84. paragraph 2. where local self-government units are also granted dedicated revenue for the construction of infrastructure only after obtaining... and this means prolonging the receipt of funds to the city budget a few years later in relation to the current situation with the current law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89233	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89234	Thank you very much. That a colleague, just about what you added, a communal contribution, is there, so I didn't even mention in the debate, somewhat controversial and art. 77, which also exempts military buildings from paying the municipal contribution, therefore, I believe that we should really try to find a solution, which would really be in line with the Constitution, if we bear in mind the provision of the Constitution and the provision of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, where it really shouldn't, not according to the Constitutional Court's decision, but the Law on the municipal economy itself affects and creates exceptions to the payment of the municipal fee, bearing in mind independence in financing and self-government of local units and regional units of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89235	Thank you. And on behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89236	Thank you very much. I thank you for the whole debate, everyone who participated in the Law of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy. I hope that the law has managed to satisfy the majority in this House especially because these major changes and numerous changes occurred after the first debate of which, of course, it was not possible to meet all the requirements, given that there were both conflicting demands, and today there were a lot of conflicting demands especially about the communal directors, one more, the other would be less. However, given what has been done by this law and what improvements have been made in this law and, in particular, compliance with other laws, we cannot even change some real ones. So all those issues that have been raised today regarding why some of the activities have not yet been returned to the Law on the Communist Economy, which is water supply, disposal and disposal of waste, the answers are exactly the same as they were in the first reading because these other laws have already been settled, normised in accordance with European rules and in accordance with the specificities of these other specific laws that regulated the area. Now the Law on the municipal economy cannot again or double prescribe certain activities. That's just impossible. So water supply and disposal, waste disposal in special laws to detail regulated. Then there were questions of a low coefficient for the municipal compensation of untapped construction land, resulting from what is now... The coefficient in the current law and the basic statutes for writing this law were not to impose new fiscal burdens on the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The time limits for concessions are not fixed, again because the debate has resulted in the first reading that the deadlines are simply not acceptable because there are different activities in which concessions are given and then regulation for each activity in particular, and in particular by requiring greater freedom of local self-government units to determine as much as possible in this area, and then there is also the day of freedom to set deadlines for the duration of concessions. Liberation of certain types of real estate, such as What is also repeatedly potential in the discussion of military real estate, Article 92 paragraph 5, is that the Constitutional Court has already discussed it but is one important distinction from what is now offered in this legal solution and this was a general release and one group or all military properties have been released and this is what the Constitutional Court has said is unacceptable. It can't be generalized and freed. We now go differently, not all military properties, but specific military properties that would cause an excessive burden for our army, an excessive burden. So all these other properties will continue to be paid by the military, not generally excluded from that obligation. So in that part, we do not see any question about the constitutionality of such provisions. Why the shift in the payment of the municipal contribution from, for warehouses and production buildings, production purposes from the moment when the powerful building permit is momentarily beyond the power of the applicable permit? We appreciate that, we tried that in the first reading but it was not accepted by most, and we adapted this text of the law in a way that all other buildings were obliged, for them investors to pay a municipal contribution under the power of building permits and only these two, only these two types of warehouses and production purposes, to move behind obtaining a valid use permit. So it's just these two groups of buildings, total minimalism. And yet, on the other hand, this law makes a contribution to the state as a whole to achieve a higher level of acceptability for investors in the world through ranking in the doing business scale of the World Bank. So the World Bank and the doing business ladder are in the construction section by 4 indicators, there are one number of procedures, and there we are still exaggerated and this is the Ministry of Construction taking care to cut the number of procedures by the end of 2018 and bring them down to average. Another category takes time to issue the documents needed for construction, here we are good and above average. The third category that values the quality of construction or procedures that control and condition the quality and safety of construction, we are also above average and it is commendable. However, the fourth category is the costs the investor has before starting its own, realising its construction initiative. In that part we are below average and therefore as a state we suffer lower rankings because we have too much costs compared to at least the average given before the realization of our construction initiative. We have tried at least in these two isolated cases, which are high up at the level of doing business scales to move and step forward with this law so that we, in general, as a country, will be more competitive on the market or in the economy of Europe and the world. Powers of individual representatives,... the relocation of powers to representative bodies, instead of mayors, has been regulated by other regulations, including rules on local and regional self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the concession agreement, the concession law. So no one can give someone some authority other than they are already regulated in other regulations, here we just join what is already set out in other regulations. In short, it was the most prominent, encouraged in today's debate. In total, I thank all those who participated, and I hope that this Law will achieve the goals set before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89237	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of Klaric's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89238	Dear Mr. Uhlir, I have listened carefully to your reasoning on the matter of art. 84th century, 2nd century. This has nothing to do with what you've been saying and the reason why something like this is planned and planned in these two isolated cases. This is a purely political issue, but it doesn't make any sense with life. The original income units of local self-government are known to be. The European Charter of Local Self-Government knows what it is. The communal contribution and the communal compensation is what the local self-government unit needs and this law is what you envisaged to plan your funds for. If by law you order them to build on that regulation in St. 2, I now warn you if it remains so in the Law, that numerous units of local self-government will limit the possibility of investment, especially that part of the economy. And it has nothing to do with competition. If you're going to make it easier for investors, then change the procedure for HEP, water and everything else that's definitely holding down the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89239	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89240	Your Honor, this is about everyone in their backyard taking a little step forward, the whole state would work better. We will strive to talk to colleagues from the economy and HEP and to cut these procedures precisely to make the country more competitive on the world list. Why do some production plants go to the Czech Republic? Why are some production plants going to Hungary and not coming to us? So we all have to clean up a little bit in our backyards to improve the overall picture of our country. Well, we're doing it with this law in that one segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89241	Thank you. Replica No. Two, my colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89242	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I'm a little distracted by my colleague, Bauk, but I'll be back on the subject in no time. The point is that here, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to answer this question that was a little while ago, which is why this Law and the amendments to the article that we discussed earlier, I and my colleague Podolnjak have made it possible for Mayor Bandic to make his own decision on the allocation of the municipal activity of public lighting which he could not do in the assembly, given that I had already said, perhaps the struggle of interest groups. So you transferred something from the assembly domain to the mayor's hands where it wasn't even defined on any deadline that this contract should be concluded, so my direct question to you, was it, was it a condition for Bandic Mayor to support Andrej Plenkovic in the coming period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89243	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89244	Thank you very much for asking. I can go from behind. I don't know about any conditions anyone with anyone, so I really can't answer that. As for favoring the mayors, so it's no good, they're just authorized to sign the document. This document shall be opened by public tender or by law on concessions. It's no different. It's not their will to give someone something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89245	Thank you. Replica No. 3rd, comrade Podolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89246	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, when it comes to concessions, I'll quote you an article. 17 of the Law on concessions, which states that the period on which the concession is given is determined within the range of certain provisions of specific laws. And the special law, when it comes to municipal activities, is precisely this Law, and it must set a deadline. For example, the Sustainable Waste Management Act defines the time limit of concessions for the collection of mixed municipal waste for a maximum period of 10 years. Yeah, because that's bound by this concession law. You can't leave the law without a deadline because it would practically allow you to have a concession that the representative body will give for 50 years, 99 years. Tell me by what regulation for one of these activities the representative body could not grant a concession for 99 years when you did not set a deadline, and you would have to establish it, it requires you to have a concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89247	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89248	Thank you very much. Well, it doesn't say anywhere that it has to, so I'm leaving this issue out of the open just out of trust with the local administration that it takes care of the best interests of its citizens. So it doesn't say anywhere that a deadline has to be set. On the other hand, my explanation that I said just before in the closing statement, to prescribe all deadlines for all possible forms of concession would be an excessive procedure for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89249	Thank you. Replica No. Four, fellow Demetlika, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89250	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I will look back on what you may not have responded in your final presentation now, and that is to enable it. Disabling its own drive to work for more units of local self-government. While you're in the first bill of law, that was made possible. I think that's exactly what the IDS and PGS Club are going to give the amendment to, so I'm asking for an answer. And what you're saying is that delaying the payment of municipal contributions is an incentive measure for investment, I don't think we can agree on that. The incentive measure may be to speed up the process, lower municipal giving through the municipal contribution, faster resolution and connections of electricity, water, etc., while the delay cannot be an incentive measure. Whether I paid today or in six months, but I have to pay for it. So we can't exactly accept the explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89251	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89252	Thank you very much. Anything that delays the investor's cost of carrying out his investment before the investment starts bringing him income is being taxed and valued on the making bussiness scale to help the investor realize its investment. Every little shift has its value. It would be best to release completely but we're not ready to do it yet. The second question was? The own drive just came out of debate. [[Intruder: own drive.]] If you've put the amendment on, we'll discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89253	And last replica, here you go, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89254	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I have read the entire Constitutional Court decision, and I have found no basis for what you have explained. On the contrary, the Constitutional Court itself has even said that such an exemption is prescribed by a lex specialis such as the Law on the Communist Economy, it would be contrary to the rule of law and unconstitutional for the reasons that the Constitution of the units of local and regional self-government guaranteed the right to manage their own incomes independently and their right to local self-government as set out in Article 131. A constitution that says. Units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall have the right to own income free of charge in the performance of their own business. I'm saying this for good reason, I suggested a sustainable solution, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89255	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89256	I understand the proposal you made, it's really far-reaching, it's not that simple and it hasn't been introduced here for no reason. So an excessive burden for our armed forces. The Constitutional Court spoke of a person, of the Republic of Croatia and did not speak of individual properties, so the release of a person was generally spoken by the Constitutional Court in its decision, that is, in its finding. As for well-meaning, I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89257	Thank you. This is what we concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, the second reading, P.Z. No. 264 and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89258	We move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Communist Economy, second reading, P.Z. No. The 264th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. Now we move on to the amendment statement. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the motionary's representative, and this is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Honorable Željko Uhlir, to be shown about the amendments submitted. Amendment 1 of the Most Independent Lists Club on Article 22 has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 22 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3 of the Most Independent Lists Club to Article 22, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89259	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted because the maintenance of cemeteries and crematories according to the applicable Law on the municipal economy is a communal activity or there is no quality replacement solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89260	Dear Representative Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89261	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you are aware of the problems facing particularly fewer local self-governments on the maintenance of the very objects mentioned. One part relating to the service of the funeral is regulated through concessions, one part is in the jurisdiction of the family itself that pays for the transport of the deceased, however, when we get to the very state of the cemetery where it should be held, it is the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government, cannot be transferred to another, cannot have another form of availability and we believe that these units of local self-government should be considered to assist these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89262	You're asking for a vote, yes. Amendment number 4, the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, on Article 23, has been withdrawn. Amendment number 5, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, on Article 23, has been withdrawn. Amendment No 5, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on Article 23
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89263	The amendment shall not be accepted as neither has the amendment of the applicant adopted in Article 22 paragraph 1(6), i.e. maintenance of cemeteries and crematories, not deleted as a communal activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89264	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89265	This is a bound amendment to what we've been saying, so it's still the fact that you're going to reconsider until the vote itself, to try to help those who need to resolve this through the changes that would certainly contribute to this law. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89266	Amendment No 7 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24 has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 8 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89267	The amendment is not accepted because such a funeral activity does not exist but the funeral activity is governed by the Law on undertakement in the National Journal of the European Union published in 36/2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89268	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89269	Under the same clarification as this, the whole process of funerals that safely and financially and organisationally burdens both families and those who manage this requires a quality solution. Therefore, the demand in this law through another law that you have mentioned must surely be harmonised to simplify, to make it cheaper, and thus to ensure a long-term solution. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89270	Amendment number 9 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 10 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89271	The amendment is not accepted because the management of municipal waste cannot be a communal activity since, as a special type of activity, it is governed by the Sustainable Waste Management Act published in NN 94/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89272	Dear Representative Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89273	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, under the current Law on the Communist Economy, municipal waste management is defined unless we are in the sphere of certain possible liberalisation of waste management from the collection and transport itself, where these services would have collected significantly as far as our citizens are concerned. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89274	Amendment number 11 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89275	The amendment is not accepted because the chimney activity must remain a communal activity since it is not governed by any other law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89276	Okay, we're gonna have to vote on that, no club representatives. Article 12, forgive the amendment of the 12 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists on Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89277	The amendment is not accepted because it is a market-based activity that is not necessarily an insight into the lives and work of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89278	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89279	Just because this public area advertising activity is on the market, we have confusion, confusion, a certain jungle in big cities where you don't know who's drinking, who's paying. If they would define this as a communal activity, they would finally introduce order into postering, advertising public areas. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89280	Amendment number 13 of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89281	The amendment is not accepted because it is an activity governed by the Law on undertakement in such a way as to carry out it freely on the market and published in NN 36/2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89282	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89283	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we do not accept the explanation because many of our municipal companies in smaller areas have worked and funeral activities, and on the one hand it is an important source of income for them, and on the other hand it provides our citizens with a quality service and a cheaper service because I agree that the economy needs to be brought into line with the market economy and competitiveness in order for these prices to go down. But in these cases, when it comes to smaller environments, there is a legitimate fear that prices would grow services and that citizens would not have the same quality service and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89284	Amendment number 14 of the Independent Lists Bridges Clubs on Article 25 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 15 of the Independent Lists Bridge Clubs on Article 25 has been withdrawn. Amendment No 16 of the Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges on Article 25. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89285	The amendment is not accepted by the proposer's amendment to Article 24 paragraph 1 of point 3 which proposes the introduction of funeral activity as a municipal activity and is all governed by the 2015 Law on undertaker's activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89286	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89287	So now we've repeated a few times, since it's going through the law, the same subject, the same requirement, is primarily to consider, then after we try to agree with the vote. We're looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89288	Amendment number 17 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges on Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89289	The amendment is not accepted because Amendment 24, Article 24 paragraph 1(3), which proposes the introduction of municipal waste management as a municipal activity, and for reasons other than that governed by the 2013 Sustainable Waste Management Act, is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89290	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89291	With this amendment, we have only written down what would mean the concept of waste management, given that you have not accepted this amendment Article 24, but we have also proposed this amendment 25, and I ask for a vote on Article 25, we are also asking for this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89292	Amendment number 18 of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89293	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89294	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 19 Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges on Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89295	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the applicant in accordance with Article 24(1), which proposes to introduce advertising on public surfaces as a communal activity, is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89296	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89297	So as I pointed out in the previous debate, by introducing municipal activity, advertising on public surfaces would finally introduce one final order in postering on jumbo posters and other surfaces that are mostly owned by local self-government units where we now see that there is no specific regulation that could introduce order in this sphere. Since I'm looking for a vote on that amendment, I'm also asking for a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89298	Amendment number 20 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges on Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89299	The amendment is not accepted because, in the event of the adoption of such a proposed amendment, it would be possible to declare activities that are not communal in nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89300	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89301	Secretary of State, there are, of course, economic interests in certain areas being carried out. What we need to determine is that many areas, especially depreciated areas in Croatia, do not have an economic interest that some privateer, an entrepreneur, would find in his, as his or her goal. It will therefore happen to us that if we do not confirm the possibility that local self-government, in accordance with its needs, will determine an activity as a communal activity, that these areas will be left without performing certain activities. Unfortunately, we will face the problem of abolishing everything, disappearing, disappearing not only private initiatives, but also the state institutions and something that was an integral part of the life of those environments. Unfortunately, in this way we are left without the possibility that, perhaps even through communal activities, we will make up for the loss that neither your government nor your previous government has been able to create by their work. Thank you very much. We're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89302	This Regulation shall enter Advise Member's Club of the Independent Lists Bridge on Article 31, Amendment 21, to Article 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89303	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the applicant to Article 24(1), which proposes the introduction of the funeral activity as a municipal activity, has not been accepted, and has been governed by the 2015 Law on burial activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89304	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89305	In short, we are asking for a vote on the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89306	Amendment number 22. Adviser's Club of the Independent Lists Bridge on Article 35
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89307	The amendment is not accepted because there is no need since municipal activities are not carried out for profit purposes. Moreover, in such a case, the entrustment of public service to a commercial company by units of local self-government without a public tender would be contrary to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89308	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89309	I don't think I understood your clarification. The point is that what was required in this is that the company is not enough to stand just to clarify all shares, or shares, but to have a majority share, because if performing municipal activity is carried out through companies where a certain local self-government has a minority part, then we are just opening up the possibility of guessing. In this way where local self-government has a majority share, there is as much protection as there is, although nothing is ever certain. We ask you to reconsider this amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89310	Amendment No. 23 Club representative of the Bridge of Independent Lists on Article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89311	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is assessed as being less effective than the existing one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89312	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 37(2) of the proposed law, it states that the founding rights regarding the institution and on behalf of the units of local self-government were created by the mayor, i.e. the municipal chief in accordance with a specific law, or by one or more mayors, or municipal mayors, in accordance with specific laws and agreements on mutual rights and obligations. Our intensities were that this was not decided by the municipal chief, mayor or neighbouring mayors, the mayor, but by the representative bodies. It simply means Article 12. The Law on Institutions, your bill of law is not in line with the Law on Institutions at all, because the Law on Institutions of Article 12 says that the unit of local self-government is established by a decision of a representative body, meaning a certain institution, meaning it cannot be mayor, but the representative body can only be so responsible for the signing of certain contracts, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89314	Amendment 24 IDS, PGS and RIA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89315	The amendment is not accepted because its own drive is not an economic operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89316	Dear Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to say that this amendment, i.e. Article 39 in the first draft of the law that came to the first reading was included so we do not understand why you excluded it from the final draft law. We believe that it is not logical to simply restrict the units of local self-government in agreement and cooperation in performing certain tasks. Instead of being an incentive for cooperation, this law will force local self-government units to establish new societies or plants, which is at least irrational. With this amendment, we allow municipalities and cities to decide independently in cooperation and to carry out certain tasks, and therefore we ask that you be more flexible with this law and leave it to local self-government units. We have countless examples where local self-governments have joint facilities, specifically related to the operation of fire, municipal enterprises, but also their own drive is one of the forms where one municipality can provide a particular service to another and that would certainly be more rational. This is what Europe teaches us, an example through lies to join communities precisely through joint programmes and through some types of these facilities so that they can jointly carry out certain tasks, which is certainly more economical. But what bothers me is what reason you pulled out of that first bill, so I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89318	Amendment number 25 of the HSS Representatives Club to Article 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89319	The amendment is not accepted because it is not an economic operator, but two or more units of local self-government can jointly organise the operation of municipal activity through their own facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89320	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89321	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This Law on the municipal economy should certainly enable economic growth and development, but allow for a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. It is not the same to have a municipal plant in Županja, somewhere around Varazdin or around Rijeka where there are already fiscal possibilities and units of local self-government, and on the other hand, we aim to work through the co-operation of the local self-government unit to create conditions for attracting and investing and remaining people in that area. In the first reading, this was in the law, I don't know whose initiative it was kicked out on, so we proposed the amendment to return it to the two units of local self-government, by decision of its representative body, to agree on joint activities when it comes to communal affairs and thus facilitate business and reduce costs, and to provide citizens with a cheaper service. Please, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89322	Amendment No 26 of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction to Article 44
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89323	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89324	Amendment number 27 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89325	The amendment is not accepted because the concession is the most common and convenient way of organising chimney operations as a communal activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89326	Dear Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89327	Thank you, Chairman. I don't agree with your explanation at all. You're just prolonging the chaos that exists, I'd say on the chimney scene. Namely, as many units as there are local self-governments, which is 556, there are actually so many regulations, so everyone brings to himself that in the area of the local self-government unit, these jobs will be done. We strive to pass a single law, which cannot be passed. The mention of chimneying, we have here in the Law on the municipal economy in a few places in the Law on concessions, if I'm not mistaken, in one place. It happens to us in a scratch what? If one unit of local self-government, a community or a city were a region, and then it is, I would say to the chimney society, and everyone else is out of a job, and we often have a lot more work to do than the company that got the job can do. It's one of the anomalies that's happening in the system. The second is that we are actually risking the lives of citizens because the maintenance of chimneys is not at the level at which it should be and I ask that as soon as possible the law that would regulate that activity at the state level is passed. Instead of placing this job on the market by putting it into a concession, it is often suitable for individuals at local levels, we know that there is large corruption, often associated with the authorities, and then they get a job and others who are not bound by it. I therefore request a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89328	Amendment No 28 of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on Article 44
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89329	The amendment is not accepted because it is assessed that it is unnecessary to limit units of local self-government to the allocation of concessions to which the Law on concessions of 2017 is governed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89330	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89331	I don't agree with your explanation because here we can really have a form of convenience to be given to someone too long. Although we have asked here to consider the maximum period of 10 years, personally and as head of local self-government for a time, I think it can be too long. Now imagine what it means when you give a concession somewhere on a very long period of time, you actually destroyed the possibility that during that time, perhaps through changes in activity and through changes in competitiveness, through maybe strengthening some other entities, you can allow citizens to have a more favourable service than the one given by the concession agreement. The long deadlines provided for by the concession law are, unfortunately, not in the interest of citizens living in areas of local self-government, they want to achieve as soon and as best price as possible and of course, on the other hand, have as high a service as possible. Sometimes it happens that there is no offer on the market and then the conditions are very high, at which point the price of such service increases. At some point you can have a situation that competition has grown, that through the concession you can achieve much better conditions and in this way we will limit that possibility. We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89332	Article 29 of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89333	The amendment is not accepted because the regulation of the issue of determining the body of the units of local self-government is responsible for determining the person who makes the decisions on the selection of the person with whom the contract is to be concluded by the representative body of the unit of local self-government which regulates this issue by its statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89334	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89335	Thank you. The intensity of our amendment is that a decision on the conclusion of a contract on the confidence of municipal activity is taken by a representative body, not by the mayor. There is also no limit in the proposed law to the time at which a contract is concluded or now has a simple opportunity for a single mayor to sign a contract willingly and grant a public service to a company for a few years, 10 years after 4 years, there is a change and its successor cannot change the items within the contract at all. Therefore, in Article 49, our new item, meaning the entire amendment, we have installed that this contract can be concluded in time for a maximum of 4 years for the term of office of the elected representatives of the citizens, i.e. the representative body or the mayor himself. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89336	Thank you. We'll stop for organisational reasons now, and I'll see you in 16 and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89337	Amendment number 30 of the Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89338	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the existing solution is in the current applicable law according to which the agreement on the price of municipal services is given by the mayor, i.e. the municipal chief values faster and simpler.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89339	Does the Proposer want to give an explanation? Representative Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89340	State Secretary, speed means in Croatia usually and corruption in a way that if you remember well, you certainly know from your practice model where the tender appears who offers a really low price, gets the job, and then very soon in agreement with such leaders appears with a new price that is economically justified, comes and discusses this price and pressure to accept this higher price. So, personally in my community, that's exactly the kind of case it was supposed to be, it didn't happen. And there was that offered a lower price and then when the concessionaire showed up, he said yes, but we now have a reasonable price. Imagine when it was only a deal with the Chief in my case that would happen. So I'm livingly telling you what an example is, how it can happen. However, when it comes to the municipal council, political pressure is higher. You have a consumer protection commission anyway, because that's how you have to meet and the municipal council, so when you have to go through two filters, then it's not that simple to agree on something, but it has political consequences. In this way the mayor, the mayor arranged, the mayor, raised the price in agreement with the one who appears and you think it's fair, that it's a faster procedure, that it's something that's good. I personally believe that in this particular work, it is necessary to restrict the head of the unit of local self-government so that it does not come at all to the threat of such a situation happening to it, especially not to the citizens. We're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89341	Thank you. The 31st Amendment is also a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89342	The amendment is not accepted because the distribution telecommunications sewerage is by its nature not a municipal infrastructure since it does not extend to the area of only one unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89343	Does he want to make a proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89344	Thank you, Secretary of State. If it is not a municipal infrastructure, then I do not know why HACOM delivers the conditions to the local self-government unit and when building unclassified roads or certain other investments in its area, the condition that the distribution, telecommunications sewerage is defined within the project and within the building permit. You have very well defined the Articles 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of the legal status of municipal infrastructure and enabled the local self-government unit that owns this municipal infrastructure to register ownership of it if so far it has not been entered and our intensity has been precisely that the final distribution sewerage of the DTK network as we shorten, defines as a municipal infrastructure finally, that it is not a single vacuum space, that we can finally enter ownership of it as a unit of local self-government and ultimately that we can collect a fee from the operator. Croatia escapes millions, millions, I would say, and billions of kunas that teleoperators should pay to local self-government units that previously built the DTK network, but cannot register property, nor prove normally that they are using teleopers by not paying absolutely to the state of Croatia, nor to the local self-government units of any kuna. And finally to solve this enigma that our intensity in this amendment was to put it in the form of a municipal infrastructure because literally when you ask what the DTK network is, I don't know which ministry should be asked more, here I am in this short period of 6, 7 months in a pair of ministries asking whose jurisdiction it is, everyone's being transferred to someone's, and in fact it's nothing, it's certainly used by our operators by not paying anyone at all. I don't know if a German operator can do that in Germany, I don't think he can. In Croatia, it can do so for 20 and a few years. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89345	Thank you. Amendment 32 Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89346	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed definition does not differ significantly from the definition of the text of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89347	No club representatives. Amendment No 33 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89348	The amendment is not accepted because it is mainly infrastructure structures that do not use municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89349	Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? Here you go. This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89350	Well, here's a respected secretary of state, it is proposed to point out that the final draft law is actually in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2003, which rejected the Government of the Republic of Croatia's request for an assessment of compliance with the Constitution. It is therefore autonomously the right of the unit of local self-government to establish the conditions for the release from duty to comply with some obligation if it is the means which constitute the original revenue of the units of local self-government. So I believe that here, in part, the autonomy of local self-government is being affected and I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89351	34 Amanadman Club of Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89352	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is considered unnecessarily restrictive for the local self-government unit, and in particular because more freedom of choice is allowed in Article 78.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89353	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89354	Secretary of State, I don't know now because we're talking about the same thing because it says the restriction is on someone, we're actually giving here the possibility that local self-government can make a decision about full or partial liberation from communal contributions. I don't know what the restriction is, it's actually transferring only one part of responsibility to local self-government, responsibility in creating their policy of urban development or the community, responsibility to that. Maybe if he recognizes a particular project that could be compromised at exactly the height of the communal contribution, to determine by their decision, by the decision of the people who represent that they can be lower. We're looking for this vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89355	The 35th Amendment, Advocacy Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89356	The amendment is not accepted, as the solution contained in the final draft law is valued by a significant incentive to build storage and production buildings, as well as the achievement of a better investment climate in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89357	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89358	Dear Secretary of State, this is the most we have actually talked about on the relevant parliamentary committee, and I really don't see it, or, I don't know, it's clear to me that on a list of competitiveness Croatia is increasing again across the back of the units of local self-government. Why don't we cut the VAT, why don't we disburse the entrepreneurs to some other reliefs, some other things, but now, you've defined, that the municipal contribution to the warehouse and the buildings of the intended production, is brought after the power to use the permit. Now, I would ask you a question, from which units of local self-government in the rural area, which is not fiscally strong, will build a municipal infrastructure, which is why the investor will just get a useful permit. So with these articles, with these two paragraphs of this article, you're going to block further rural development, you're going to block the further development of all units of local self-government, which don't have... in order to be able to build that infrastructure from its other items of tax revenue, to the production storage halls, for which the investor will be granted an administrative authorisation. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And the question still arises, what if the municipality is in charge? Let a small municipality or small town be in charge of that infrastructure and the investor begins to build. But there's an investor disorder and it doesn't build that hall. And from which he will return that money later. That's why this is a good intensity for you, but let's do it in our decisions in the communal contribution and cities that are strong fiscally, not to force these people to stick to us when we make our own decisions on the communal contribution. Because you didn't say yes, but the sea, that's why I'm asking for a vote. And I really can't understand this at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89359	36th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89360	The amendment is not accepted because the issue in question has already been resolved by the Construction Act, the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings several years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89361	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89362	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I wouldn't agree with you. Therefore, according to the current provisions of this law, which is before us, a solution on the municipal contribution, is made on official duty or at the request of the party, for buildings that are built without a building permit, the solution is made after either the start of the construction or after the start of the construction. If the bonds do not report the beginning of the construction or not of the application of the obligation to pay the municipal contribution, the bonds shall not bear sanctions, but shall pay the municipal contribution in the event that the competent authority manages to establish the existence within the legal time limit for the determination of the obligation... So, through this amendment, we propose that bonds be made to declare the creation of an obligation and to define the infringement provisions for non-compliance with the obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that such a solution will reduce the number of appeal cases, with regard to the disagreement between the obligors and the competent authorities regarding the area of the facility, which is subject to the obligation to pay the municipal fee. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89363	Thank you. 37th Amendment, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89364	The amendment is not accepted because the charging of municipal compensation in an area where no public service is provided is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89365	Proposer's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89366	Thank you. Well, here, so it's proposed to be behind the word... In fact, it erases the sign of the cut and the words about the low voltage power grid and water according to local opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, illegally built buildings are often located outside construction areas and have no legal connection to the power grid, nor to the water supply, and according to the provisions of this article, such facilities have been excluded from the payment of municipal compensation, regardless of whether or not they have passed the legalisation process. It is therefore proposed that these conditions be deleted from these articles or that the law of ex-plite prescribes the obligation to pay a municipal fee for illegal and legal objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89367	Thank you. You're looking for a vote, I guess. 38th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89368	The amendment is not accepted, because the building intended for defence cannot be considered as business buildings, so any doubt about it needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89369	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89370	So, you've excluded the garages here, you've excluded the business premises and the building land within the military building, or the location of the paid utility. Therefore, by prescribing a reduction of the obligation or a exemption from paying a municipal fee by you as legislation, the Constitutional Court has declared the Constitutional Court incompatible with the Constitution, even if you do so as a legislator contrary to the Law on the Communist Economy. So you have a decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 July 2017, so I ask you to act on it and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89371	39th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89372	The amendment is not accepted because the municipal fee is paid for the use of municipal infrastructure, otherwise it would represent another form, i.e. tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89373	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89374	However, in accordance with the judgment of the High Administrative Court, therefore, the owner of the facility is obliged to pay the municipal fee, whether or not it is used by that facility or not in an essential obligation, if there is a possibility of using the space owned by the debtor, whether it is equipped or translated for a purpose. So as currently proposed in this final bill, the owners of objects built for the market, so facilities for permanent or occasional lease or lease housing means the account is after... Such facilities, therefore, since we have a significant number of units located in an undeclared lease, are in question the possibility of local units having any knowledge of the conclusion of a contract to which the right to use the property referred to in this point 2 of the said paragraph is acquired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we propose introducing an additional criterion for determining the occurrence of the obligation to pay the municipal fee as proposed by the amendment on which we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89375	40 has been withdrawn, the 41st Amendment of the SPD Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89376	The amendment is not accepted because this would increase the existing fiscal burden on citizens, which is not the desired effect of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89377	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89378	So we think that the current value of the coefficient for the building land was set significantly on that small amount and in fact there is an economic justification in choosing the municipal fee. So since we have a plot of some 500 square meters in the first zone in some coastal cities ranging from 140 to 150 kuna, and the duty on other zones is less important and does not cover labour costs, materials, removal, solutions, etc., and does not cover in particular the costs of appeal procedures and forced collection. So in view of all of this, given the unsettled immuno-legal relations, local self-government units have been demoted to record such land at all, and owners, or users, are not motivated to regulate immune legal relations or put it in the service of economic activities so that this argument of yours about the burden on citizens certainly does not stand. The goal is to bring in land for some purpose, primarily economic and that should be the most important burden on citizens, I think it should be there, but it's a side issue here. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89379	Amendment 42 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89380	The amendment is not accepted because the instruments in question are priced as necessary in order to protect excessive or disproportionate charges for municipal compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89381	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89382	In fact, paragraphs 2 and 3 provide for a reduction in the payment of the municipal fee for business entities operating less than 6 months, i.e. for tourist properties, given that such entities are subject to a reduction in the obligation of other entities from the same industry or other industry, such reduction is actually considered as State support. So we can consider it in terms of smaller properties it can be considered deminimous support, but in terms of significant real estate, this reduction of support can easily cross that threshold of deminimism support. So I will repeat once again that I find the regulation to reduce the obligation or exemption from paying the municipal fee to the Law on the Communist Economy in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89383	Amendment 43 of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89384	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89385	It becomes an integral part of the law. 44th Amendment of Representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89386	The amendment is not accepted because it is not possible to do so since there are no words mentioned in the provision of Article 105(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89387	The representative is not present. 45th Amendment Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89388	The amendment shall not be accepted because it is not possible to do so since the provision of Article 113(1) does not have a point 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89389	They're not present. 46th Amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89390	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89391	It becomes an integral part of the law. 47th Amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89392	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89393	It also becomes an integral part of the law. The 48th Amendment also comes from the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89394	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89395	It becomes an integral part of the law. 49th Amendment Advocacy Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89396	The amendment shall not be accepted because the amendment of the applicant to Article 55(1) has not been accepted in accordance with this paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89397	Representative for the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the fact that, as you said before and the amendments themselves, the representative body is, however, a body that should give price consent, so the intensity of this was the amendment in the last Article 122 on the infringement provisions to be leveled with the previous proposals. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89399	50th Amendment Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89400	The amendment is not accepted because it would make it impossible to register the ownership of local self-government units on the municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89401	No proposings are present. That's what we'll vote on when we get the conditions for these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89402	Final proposal of the Law on the municipal economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 264. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the Club of Representatives of the HSS propose to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: On the final proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, a third reading will be carried out. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Honorable Zeljko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89403	Thank you very much. The proposed conclusion shall not be accepted by the honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89404	The government does not accept this proposal, so I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists and the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Please, let's vote. I find that the law has not received the required number of votes, i.e. I apologize, the proposed conclusion has not received the required number of votes. We're going to vote on the amendments. I would like to remind you that we held a statement on the amendments at the session held on 11 July 2018. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Advocacy Club for Croatia, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the PGS and RIA and the representative of Damir Mateljan. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, so let's vote now. Amendment number one has been withdrawn. Amendment number two has been withdrawn. Amendment number 3 The government does not accept, please let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four has been withdrawn. Amendment number five has been withdrawn. Amendment number six, please vote, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 7 now and he's been withdrawn. Amendment number 8 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 9 has been withdrawn. Amendment 10. Let's vote. The government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 12 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 15 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 16 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 19 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 24 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26 of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 27 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 31 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 32 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 33 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 34 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 35 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 36 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 37 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 39 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 40 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 41 is not accepted by the government. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 42 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 43 of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 44 not accepted. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 45 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 46 of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction has been accepted. Amendment 47 of the same committee has been accepted. And Amendment 48 of the same committee has been accepted. Amendment 49 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 50, it's the last amendment, and the government doesn't accept it. Neither has this amendment received the required number of votes. So then we move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on the Communist Economy, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 12 abstentions and 24 against the adoption of the Law on the Communist Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89405	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 364; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. We have Mr. Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89406	Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal of the Law on the supply and supply of arms to citizens is a law which will regulate the procurement and registration of arms and the extension of the period of validity of the arms and ammunition documents, as well as the way in which the citizens are dealt with for civil use, or for the purposes of hunting, shooting or for personal security or self-defense. This draft law also transposes the EU Directive No. 853 of 2017 on the control of the supply and possession of weapons. In fact, this Directive complemented the '91 directive. which was still changed in 2008 and with which our current law was in conformity. The Republic of Croatia currently registered 270 thousand 932 pieces of weapons used for civilian purposes. Of which 184 thousand 219 weapons were registered for hunting purposes, so most for hunting purposes, 5 thousand 143 pieces of weapons for sports shooting and 81 thousand 570 pieces of weapons were registered for personal safety purposes. The age limit for the supply of weapons remains the same, or 21 years, with exceptions for certain categories. These are police officers, judicial officers, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, other state bodies, security guards who are authorised under special regulations to hold and carry arms, members of sports shooting associations actively competing in the shooting and persons with a hunting test capable of obtaining weapons from 18 years of age. In Articles 10 to 20, the law regulates the precise approval procedure for the supply of weapons to a natural person, which distinguishes general conditions and special conditions. General conditions are that a person has a valid reason for the purchase of weapons, therefore, or has passed a hunting test to actively compete in the shooting or has a particular reason for the supply of weapons for personal safety. A person must be 21 years old, as I said, committed, except for the exceptions listed in the law, that no criminal or criminal proceedings have been brought against him, or that he is legally convicted of certain, precisely numbered crimes, the most serious crimes and violations with the elements of violence and that he has secured conditions for safe accommodation and weapons storage. Where such conditions are met by a person, then specific conditions concerning the health status of the applicant are required, so that the citizen has technical knowledge and skills for the proper use of the weapon and that he knows the rules relating to the possession of the weapon. When all these conditions have been met, the citizen shall be granted authorisation for the purchase of a weapon with which he has a period of 6 months to obtain a specific weapon and then request the release of the arms list with that weapon. With this bill, weapons are classified into four categories. Category A where the weapon that can be registered and thus be legally owned in category B is a weapon in the prior procurement authorisation regime that I was talking about, in category C, the firearms and other weapons that need to be reported to the competent authority, therefore the PU or the D-cell and category D in which the arms and devices do not need to be reported to the competent authority after the purchase. This categorisation is based on the directive and it is only in some cases more stringent than the directive. In several cases, we went harder than the directive, for example, some category of firearms could be placed in category C, which should be subsequently reported, but we decided that the concept of all firearms should be in category B with prior procurement approval. Otherwise, the bill simplifies the procedure to be carried out for the purpose of requesting citizens to obtain firearms and will no longer carry out operational verifications carried out by police officers on the ground or in talks with neighbours and other persons known to the applicant and thus attempt to establish the existence of circumstances that indicate possible weapons abuse. In fact, we believe that experience has shown us that such tests often did not bring any added value, and they have significantly exhausted the work of police officers on the ground and took away the time they could use to carry out some other tasks, according to our assessment of more important tasks. I mentioned as a special condition for the supply of arms is the possession of a citizen's health ability and therefore the citizen is obliged to give information about his chosen primary health care doctor, and the PU or the station will inform the selected doctor about all persons who have been issued the gun list. Based on this information, the selected primary healthcare physician will inform the PU or become aware of a change in the health status of the gun owner that affects its ability to own weapons of course. The citizen, as proposed by this Law, will not have to go to medical examinations as it has been every 5 years, but health assurance will therefore contribute to the purchase of weapons and afterwards from 70 years of age. So within 15 days of 70 years of his life, he will have to deliver a conviction that he is still healthy and capable of having weapons. After that, every five years they will have to adapt that belief of health skills. The proposal of the Law is extremely permitted to use children over 9 years of age with weapons of category B, as well as air weapons and weapons with tendons, and until now they were only 11 years older, so that they competed in sports competitions only in the places designated for these competitions and arranged for training and under the supervision of coaches. The age limit has been reduced because on a proposal from the Croatian Shooting Union, it has been established that our younger age categories of sports shooters achieve worse results than competitors from other countries in which they are allowed to engage in this sport at an earlier age. We therefore coordinate this with most other countries. In addition, the proposal for a law requires that exceptional weapons of category B should be used by minors aged 17 and 6 months in training for a hunter also under the supervision of persons authorised to perform a programme for training hunters and with the consent of parents or guardians. The directive I spoke about explicitly allows the use of firearms for sports and hunting and persons under 18 years of age if they have the consent of parents or are controlled by an adult with a valid permit to carry firearms or are located within a licensed or otherwise authorised training centre. In doing so, we have compared the situation in other EU countries and most of these countries have, therefore, allowed younger people to train for a hunter, under the supervision of an authorised person and with the consent of their parents. Only that weapons are rarely used in the proper use of injuries, but supervision of the installation of weapons against persons using it is extremely important and although certain procedures have been simplified, it remains an emphasis on the safe use of firearms. Still in art. In 79, the possibility of returning weapons that are illegally owned by citizens is prescribed and for the past 10 years, the action of the MUP "less weapons, less tragedy" in which citizens are called for the voluntary surrender of illegal weapons, so that in the last 10 years, citizens have handed over over 4.5 thousand pieces of automatic firearms, over 316 thousand of which are spraying weapons, i.e. bombs, grenades or the like. 4.8 million rounds of ammunition and another four and a half tons of different explosives. Also during that period, 7762 were handed over to allow firearms that were not protested in a valid, correct manner. So they didn't have permission to hold or carry that weapon. Equally every year, a number of weapons are withdrawn during administrative proceedings, criminal or criminal proceedings. For example, in the last year, a total of 5292 with firearms of which 2215 were seized in administrative proceedings, 2850 who were in criminal and 119 who were in criminal proceedings. Here, these are the basic points of the law that lies before you in the first reading, all your remarks, suggestions and suggestions will be carefully considered and, if necessary, included in the text of the final bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89407	Thank you to the Secretary of State, Mr. Zark Katić. We've got five replicas on his display. He's my first colleague, Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89408	Your Honor, Secretary of State. In this bill, I see that we are implementing the EU directive and you mentioned in your presentation 81,000 to those weapons used by our citizens for personal security. And it reduces this number, exactly the medical examinations, whether I'm interested, we don't know the statistics, how many years it is, the citizens of gun owners, but this, after 70 years, that it's been examined and that it's subject to a medical examination, only after every five years, I think we should think about it a little bit, but still, after 70 years, not to offend our citizens, the psychophysical situation is a little faster. So I think these health checks should be a little more common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89409	Thank you, would you like to answer? Okay, commentary, replica number two, colleague Klaric Tomislav. A fellow Klaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89410	Dear Secretary of State, now, I'm interested, which is the difference, between a 9-year-old and let's call it that, a young man of 16 or 17.5 years to make his own proposal original, from 16 to 17.5. That's one thing. Secondly, you mentioned a European directive and European countries. If European countries, Germany, Austria, are all 14 years apart, what are our young people worse than them? What's the matter with our young? Why are we going so restrictively towards something organized in the Republic of Croatia? The Croatian Hunting Federation has been in place for 100 years, and it has definitely proved itself through all these 100 years, both procedures and compliance with legal regulations and all that is in force. We are doing something that is restrictive, to the expense and societies of these young people, while putting them in an unequal position compared to others, in other EU countries, and we are calling for a European directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89411	Thank you. You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89412	Thank you very much. It is true, and I did so in the opening debate, that some EU countries allow weapons to be used for hunting, use and persons under 18 years of age, but with the consent of parents or guardians and under the supervision of a person with authority. So, specifically, when it comes to hunting, the hunter. It is also true that in our proposal, which was put up for public debate, you have probably seen this limit for 16 years, but in later discussions, on the proposal of other state authorities, it was raised to 17,5 years and it is considered sufficient time to carry out training and pass an exam for a hunter and that a person at 18 may start using hunting weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89413	Thank you. Replica No. 3 colleagues Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89414	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, I would like to commend the bill, which you have improved in some segments, on behalf of all hunters, including my families. So, compared to the operational checks of police officers, you have also simplified these procedures, where it is possible to sign under material and criminal responsibility that the weapons are properly stored. Moreover, it is very important to mention that these reviews, i.e., the association of now police officers and the MUP with authorised doctors, who are in charge and are monitoring our health, i.e., the health of all persons, therefore, do not need more often as it has been, indeed, do these reviews so often, and in any case I support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89415	Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89416	Thank you very much. So we tried to simplify the procedure without it going to the heart of security. I'm here to point out that according to our Crimea police records, only 2% of the crime cases, are committed with weapons, owned by citizens legally, and everything else is with illegal weapons. The citizen, of course, is believed to a certain extent, but according to the article. 13. except for making a written statement, if suspected, a police officer may come, check, see if the weapons are stored in a safe way. Also, when it comes to doctors, they have a obligation to give, all changes, health conditions, which affect the holding and carrying of weapons, and we believe that it will work well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89417	Replica No. Four fellow Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89418	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, for a short time, for public purposes, something that I have already mentioned is related to the special conditions of gun procurement to a natural person, the number 2 condition says that it has the technical knowledge and skills of the legal use of weapons and that it knows the rules of possession, and number 1 that it is qualified on a medical examination or that it has been branded capable of obtaining. He continues to say that with special conditions for availability he has three one is hunting, the second is sport and the third is a certificate of capacity for possession and legal use issued by the MUP. In order to obtain this certificate, medical examinations must be carried out. You can't have that confirmation if you haven't passed a medical examination. Well, then I just want to ask here if then, when you approve of weapons supply, you need a new medical examination or if you have enough of the certificate you had to attach to obtain from the MUP confirmation that you've been trained technically and that you can get the weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89419	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89420	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So that medical examination is enough, it won't need a new medical examination, and when you talk about training, there is a rule on the program and how to conduct training for the proper use of firearms, which provides for a theoretical and practical course of 14 hours and then passing exams.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89421	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure to fellow Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89422	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. So whenever a gun is debated, it causes a great public interest, there are always few fans' passions present one part of the public is always to limit it, the other to liberalize it a little. However, do you have any data on how many criminal offences are committed by weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89423	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89424	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I just pointed out that according to our criminal police administration, only 2% of those data, 2% of the crimes were committed with registered legal weapons owned by citizens, and other crimes where firearms were used and were committed with unregistered and illegal weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89425	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague, Marija Jelkovac, president of the Committee on Legislatives and fellow Members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. If not, I'm opening up a debate. For the first debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a colleague of Sladolev applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is the Law on the acquisition and registration of weapons that introduces in us an unnecessary new category of weapons, category D, which even the very strict EU Directive of 2017 does not know. There is no rational explanation for such service. This will create a problem for many EU citizens who come to Croatia recreationally because almost all EU countries do not have this category D, so, for example, at the borders, they will have surprising problems due to the transfer of practically R soft and paintball toys. It will be the subject of ridicule and embezzlement of tourists and of presenting unnecessary complexity and administration of persons who use R software and imitations for entertainment and play in nature and who in no way have the possibility with such R software reproductions to endanger life. The law generally misdefined the collection of weapons and went beyond the eu directive. It is surprising that the Ministry of Culture has missed the fact that national historical and cultural treasures will be destroyed in ancient iron by many natural persons who have spent enormous resources and efforts to collect and record. We suggest that a few things change in the law. In Article 6(6), the term placed in the context of school ammunition should be deleted because it has been deactivated with a more general importance. In fact, the school ammunition is not deactivated by ammunition but by purposely designed ammunition for showing purposes, special structures other than deactivated and normally filled with plastic or other mass. In practice, it will cause confusion because a large amount of deactivated ammunition is owned by natural and legal persons and serve as decorations, locks for keys, pens, etc. Article 6 paragraph 20 where a sentence is defined and which cannot be converted to fire a shotgun, grains or missiles by means of an incendiary thrust because it is a provision which, in the nature of all the signal guns that the seamen legally have to put at the edge of the law. In fact, every pipe is in theory, and it is possible to remanufactuate the water line to fire the shotgun, and this regulation is an over-normation, and it will create a problem especially in maritime-oriented areas where chaos and interpretation problems will arise. Article 6(6), where the concept of firearms is defined, the word behind the word can be inserted, added by a simple technical process, given that in the theory of each piece of weapon, each air rifle, each pipe with a handle is converted into a weapon. However, such modifications require complex technical procedures which are not available to persons without specific technical and weapons skills and do not have special machines for this purpose. It is therefore necessary to access clearer and more limited definition of firearms. In Article 7 of point 12, it is proposed to delete the text of silencers intended for firearms and parts for silencers, since developed Western countries have realised that the silence of shooting is particularly desirable in hunting for the health of hunters, shooters and for environmental reasons as it reduces noise in the environment. Several Scandinavian northern countries have introduced silencers as a preferred practice in hunting Germany, Finland, Denmark, Great Britain, for them are issued purchasing licences as well as for weapons. These countries have properly introduced the registration of silencers, shootings and long-term practices have proved to be very positive, so that part of the text should be discarded and allowed to purchase a silencer. The ELF Directive in Article 6(2) provides that the educational, cultural, research and historical purposes and without prejudice to Article 6(1) of that Directive, the competent national authorities may, in an exceptional and duly justified manner, issue authorisations for firearms, essential parts and ammunition in category A where this is not contrary to public security or public order. This means that the EU has allowed in nature that collectors who are supporters and conservationists of cultural and historical heritage can possess incapacitated weapons of A category and its parts. But this bill does not define it in a quality way, denying citizens that possibility and forcing them to destroy such heritage as forcing culture. If that were the case, Article 6(3) of the Directive states that Member States may issue to collectors authorisations for the supply and possession of essential parts and ammunition classified in category A subject to strict safety conditions. The only reason why this law does not approach collectors with attention is because of the laziness of a state apparatus that would rather be allowed to destroy national treasures than have to have one more thing on the record. It is surprising that the Ministry of Culture had no objection to this part of the text that represents the path of destroying the sows of Croatian and European military history. In Article 7, paragraph 3 is proposed to add point 17, which is the silencer intended for the weapon. This is because the 2017 Directive does not treat silencers as part of weapons and is not mentioned in the same question, based on what data, studies, research has concluded that the silencers are a category of weapons together with automatic weapons, rocket launchers, etc. Such claims speak of a high level of ignorance and misunderstanding of the function and purpose of the silencer. Trends worldwide and in the EU are encouraging the use of silencers in sports shooters, hunters and other users of firearms because the positive impact of silencers in protecting health, people and the environment is recognised. The silencers are devices that are mounted at the end of the gun pipe and help reduce noise levels due to gunshots to values that are safe for people's health. The silencers are essentially nothing more than a simple pipe with a series of bulkheads that help both retain and reroute the gunpowder gases that come out of the pipe after failure. According to their performance and purpose, they are very similar to the exhaust system in the car and are simultaneously invented and developed in the early 1900s by the same man. Using a silencer to use weapons can make it safer, more pleasant and acceptable for other people in the environment, e.g. Inhabitants near the shooting range, hunting grounds. Hearing damage caused by exposure to excessive noise is a serious problem in today’s world. Many of the people who have suffered hearing damage have been exposed to gunshots from firearms. This applies mainly to sportsmen, hunters, cops, soldiers, security guards and all those who use firearms as well as those who are close to using them. The silencer can help prevent hearing damage as recognised in some EU countries and beyond where the intervention of silencers is made possible by citizens and even encouraged by the state. The silencer is especially useful for hunters when it is not practical to have ear protection when hunting. In hunting, hunters do not wear antiphones because they listen to the environment and dogs and communicate with each other. Again, not a muffled shot is loud enough to cause permanent hearing damage. The use of silencers will significantly reduce the level of noise resulting from gunshots to protect hearing without using the antiphone. It will also reduce the level of stress in dogs that are also exposed to discomfort. The use of silencers will reduce any discomfort of citizens if the hunting takes place near the settlements and possibly avoid unpleasant situations. For hunters, it is also important that the use of the silencer reduces the trigger of the weapon, removes the blast waves of the blast, reduces the bounce of the weapon, after which it is faster and easier to aim after the first shooting, i.e. The target's coming back on target faster. The use of silencers on the range range except for hearing, user and other people staying on and around the range is useful because of a decrease in noise levels that often bother the surrounding tenants and cause discomfort. It is known that there are shooting sites located near settlements or cities, and there are always comments by residents on noise caused by firearms shootings. Using silencers helps to ease complaints against the noise of the surrounding tenants and make co-existence easier. Suffocators do not increase crime, some people believe that by allowing the possession of silencers for civilians to increase crime. That's completely wrong. According to a study done in the United States, which is the first in the world by number of weapons per capita and where the possession of silencers has been allowed in 42 countries of 50, it has been concluded that silencers have rarely been used in criminal acts. The studies looked at the period from 1995 to 2005 in California and other countries and found that the silencer was used in less than 0.1 criminal activities. The silencer is obviously not a source of crime because he does not actually muffle the shot as in the movies, he cannot use the guns, he prevents the normal operation of the vast majority of semi-automatic pistols unless a special device is added to enable him to build a plunger, makes the weapon longer and harder to manipulate and hide. Some of the countries where the possession of silencers for civilian use are allowed are Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Sweden, Great Britain, Ukraine, USA, New Zealand, etc. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8. For the sake of clarity of defining that cold weapons in the form of bayonets and daggers in the collector do not pose a danger, it is useful to put behind the words of category A cold weapons whose primary purpose is to attack or inflict injuries, add text, and the ways and circumstances of their wear indicate that they are worn to be used for assault or injury. It is proposed to delete the Article. To the wheel. 4. words, with the exception of devices designed for R soft and paintball, which should be reported in case of crossing the state border because it is an inappropriate prenormisation that will cause problems for tourists and foreigners, as this substance is very rarely defined in other EU countries in view of their entry into another country. Here, these are our remarks, so here's hoping you'll respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89427	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Angelko Stricak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89428	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Bill on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, sensationalist signs about him appeared in the media. For example, will Croatia become a small wild west, so Armed and dangerous, so Apsurdi about obtaining a permit for arms and so on. But is that right? First of all, I would point out that I believe that the legal provisions are well balanced, i.e. They're not too strict for gun owners on the one hand, and on the other hand they've taken care of the safety of all citizens. This bill is good and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support it. However, in the opening part itself, i.e. in the explanation of the applicant, i.e. The MUP could show a broader picture of weapons possessions both in the Republic of Croatia and in the environment and in the world. There would most likely be no more of the media headlines mentioned then, and the public would be far more familiar with the intensities of the legal provisions. Looking for data on weapons possessions, I came up with a weapons possession ranking on 100 residents who created the Geneva Institute for International and Development Studies. The list states that the most weapons per capita are owned by the United States and that 88.8. Serbia is second with 58.2. Third Yemen with 54.8, fourth place Switzerland with 45.7, fifth Cyprus with 36.4, sixth Saudi Arabia with 35, seventh Iraq with 34.2, eighth Finland with 32, ninth place Uruguay with 31.8 pieces of weapons on 100 inhabitants and 10. Sweden with 31.6. According to the rank-list, the Republic of Croatia is in 26 places with 21.7 pieces of weapons on 100 inhabitants. In view of the fact that at the end of last year, 259615 pieces of weapons owned by 103903 natural persons were registered in the Republic of Croatia, I assume they also took estimates of the number of illegal weapons. It is evident from that ranking that among the most armed countries are also the ones most developed, and on the ground of Europe it is certainly Switzerland, Sweden, Finland but therefore not called the wild west or for absurdity. This Proposal for a Law regulates the procedures for the procurement of weapons registration and the extension of the period of validity of the arms documents, as well as the way in which weapons and ammunition are handled by citizens for civil use. The matter contained in the applicable Arms Act relating to the production and transport of weapons, the intermediation of arms, the repair and processing of weapons, the transport of weapons, the testing and marking of the brand of firearms and civilian ammunition was regulated by the Law on Explosive Substances, and the production and transport of weapons with which the provisions of the Arms Act governing that substance ceased to apply. According to the Bill's proposal, the age limit for the purchase of arms is 21 years, with the exception of the police officers of the MUP, members of the OSR, the judicial police, other state authorities and security guards who are authorised to hold and carry arms under special regulations, members of the Sports Shooting Association who are actively competing in shooting and persons with a hunting test capable of obtaining weapons from 18 years of age. Weapons can be obtained for hunting, sports shooting or personal security or self-defense. The proposal for a law simplifies and speeds up the procedure to be applied for by citizens for the authorisation of the supply of firearms. Also, police officers will not in the living rooms of a person who purchases a weapon check that the person has secured the conditions for safe installation and weapons storage, but the person will make a statement of this under material and criminal responsibility when applying for the supply of the weapons and, if subsequently, appropriate actions will be carried out against it and the weapons will be taken away. This way, speaking of weapons accommodation and storage, I again remind you of the disappearance of a weapon from a police warehouse in Varazdin. On January 2, 2015, police patrols in the regular traffic control of one vehicle found 20 guns, 16 automatic guns with silencers, 9 automatic rifles, 30 hand grenades, 2.8 kg of explosives, etc. During the press conference, the then chief of the PU said, quote, part of the weapon is older and part of the newer date. For example, there are silencers, bombs, explosives, laser targets, from which it is clear that the weapon was not intended, for example, for poaching. He's telling us that it may have gone for terrorist purposes or was intended for organized crime. The end of the quote. At that time, immediately after checking, a serial number of weapons found that part of the weapon originated from a police warehouse in Varazdin, the investigation was ongoing and has not produced any results to date. The reason is, most likely, that the same structural unit is investigating itself. A charge has been brought against the driver and passenger of that vehicle for the purpose of committing a criminal offence, illegal possession, manufacture and supply of weapons. Then on February 25, 2015, at a session of the County Assembly of the Varazdin County, a question was asked, does it encourage part of the weapons from the police warehouse? On 24 March 2015, at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Varazdin, an investigation is being launched, for perhaps an important start of the criminal part of the issuing of the official secret, not for the sake of the forward, and all due to the forward issue of the council. On 20 May 2015, at a session of the Varazdin County District Assembly, the question arises whether the entire case of weapons disappearance is being covered up. And only on 17 July 2015 is criminal charges filed by the perpetrator for suspicion of committing a criminal offence, heavy theft, for stealing several pieces of firearms and for storage of the PU of Varazdinska. So the question arises, which is why the State's Attorney's Office may significantly cover up this case, because obviously, it deals with everything, just not where this weapon ended. I appeal to do everything, but everything, to find it. This bill provides for categorisation, firearms, which is in line with the categorisation set out in Directive 7017/853. In category A, firearms were classified, such as explosive military missiles, launchers, all types of weapons with silencer, etc. which is prohibited for civilian use. In category B, firearms requiring authorisation for supply and category C in which firearms, other weapons, which are to be declared after purchase by the competent police administration or the Home Affairs Ministry station, with stricter conditions for the categorisation of firearms, i.e. certain types of firearms, which are classified in the C category by the proposal of this law, are classified in the B category. The bill also prescribed a D category of weapons and devices that do not need to be reported to the competent police office or station after the procurement, but some of them just need to report to the border police, in case of a transfer across the state border. Furthermore, in the purchase of weapons, the citizen will have to attach his confidence in the medical ability to possess weapons, but after that, he won't have to go for a health check every 5 years as before. The next medical examination will have to be carried out when he turns 70, namely, on the issue of authorisation for the supply of weapons, will be notified of his forced health care, which will have to inform the police station of any change in the health status or course of treatment of the gun owner, which affects the medical ability to possess weapons. However, the police administration or the station will, every 5 years on official duty, verify whether the owner of the weapons meets the conditions of weapons possession and by taking into account the official records of the competent authorities of the state administration. It should be noted that this proposal for a law will remove the observed shortcomings in the previous law, which concern shortcomings in the implementation of administrative procedures, which are carried out in connection with requests for the supply and registration of weapons, and will also more clearly regulate the supply and use of weapons for civil use. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the draft law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89429	Thank you very much. We will not call the guard, we will call on behalf of SDP's representative, the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What I want to highlight at the beginning of my debate is that we at the SDP Representatives Club are satisfied with the way, as this law finally came to the Parliament in this debate, since last year, there was a whole series of remarks, by all political options, but most of all the Croatian Hunting Union, and there were many objections and ultimately the law was withdrawn, the last year and a few days, was debated. They're respected corners. any observations which were made more or less at the time. Ugl. These remarks are respected and this law now goes into regular procedure, meaning in 2 readings, and that is how the laws in this House should be passed. With a wide public debate, with as much consensus as possible in the regular procedure. Now, what I want to point out to me at SDP's Club of Representatives, is that, we will support this bill, because with all these minor some other shortcomings, which here and there, they can be removed up to 2 readings, but we want to say that these things that have been introduced into this law are very good and what needs first to be pointed out, it is that this is not any great liberalisation of weapons procurement in Croatia. Since the arms procurement procedure remains the same as before, therefore, checks at the beginning, while applying remain the same, remain rigorous. What's good is that administrative and financial obstacles are lifted and made difficult, means hunters and people holding weapons. And that's what we pointed out in the debate last year, so if you pass the driver's exam and then you pass the medical examination and then by 65, no one passes anymore, that's also a logical sequence here. Because basically it was the cost of hunters, usually hunters, because hunters are the ones who have the most weapons. So that's one expense, where every five years you go for a checkup, you have to pay for it, so these are checks that have to go into labor medicine, etc. However, this measure, that primary protection physician will have to vent if conditions arise that a person can no longer have a weapon is sufficient in itself. The second thing, it should also be emphasized that this abolition, it's a lagging method, from 20-30 years ago when the police went around the neighbors and wondered what kind of person had submitted the weapon, sought etc. That's what's out of date, which is no longer necessary in today's time, and it's good to get it out of this bill. Today’s digitization and today’s times are available. There's enough insight into the criminal record. If there's a misdemeanor, of course the weapon will be seized. The other thing, people with weapons, sign their statement under criminal and material criminal responsibility, that they will keep that weapon under the conditions for which it is prescribed. And what I can say is, all the people who work in hunting alliances, the shooting societies, who are trained to own weapons, will certainly not play with it, will not mess with it, and will certainly keep their weapons in the conditions in which they must hold it, but on the other hand, there is one thing to emphasize. And today, when the police came to you at the first request for weapons, they came to your house and looked to see if you had a safe, if you had those terms that you own, regardless of what they found, at any point the PU could come into the house and see if you were still holding on to it, after a year, two years or three years. And that's what remains, it's not true that in some media it was emphasized that no one would look at you now, that you are calm, practically up to 70 years old, at any point, police officers can, if you estimate, that someone should come in control, come home to control and check how that weapon is held. But these unnecessary things, which were before, at first, at the request of weapons, will greatly make it easier for police officers to deal with some more serious and smarter things than they did at home and look at the rule of what's right. On the other hand, here is the State Secretary, in his introduction, said that only 2% of the criminal acts in HR are committed by registered weapons, and 98% are unregistered, talking about not being a problem for those people who legally hold weapons, but that again, that one big problem, then, is the biggest problem in Croatia, illegal weapons, which are still in large quantities. According to some estimates, about half a million pieces of illegal weapons are somewhere in Croatia, and that is where to put the emphasis on the future, that part through the educational and actions of the MUP, etc. to try to pull as much away from it as possible, let's say the illegal market, that that weapon pulls as much into the MUP. Another thing, again, I say, let's go a little bit into modernization, maybe we should think about hunting cards, not being the kind of paper that is today, in today's day, that it's, like, a former traffic permit, a traffic license, in three parts, three of which are ammunition in there. I've got it, I'm talking from my experience, well maybe some new one, I'm four years old... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that means a traffic license, you should think about it, maybe that's, uh, the hunting card's okay, I said wrong. So, an armed sheet that's like a traffic permit and can only come up with three guns on it. So maybe it was supposed to be the same thing, some kind of digital card, which then the M.O.P.A. agent will, when you get into your system, see exactly who has what, who doesn't have what. So I think if we've lifted the vehicle's book, some other paperwork, we can probably modernize ourselves, that we have one normal card, and I'm not bringing in what's said, an armed leaf of miles, for example. Let's just say this might be some kind of suggestion. Ugl. Here, more or less, I said everything. We will support this bill in the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we believe it is good and should be passed in this way in future laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89431	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89432	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club also believes that the way that this version has come into play today that we are discussing the bill on the acquisition of weapons of citizens is good and that we actually have one good bill of law in front of us, both in the classification of species, what enters into the common name of weapons and the categorization of the very types of weapons in these 3 categories that are listed. So, despite some of our colleagues thinking that this category D is superfluous, we don't think it's superfluous. There are also parts of the weapon that can be dangerous to the health, dangerous to the body parts, dangerous to the lives of people. And therefore, it is not excessively restrictive and allows people who need and for that kind of weapon to use it. We also think that the inspired debate that our colleague Sladovov had with regard to the silencers, is except that it is interesting and interesting to see that the representative is dedicated so much to one segment of one thing, from the perspective of, say, hunters, may be that the silencer is more suitable than a weapon without a silencer. But it's seen from the perspective of overall security and from the perspective of all the hunters, including animals, the silencer is a less noble and less acceptable means because animals and the animal world are general, I'm not a hunter so let's not be resented by hunters, it would be said that I'm a friend of animals, I certainly can't figure out so quickly and in time where danger can come from when someone uses a silencer from one who doesn't use a silencer. The same applies of course to people no matter how often or not frequent the use of silencers, the detection of the place where the gun comes from is with the silencer and for the weapons without silencers are two completely different things. So when we look at it on the side of the danger of where a possible bullet comes from or possible ammunition, then it should be looked at on that side, and I don't think your proposal is excessive. As far as this significant newspaper is concerned, which liberalises the procedure for the control of the possession and supply of weapons, which means that there is no more control within 5 years, for those who possess weapons or the same procedure for those who acquire new weapons as they have already passed. It is in our opinion well, assuming that all these items concerning medical control and overall controls work properly. Now here I saw that the Attorney General's Office was making some kind of remark, not much, one two or three in a public debate that was interesting, and I, if I may say so, have some concerns. So I have certain concerns whether the institutions of health, in the case of hunters, will probably not be a problem, but in the case of other people, let's say people for personal protection and for personal safety, and even in the event that I don't mind people who deal with hunting, many changes happen with people over the years. By the age of 70, let's say that the net gets an armed list and a gun license in the year 30 or 33. From 33 to 70 years of age, various social, psychological, and health changes can occur in each of us and happen. Alcohol, mental instability, total loss of physical characteristics such as vision, such as hearing, such as motorism and I don't know and let me not be resented by people from the health sector, whether they are and whether they can guarantee that kind of strictness of control as it can guarantee or guarantee in some other cases. Someone will say so and a car can serve to kill people, and it serves very often but not hotly, most often, very rarely warmly. When it comes to weapons, it often depends on the culture of carrying and owning or using weapons, and therefore it is no wonder that those who have permits have developed that culture to a greater or lesser extent. But there are those who, of course, don't have that culture. We are still a two-spectrum society, we are still out of the war, we still have the echoes of war trauma, we still have the elements of a culture that is violent on the one hand, and on the other hand we still have the culture "give me a fix, please." And here I have no suggestion what we should do but I think that until the second reading should see how and how to strengthen the mechanism of health control but at the same time also the mechanism of control that the police themselves can do. Once in a while, ad hoc control. There's one more thing I'd like to say about the collector that this was about. I don't think this is restrictive to collectors. Every collector should be reported no matter what kind of weapons collection he has. It was knives, daggers, sabers, marbles, which, of course, I don't know. It needs to be stimulated by this kind of human activity, not to be limited, it may need to be stimulated in some other way. but it also needs to be careful because it is a weapon that can be used at some point and as we know, in some wars and circumstances it has been used, including the last war. No matter which side I'm talking about, right? So we don't consider it particularly restrictive. What I would like to say is that practice is our restrictive, using the opportunity to say this about this law is to issue permits for the possession and use of hunting weapons to returnees in return areas and members primarily of the Serb community. It is unreasonable not to give people permission for so many years after the end of the war, especially in areas that are poorly populated, which are under the attack of wild animals, such as wild boars and other species of wild animals that destroy crops, which in the extreme line threaten and the safety of people in that area, which are poorly populated and which the police and neighbors themselves cannot protect in an adequate manner and should remove the obstacles that exist when people submit and demand that for reasons that are not strictly prescribed by law, which is that if someone was a participant of an armed rebellion, then the Law of Forgiveness was applied, and then someone did not delete it in the record and there is still such a clue somewhere, that this is updated. If they are not violent, if they break the law on another basis, if people are not prone to alcohol or mental disturbances of any kind, other words, if they have conjectures as well as the general other population, if they have not committed serious crimes such as war crimes, we do not see any reason why people in this respect should be limited to that right. 5-10 years after the war, still a man can understand it in a certain sense, but so many years after the war, I think it's too ethical. So, we ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to the extent that you can, too, pay attention to that segment, which, in a number of people, creates a sense of special treatment and does not contribute to 9 security, but actually endangers their safety, the security of their property and their total property. Otherwise, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this bill in the first reading, because we think that a lot of good work has been put in place and that they are and that they are in general such that they can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89433	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Curaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89434	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Assistant, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try it very briefly, and I'm going to recapture the position of the HSN Club that will support this in the first reading. Since this is also a harmonisation and a Council of Europe directive, we see that there is also a P.Z.E. label. The law means little harmonisation for the sake of uniform practice and implementation of the provisions of the directive in our legislation. Therefore, this bill regulates the procedures for the procurement and registration of weapons and the extension of the period of validity of the arms document and the way in which the citizens are treated with weapons and ammunition for civil use. What we need to say right at the beginning, that this is actually nothing that we are excessively liberalizing the possibility of procurement, just removing administrative barriers, unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, which have wasted time, I think in this case as well as in many cases, where we should do so and which concerns first and foremost the economy. Namely, in this case, when you first signed up, that you wanted to have, a certificate of ownership and proper use of weapons, you should have said the reason, and then went out, health assurance, and then waited for an officer, a police officer to come to your house, to announce himself at home, to see if you had that box of metal, so special, one small metal box for ammunition, a separate key, and then interrogate the neighbors, whether you were normal or not, if you had something that didn't have, a kind of security check, etc. etc. where, based on experience, nothing contributed dramatically. I don't know if anyone turned down on that. So we've spent the resources and time of our police officers, absolutely unnecessary, and in that sense this law goes, and that part is being thrown out of the obligation to carry out certain certificates. As far as the above mentioned medical examinations are concerned. In fact, we already had here in this House, or Parliament, the law on driving licences, to confirm health skills, transfer and liability, but also reduce the cost. I say again, reducing red tape and administrative barriers, that people don't have to pay and go to additional checks. So here every 5 years, the police will check whether you have any criminal records, or if something happened to your doctor to ask for confirmation of whether he had any changes in his condition, and he has an obligation, doctor, your prescribed general practice doctor, to report to the police after they deliver you to the gun-holder, to make some more serious changes in your health. Here, too, we simply need to trust institutions, i.e. people who are capable of determining serious business. So I can also withdraw analogy by obtaining building permits. In my opinion, absolutely unnecessary, the lecture of a request for a building permit, so that some officials study whether it is in conformity or not. This should be transferred to architects, who, by their stamp, must guarantee that everything is in accordance with the regulations, because if it is not, they lose the right, they lose the license, they lose the mark, and they are no longer allowed to do the job. That would speed things up a lot. So, in this, we're solving these administrative barriers, the conditions remain, 21 years ago, we know what sports is, we know what hunting is, I'm with counterpart Klaric, maybe I don't have to agree, that it should be for hunting before 18, this with 17,5 as well as passing and driving tests, so it can start before fulfilling the requirements of adulthood. And generally, this just matters, what we're trying to say, is that it's always better, legal than illegal. Because if someone might have an illegal weapon or not want to report it, they'd better have it legally, for all of these reasons and the way a license can be obtained. Both for, and a certificate of ability and a license for the supply of weapons. So, I say, the statistics are there, I mean the best, or, I mean, unquestionable. Yes, as far as we've heard on the board, as far as committing criminal acts with the use of firearms, only 2% is by those who had legal weapons and 98% by illegal weapons. So we can't talk about some kind of excessive security threat, and we're going to overly liberalize the possibility of getting permits in this. I think they simply edit into our EU legislative directives and thus, let's just say we do not throw unnecessary costs that have not produced any results and have been their own purpose, both for medical examinations of both officials and in the house and security checks, and for the very renewal of the armed list and for the authorisation itself. So I'm saying, we need a little more trust, of course, that the question of health skills is that it doesn't matter if someone has guns in the house if we know what it means, especially if children are present, etc. That there's always a big risk and that you don't have a weapon better than to have one if you're not going to use it in hunting or something you're dealing with than just having it. But first of all, we need to trust our institutions, and these general practitioners need to know what they're doing and why they're doing, and that if they have guns, they have to report and they need to, and I don't see any problem. And that's why we're going to support this saying I'd like it more if the suspension of such administrative, bureaucratic procedures was just costing, and apparently it really doesn't have any real effect, or I don't know maybe the secretary of state would say how much the weapons supply certificate was denied based on the security check and what the neighbors said about the person who applied. I think if it were a few, it would be the same range. Thank you for your attention, and the HNS club will support this in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89435	Thank you. And now the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives will perform in the image of the respected representative, Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89436	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I won't be long, I promise, but I have to refer to the topic I talk about from this pay phone. Very short, but often. It's discrimination after age. And I have to refer to so far the statements of colleagues and colleagues who speak have no views of up to 70 years of life. There is, in Article 15 you have paragraph 3, the first that a citizen who has been granted a licence to carry a weapon is obliged to inform the competent authority within eight days of the changes made by a family doctor. Second, in paragraph 4, the selected primary healthcare physician is obliged to inform the competent authority of any change in health condition affecting his psychophysical ability to hold arms. It therefore has and the competent authority is obliged to refer it to the second-degree authority for inspection. If the second-degree body finds that the health ministry is capable of costing. So there is, let's not deceive the public. Secondly, to be truly brief, discrimination against older people is prohibited by all international conventions and I don't know where you're from 70 years of age. Please, I have a license to hold a weapon, I have a license, I should go to a health check for a little while now. But that I have to go to a health check-up as a congressman? Well, isn't it sometimes our word from this pay phone more murderous than a weapon? For what 70 years if we have these solutions in Articles 15, paragraphs 3 and 4, why age discrimination? Please, the club will accept this law in the first reading, but make sure we don't discriminate against the elderly. I'm sorry, I think that's enough. If we have all the mechanisms that you have provided for this law to be a medical ability to hold arms after obtaining a permit for the first time examined through primary health care medicine or other doctors, I may end up in a hospital for some operation, but this doctor is obliged to inform the competent authority and send me to a second-degree body that will determine whether I am more capable of holding arms, then we do not need discrimination at age. In everything else, I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89437	Thank you. We will now move to an individual debate and the first to come forward is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89438	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll do it real quick because I said it on behalf of the club, but I want to turn on two things, so one thing's also on the trail of what my colleague Varda was saying. So I've already said on behalf of the club that it's good to remove this medical examination obligation every five years that's been up until now, it's been introduced that the primary protection doctor has to notify the MAP if there are any circumstances why the person who got the permit can no longer hold. However, it may be necessary to consider introducing another article or provision that a person who has a gun, who has also received permission to hold, hold and carry, a hunter, etc. to have an obligation at least once a year to show up to a doctor, not for the sake of guns, but to show up... because you can theoretically experience a situation where a man for 15, 20 years doesn't go to a doctor. Okay, the review doesn't matter, the review doesn't check, but can it happen that a man doesn't go 20 years to a doctor? Yeah, and especially if he knows he's got a problem that might make him take his weapon, then he's not gonna go to the doctor yet. So he doesn't look classical, I say at least he shows up at the doctor's if he doesn't show up then the doctor reports to the M.O.P. and then he sees what's up with him. The difference is also a medical examination that has been going on for the past five years, which has been paid so far, which goes to certain institutions means it does not go to a doctor of general practice, but that should be considered. The other thing, another thing, so if a man has a home weapon and comes into conflict with a neighbor or with someone else in such cases, in general, someone can, and it often happens in practice, that those who are hunters know, it is known that someone reports that he has been threatened, etc., the police are coming, taking his weapon, and so it is necessary to verify the justification of these threats and how serious this situation is. However, the procedure by the time a man gets into a situation so that he can get his weapon back he can last for several years and a long period, etc. So, eventually, in this regard, everything is considered and that these procedures determine the seriousness of these conflicts, threats, etc. As the MAP will now be relieved in these verification processes at the very beginning of granting an authorisation to own a weapon. So, you're not going to go home now, you're not going to check this out with your neighbors, so in some of these situations to eventually think about it, it means speeding up the process. Here, so much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89439	Thank you. You were really short, but you have four replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89440	Dear fellow Djujic, I have been a member of a hunting society since I was 16, since the 1980s, so I have a weapon for 38 years and I move among people with weapons. And I can tell you that at the time of Yugoslavia, at that time, when you suddenly obtained weapons or there were medical examinations, there were no obstacles to holding and carrying weapons. About 1996, 1997, I think they introduced something like that. If you were listening to a colleague of Varga, I think he specifically said everything, and also to the Secretary of State himself, and to the debates of the former when we talk about what was done with the legal weapon, which was misused by illegal weapons. So, even that 2% percentage is smaller, and 98% is something illegal. And what my colleague Curaj said, God forbid it's as legal as possible because it's a fact that a legal weapon doesn't cause crimes, but illegal. And the only problem with weapons is illegal weapons. Legal weapons, especially in shooting clubs, are highly controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89441	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89442	Well, colleague Klaric, I agree with you. I don't know what I said differently than what you said. So, in the debate on behalf of the club and now. So, I was also saying that the largest number of criminal acts committed by illegal weapons, if you come in a little bit, I was preparing for this debate, even illegal weapons are cheaper today than legally purchased. So whoever wants to get the guns will get it. And unfortunately, in our country, it's no big deal, coming up with a weapon. So, I said on behalf of the club, so you should make an effort to reduce the number of illegal weapons on Croatian streets. Let's say it like that. And I didn't say anything different from you. I also welcomed the abolition of mandatory medical examination every five years and I welcome this way the MUP came out. But I'm just saying that maybe you should think about not getting a permit and then 20 years from now not coming to the doctor and that this doctor is going to inform someone at all if there's been any changes. But I'm not talking about a classic medical examination that would then be paid and that would cost and that would go all the way through. Come to the doctor, good afternoon, I'm here, I'm healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89443	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89444	Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, that I could really agree with you that what you said in the opening and now finally regarding health checks that he has this anxiety, that someone really doesn't leave, thank God he didn't have the need to see a doctor for 5-10 years, so perhaps the proposal would be that given that every 5 years the MAP has to check whether the person in the criminal record is, etc., that he immediately contacted the chosen doctor, the primary physician, therefore, the doctor of general practice to get the information whether or not he came at all. And then to act on it, maybe you should at least at least call your doctor to find out if there are any problems or not because they might come here, maybe not 5 or 10 years anyway, but there could be such situations that someone or goes to a private person directly, pays for checks, doesn't use health care... avoid such things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89445	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89446	Here, thanks, buddy. That's a good suggestion. So, what, that's just the subject we need to talk about. What you said, so you don't have to stick to what I said for a year now. But OK, 5 years, 10 years, because there really are people who might be, they don't come to a doctor for years when they're younger, but I'm talking about when you leave later. All right, colleague Klaric. The vehicle is a vehicle, the weapon is a weapon. We can all agree on that. So here, Comrade Curaj, I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89447	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89448	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, in your debate, you have raised concern and because of these possibilities that people in their period of arms possessions will stretch to 20 years not to exercise control and I think that's the problem, and I think that the problem is something that I think we have now in action, which is incoherence within the state itself and its institutions. People in a situation where they have certain disorders and problems with their health should be, as I would say, connected to both the MUP and the health system, and there should be an automatic situation that I don't think is happening right now. So, this relationship with human health is also not very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89449	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89450	Thank you. Comrade Maras, that's it. I say again as I said on behalf of the Club, so we're going to the 21st century, we're going into some digitization, and we've already done a lot as a country with an e-citizen system already sees everything there, and exactly what you said, on that trail we should move on and it should be connected means completely everything in the state, and that's exactly what I suggested about the gun list. So, there's no need for you to carry a sheet or two sheets with you now if you happen to have 4 pieces of weapons when everything is digitized and I don't know, the active MUP simply by your own means can when it enters your base see if you have a weapon, you don't have what you have of weapons and actually see everything about you. So you should always go into modernisation and reduce administrative costs as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89451	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89452	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am glad that you mentioned how you should take care of when false accusations are made that you temporarily take away weapons and I suppose you thought you were connected, meaning the confiscation of weapons in public order and peace so that you should definitely think about it when in which case, because often my fellow hunters complain that they remember as second-row citizens, that everyone knows that hunters, there are challenges and threats that there will be false accusations, so it should certainly be considered and I agree that the day lacks this connection system because this is 8 days, you have to inform if you changed the doctor general practice, there are various reasons why someone changes the doctor's general practice and it would be good that it is already connected and that it is seen when someone who owns the weapon, changed the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89453	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89454	That's exactly what fellowmen are, so the hunters are the most important we're talking about hunters because they have the most weapons right under special surveillance compared to other citizens, and now you don't even have to participate in anything, you happen to be in a place where there's been some kind of fight, the police come to write you down, you automatically get that criminal punishment for disturbing the public, and so you go to the protesters, to disrupt public order and peace, pay 300 kuna, but the police come to you right away and take your weapons. And now this process until it's determined what's serious, what's not serious, was it a threat, wasn't a threat, it's taking too long. And that's all there is to be taken into account, especially now I think there's room for these processes to be accelerated, given that here's a lot to be saved already in this first procedure of issuing armed permits and obtaining permits, etc. Because workers will no longer have to wait a row for months to visit their neighbors, to talk to family members, etc. So here, I also support your debate, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89455	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here's a lot of controversy and a lot of debates have gone on about these doctors' examinations of the year, and here's what I've encouraged my colleague Varga to report on the issue that he doesn't turn out to have any age discrimination. In my replica to the secretary of state at the beginning when I mentioned citizens over 70 and review every 5 years, whether they are too small or should be a little more frequent to set it up, here through this debate we have seen a few proposals that might be good for these reviews but I have also seen a clear difference of normal and active pensioners or persons who, after the 1970s, and those who do not, but do not matter, do not turn out to be of any age discrimination, I think it is very important and very important that a great emphasis is precisely on a physician of primary health care who normally has to monitor the state of every citizen and this obligation of every person who owns a weapon that has to inform his doctor primary health care and normally that every 5 years there is a police administration, I think that there is enough assurance that everything will be okay. At the beginning of that statistics the secretary of state referred to in the reply to that replica, which is that 2% of the legal weapons participated in some kind of criminal act, I think it shows enough and that this is one of the most important arguments that legal weapons are not a problem but precisely prevention and abolition and banning and control of the maximum of these illegal weapons that are definitely around us in our society. Two things that have been simplified by this bill are interesting, this state secret did not specifically say how difficult these activities may have made it possible for police officers to work or take their time, but I think it's good to simplify themselves, which is precisely when they purchase weapons, more police officers will not come into the field and check, question neighbors about the apartment mentally, health or already what kind of person, where there may be some discrimination and malfeasance but this part where police officers at the time of that check will not check whether these weapons are in adequate spaces and we know that we have previously had a lot of problems with a large number of weapons that were not adequately located even here at some criminal responsibility each citizen is responsible for that. I think maybe we should definitely consider whether in certain situations police officers should still go out in the field because there was a lot of controversy when there was a commitment to these metal crates and everything, that there was little resistance and that it cost the same price, and now under this I don't think so much of hunters, but of the people who reported the weapons solely for personal safety. It is again two different that hunters are subject to certain rules and are normally more responsible than others. So I think there's definitely some other things that can get a little better around it. This commission, which I'm the Chief of Police in the procurement of weapons for personal security, organizes and conducts and checks every person for why he's supplying weapons, I think it's working well and there aren't any particular problems here, but I say again, just for the sake of this adequate holding in certain areas of arms, I think we can definitely still have some movement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89457	Thank you. And we have three replicas on you. Honorable representative Ante Sanader will now be first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89458	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Comrade Bačić, I don't think it's a problem that you responded to Varga, or what he is to you, but is a problem of perception. The problem is that we talk about people who have guns like some dangerous types, especially those who have legal weapons, which is a tragic perception in our society because it's obviously the legacy of some times when it was very dangerous to have weapons, when it was strictly controlled and far more dangerous are drivers... What kind of examinations should we go as drivers without telling politicians, not to tell the MPs that we bring here, we vote for laws, how much we should be examined, every month if these hunters do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when we talk about guns, then we only think about hunters, people who have registered weapons, we don't mean those who are illegal because we don't know about them. But for those of you who are hunters, then we're about them and about them now we're creating entire philosophies. That's the problem, that perception we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89459	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89460	Thank you, colleague Sanader, absolutely agree with you, perception just because weapons are normally a difficult topic and as soon as we mention weapons we want maybe even bigger restrictions is everything. But what I mentioned in the presentation was only that item and the first statistics, which is that 2% of the legal weapons are involved in some kind of criminal act, and even statistics are less as some colleagues point out. I think that's an argument enough that guns, legal weapons, are not a problem, but what's on the streets and it's not registered anywhere. Of course cars in that purpose are much bigger problems than legal weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89461	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89462	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you said in your debate that there will be no verification now, that the person under material responsibility is signing it and that is correct to sign it. However, it does not mean that there will be no verification, so the State Secretary also said in the introduction and wrote in the law. So if employees, police administration or competent police department becomes an assessment that there is a reasonable reason to go to someone's extraordinary control, and that was so far, you would now be examined at the beginning but that didn't mean that five years ago no one would look at you, for a year you came home to control to see what conditions you hold it and it remains. So they'll be under control. Another thing, at any time, I can make a decision to get somewhere and check it out. And the other thing, it's not a small penalty for that, but it means you, it's not what I'm talking about right now under material, criminal responsibility and nothing to anyone, so the punishment is up to 60 days in prison, 100 grand in kuna, it's serious punishment, and I don't think anyone would, would play with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89463	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89464	Thank you. Dear colleague, as for these controls and the conditions of holding arms and these metal crates, I spoke for a personal reason because I attended once when that very check was and I saw nothing wrong. However, this presence of police officers in general... I didn't mean anything by it, so I was wondering how much time it took for a particular police station if it was so much a problem that and why maybe to throw out, why not give a police officer and go to that check. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89465	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89466	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, I would like to primarily commend this much more modern law on the acquisition and possession of weapons. The statistics we've heard are such that our citizens, athletes and hunters who have licenses are very disciplined, very aware. And we have a very small number of weapons-registered crimes. But I would not agree with you, or your vision regarding medical examinations for people over 80 years old, because I think in this law, at least in the first reading on one very good lead to detect changes in all those who possess permits through the MUP and through primary health care doctors, we would also include these persons over 70 years old and I personally think there is no need for any age restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89467	Thank you very much. Next Individual Discussion And I'm sorry for the answer, Mr. Bacic. [[/Intruder: Can't you just?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mikulić, I will agree with you, which is why this debate at the plenary session is good because in this short time we discussed it in the first reading of the law, I was first informed by certain colleagues about these medical examinations over 70 years ago, so I immediately withdrew it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89469	Now the next individual debate will be that respected representative of Stjepan Curaj. Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89471	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I don't know you don't have such a bad perception of sports clubs. I don't know if you were a member of the sports club and worked on it, you don't get that kind of weapon, at least that's how I didn't experience it at my sports club. When I signed up and became a member of a sports club, then you have to go through education, weapons training, five items of some of them we've been listening to there all kinds of training, training, and only then is it won. You don't get a gun when you show up one time and sign up like that dart club and throw away two darts and get a license. I don't know how you were at the club, but it's not an experience but it's far more serious and rigorous and no member of the sports club can get a gun license without passing education and practical experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89472	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89473	Yeah, I wasn't just a member of the sports club, I was the director of a civil shooting range, or a company that runs a civilian shooting range, so I'm organizing international events, and I've really met with everything. And yes, it should be so, it's prescribed and it has to, I just want to know if anyone's controlling it, it's all a story. Just that part of the story so it wouldn't happen by chance because I know what they told me, so why go there when it might be more flexible. I'm not saying that someone offered to make some leaps, I'm not saying, I won't sin my soul, but I know that I went through the MUP and through that whole system and I'd just like the same theoretical and same practical, even more practical because a lot of firearm injuries happen in inadequate and unprofessional handling the same. So more practice is more important to maltene than theory because in theory we can all know everything. So here's only on that side you'd like to get information whether it's being conducted or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89474	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89475	Honorable representatives of the ministry, Vice-President of the Parliament. First of all, praise and gratitude for being a huge step forward in relation to previous exposure or the previous initial proposal of the Arms Act. So the basic remarks that we were making back then, and I really participated actively in this debate and it was a pleasure to listen because we were more or less up here and the opposition and position agreed in some things. So the first thing that's good in this bill of law is finally solving this issue of health checks. I agree entirely with the presentation of my colleague, Varda, who is 70 years old or by putting some age limit into some practical discrimination frameworks. Also, this law would have been perfected if some other things had been incorporated into it in relation to previous agreements stemming from a public debate, including suggestions and the Shooting Union, but also the Croatian Hunting Union, originally for the reasons of those age limits of 9, 16 according to the original proposal and now these 17,5. As you've given me an explanation, it's because of suggestions from other ministries, but I think we still need to think about these age limits, especially because we have EU practice and I don't see any reason why our citizens would in some way discriminate against the citizens of some other European countries. The law is being passed, and the Croatian Hunting Union has also given you an observation that, in some description, means holding, carrying weapons, and as one of the general conditions is that the person has passed the hunting exam and is actively engaged in hunting. The very evidence and the fact that this is the case, and the hunting year does not last from 31.12. to 1 January, but lasts from 31. The Croatian Hunting Union also has a ID card for each year, which is proof in itself, that such a person, engaged in hunting, therefore, meets the conditions, both holding and carrying arms. And I think we could consider that proposal from the Croatian Hunting Union. There's a question being raised here, if we've passed the provision and rightly so, you've done what you did in this bill, you've made a commitment to a doctor's examination, before you get a license for arms, after you've obtained the same weapon, a gun is issued, and an armed list is issued. My colleague did the right thing, he said, that he's already a little out of date, and I think it would be enough, given the IT capabilities and the MUP and all of us to have her in electronic form and the type of electronic card. But in most European countries, where we can look at ourselves by example, for the further supply of weapons, which we already have a medical examination, we don't have to do a new medical examination, so we have it. We've acquired weapons, and we've obtained them according to this law, according to approval, of all these previous actions, the investigations they've done by the MUP. Then, according to this, it is quite realistic and acceptable proposal that such a person who is engaged in active hunting, and for certain types of game and different calibers, both necessary and different types of weapons, can also serve the same identity as that permit for the purchase of such weapons, provided that he legally requires the seller to report the same to the MUP, as well as whoever obtained the weapons, registration, armed paper and records, of this new weapon obtained in the MUP. It's the part and what's questionable, and somehow it's left in the air hanging, in which situations and when there's some kind of check of the gun-holder, or even that part of the liquor test in cases where I don't know, on the way back, from some activity, a shooting club, hunting, hunting, or somewhere, to stop a hunter or a gunman and make some kind of an alcoholic test and that's the basis for taking a weapon. We don't think that's a good solution in that part either, because in itself, it's not an offence. And then the question arises, if, in cases of some investigative actions, if no offence was committed, and that the weapon was taken, and without a judicial verdict, or on the basis of only some indications, and without a court order, he thought it was not the right solution, and neither was practice in European countries. So, when we look at the whole law, all the changes that he has suffered, especially in terms of medical examinations, especially with regard to previous actions, when the employees of the MUP were able to visit the neighborhoods, our particular citizen, look for information, some information about him, these are the backlogs of some former times, and taught the experience that I personally had, and I believe some of these, present parliamentary representatives from the time of Yugoslavia, we had, at that time, somehow a completely different system, a much more liberal relationship to supply, towards holding arms, than it is practically today, which is okay to run and record, to take care of everything. But also this part of the review, which was left out for every praise and I think it would have a pretty big echo among both hunters and shooters, because the costs themselves of the review were moving between 350-550 kn, for every pipe on the MUP's markings were seemed and were about 37 kn, if someone owned 3, 4, 5 pipes, it was quite a cost. Not to mention those costs that members of such organisations have, and for the purchase of ammunition, for the purchase of all other equipment, for the membership fees of the Croatian Hunting Union, for the County Hunting Union, for all those contributions, according to the societies in which it is located. Already in themselves, these data, these details speak of the seriousness of all of this, and thus, confirms that the story, that the owners who legally own weapons are in a way taking care of them, are very much taking care of their behavior, and that I am not saying that they are model citizens and that most of all the criminal acts happen with illegal weapons, which, unfortunately, they have, according to all the information available, according to analyses, are much, much more in Croatia than legal weapons. I'm sure it's the consequences of both war events and our spaces. However, in this part, all of these suggestions, which we have put out here today, are either well-intentioned, well-intentioned and in the sense that, where you see it, talk about some kind of discrimination per year, but also in any case also obliges a doctor of general practice to monitor the state of each of us. In that part, this unnecessary bureaucracy is being solved. And perhaps a little step forward to be part of the suggestion, by the Croatian Hunting Union, the Hunting Alliance, by organisations actively participating in the whole process, to sort of fit into this bill and I think that it is acceptable for each of us. In any case, the control of legal weapons is much greater than that carried out by the MUP itself, because every member of any society in itself is already doing control of his friend with whom he moves with such a kind of kind of, let's call it, tools, because the weapon is practically, who is actively engaged in hunting, some kind and tools, because when we talk about hunting then it's often thought that it's just shooting, essentially the name of the Croatian Hunting Union, which is over 100 years old, says that it's an organization and every hunting society that serves to grow, protect and then it's just hunting savages, and in the whole process, only one small segment, and we all take care of security together, but also about the behavior of our colleagues in all these associations, and that is at the end and the result of such a small percentage unfortunately... That can't be avoided by some bad with legal weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89476	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, you said that this situation that I was talking about, so the seized weapons by the police in some situations I don't know, criminal, threat, etc., so you said that maybe you should consider not doing it without court rulings or any court rulings. Unfortunately, however, we live in a country where the judiciary is as it is and it could take years and should be a little careful there. So my opinion is that it's OK for someone to take your weapon right away and that's preventive action. But the process of determining the seriousness of a breach, threats or so on, must be significantly accelerated. So it's easy for the police to determine whether or not a threat has been made. It doesn't take them a month to see if someone's been hooking up with someone, so this guy, knowing he's a hunter, basically, and having a gun, he threatened to kill me, you can see that right away. So that's where we need to speed it up, but we don't need to give it up completely. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89478	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89479	I don't know if you understand me or if I may have misrepresented you, but I did say it, and it literally does. It is simply required to comply with the practice of other EU member states. to take the weapon immediately, immediately by police officers if any offence or criminal offence has been committed. For every other confiscation because the weapon is property, and the property in this system of ours should be unimpeached. There should either be a judicial solution of some kind, or temporary confiscation of weapons should be made in the light of a solution which may lead to judicial and criminal proceedings that have been brought to an end. And what is the practice in the Republic of Croatia we all know well, that such procedures can last for 3, 4, 5 and more years, and in that case the question arises who is damaged. Is he to whom his property has been wrongly taken away or who has committed such an act?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89480	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89481	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Klaric, why the restrictions? You have warned of this regarding the directives and practices of the countries of the Eu, whose member we are. So we're pushing for solutions that we're no bigger Catholic than the Pope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89482	The answer of the respected representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89483	That's right. We have a complex thing that's been going on for hundreds of years. We have experience and life practice and we have organizations that are worthy of praise that they exist and that they take care of it all at all. So any restrictions on that part of something that is positive means that we are in fact violating this process of positivity and inciting something that is negative, and in any case this number of so many tens of thousands of illegal weapons and of those 98 and some percent of the violations and crimes committed with illegal weapons. So when we talk about guns, public perception is always negative, but it has to be pointed out what's negative in guns. It's a negative illegal possession of weapons, illegal possession of weapons from it stems from criminal acts. But the legal weapon is exactly the weapon that the shooter at the shooting club is a tool or hunter in a hunting company.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89484	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, he will finally say something to the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89485	... and the final provisions to me do not make it clear in that section that persons who have acquired an armed sheet or a licence to hold and carry arms before the entry into force of this Act will, at the end of the time on which they were granted that authorisation, submit a new request to them and that the MAP will then extend it to them by the age of 70. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] However, there is no mention of a medical examination anywhere. Do these individuals then have to re-do medical examinations or medical examinations that they have done, for example? Someone who made it 3 years ago and got permission to 5, now enters the law for a couple of months and that license expires in two years, after the end they have to submit a request to the MUP new for an extension until the 70th, whether we have that first medical check-up or they will have to go again. So it wasn't me who was able to identify it from those transitional and final provisions. Only if you can, that would explain what's in that case. Here, second we said so, this bill is good and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89486	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Zarko Katic will answer that question for sure. Here you go. State Secretary at the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for your suggestions and suggestions in the debate. I especially thank you for supporting this law that you have recognized the effort and I would say first of all that the Proposer's hearing is going into step with modern times, that it also respects your suggestions that have been made here a year and a few days ago. Also, suggestions from associations such as the Croatian Hunting Union, the Croatian Shooting Union, that it had listened to the voice of the public, but also that it had seen what the practice was wearing. So he kept an eye on what he had done so far under the laws in force. For example, in the previous year since 2017 of the 16906 applications for authorisation for the supply of arms, applications have been rejected in only 337 cases. So on this, too, so-called. In the current stricter law, there were relatively few denied requirements and significant resources of the MUP were spent and citizens were also significantly more burdened and their resources were spent. So on the basis of all this, we realized that we needed to change the approach but there are no claims or titles that the citizens would be armed, that they would get weapons and those who had no right to arms. It is precisely the intensities of this law that citizens who have a justifiable reason for the purchase of weapons have all the other precise conditions that have not changed, that they get their approval as soon as possible and with as little means as possible and those who do not have the right to arms either because they have protected the punishment of a person, so that they are prone to commit crimes and infringements with elements of violence, persons who are not healthy or persons who do not fulfil any other condition, that they cannot reach that weapon nor further. As I said, there are currently 270,000 weapons registered in our country, of which 262,000 are owned by natural persons and about 8,000 pieces, slightly less than 8,000 owned by legal entities, primarily security companies. Claims that a lot of armed persons are also not standing, that weapon owns a total of less than 104,000 people, so 104,000 of which are the largest part as I said, hunters own weapons. Most of these people, over 40% of them only have one weapon. One piece of weaponry. About 23% have two pieces of weaponry, 16% three, and just say 3% have ten pieces of weaponry or more. So, we think that the citizens are not so armed but it is crucial and it remains unchanged, the weapon is a dangerous thing and therefore should be carefully applied to this law, these new institutes use very effectively, carry out checks and further, Mr Bačić said, I did not refer enough to the provisions that speak about the preservation, proper safeguarding of weapons, so it is explicitly written in Article 13(2) that in the event of doubt, there will be checks on the existence of valid conditions for holding arms and exist, as Mr Djujic said and we think of harsh sanctions for those who do not comply, so up to 40,000 kuna fines. In the preparation of the law working group but the minister, the chief director of police and other ministry officials held several meetings with the hunting and shooting alliance, and so we heard the voice of the public, the law passed a prescribed public debate, going as you said in two readings, we will respect the belief and some of the observations and suggestions made here and I will firmly believe that a more high-quality proposal of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens will come to you. In the end, just allow me to address citizens, especially those who have weapons in the house, whether they are legal weapons, and especially illegal weapons to be carefully guarded from other persons who do not have the right to use it, especially those who have the most vulnerable, are children, and those who possess illegal weapons, if they find it to be resolved without delaying the application of police administrations or stations, so it will not be sanctioned in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 79 of this proposal of the law, that these weapons be dealt with as soon as possible to a legal and painless person and thus enable their inhabitants and loved ones to have a peaceful dream. To not forget the answer to Mr. Djujic, so health assurances in the case you mentioned will be worth it, so citizens won't have to come up with a new medical conviction. Thank you again for your contribution in preparing as high-quality final proposal of the Arms Act as possible, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89488	Thank you, Mr. Katic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89489	Thank you very much. Mr Katic, I am pleased with your answer, what you said at the end, and first of all I want to stress once again that this is the way the laws should be passed. You yourself said that the task force has, on several occasions, spoken to both the Croatian Hunting Union and the shooting societies in recent years, which is evident because before that proposal was a year and a few days ago, all of us MPs here have received a bunch of e-mails from both the hunting alliance and from all the associations and warnings that those things were wrong, this time it was missing or as if there was nothing, in fact the atmosphere is like the law is not being passed at all and it shows that the law is good. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89490	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. Another replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89491	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you've said probably a slip in your now final statement that if citizens find illegal weapons on them, you probably thought that if you, Mr. Bukarica, just give it a moment, please, Mr. Bukarica, give it now quite a replica to Mr. Katic, then if they find it and probably people are aware that they either have or have no weapons, since you said that illegal weapons can be returned continuously, means they can be brought to a police station without any sanctions. I haven't noticed that lately you've been doing some of this type of media action, that it's stimulated people to get even more conscious, maybe some of them aren't aware that they'd come back, try to get a little popularize it, and show people that in this way they can get rid of these weapons, and on the other hand, to warn people about the danger of keeping such weapons at home and for their house and for everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89492	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. The reply to the replica, Secretary of State Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89493	Thank you very much. Actions are constantly, so preventive actions are constantly being maintained through our "Slight Weapons, Less Tragedy" action. Preventions never enough, maybe we should be louder, we'll take it into consideration but indeed this action is constantly being carried out in our police administrations and stations and there are prevention officers who are one of the main tasks. When I mentioned to the citizens who found the weapon. Those who know, of course have guns, of course I call them, but it often happens that after the death of one of the hosts or during the reconstruction of an object to find a weapon, it's not a rare case, so even those who didn't know they had a weapon but find it to get it without delay and they'll get a police officer and take it without danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89494	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Zarko Katic, for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank another respected state secretary, Mr. Zarko Katic and Mr. Miroslav Maretic, head of the Interior Ministry Service for reasons and answers regarding the first proposal for a law on the procurement and possession of weapons of citizens. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89495	Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 364. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- A proposal of the Law on the acquisition and possession of weapons of citizens and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89496	We move to the next item of daily work: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia related to the announced renationalisation of INA and privatisation of 25% less than one of the shares of HEP Carriers: 19 representatives in the Croatian Parliament are the submiters of 19 representatives based on Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government filed a report. I'd like to ask the representative of the applicant of Interpellation, Mr. Pejo Grbin, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for interpretation. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Tonight we're in a slightly bizarre situation. Bizarre so much that we will discuss the interpretation that is in work, which is dedicated to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 20 January 2017. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. On 20 January 2017, we MPs who sent this interpretation asked to discuss nationalisation of the INA in the Croatian Parliament, which should be financed through the privatisation of HEP. We asked for this less than a month after Croatian Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic, on that strange, unusual press that took place on Christmas Day 2016 announced that the Republic of Croatia is going to buy INA. Neither to Mr. Boza Petrov, who was the president of the Croatian Parliament, nor his successor Mr. Jandrokovic, this topic was obviously not important because there are probably more important things for the Republic of Croatia than the ownership share of the Republic of Croatia in HEP and INA. The ruling year and 6 months refused to put this topic on the agenda, and to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament where it is a great place to talk about whether we need nationalisation of the INA and if we need to finance it properly through the privatisation of HEP. Fortunately, however, we insisted some time ago and managed to install provisions that enable us to put some topics on the agenda with the amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And here we are, here we are today in front of a half-empty assembly, at 7:10 p.m. we are talking about INA and HEP, an extremely important issue for the Republic of Croatia, which may not be current at this time, but is because we also saw over the weekend that letters are coming to the government of the Republic of Croatia that someone is offering to buy from Croatia its share in the INA or that they would like to buy the entire INA. So this is the business that is happening, this affects the economy of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, this affects the standard of Croatian citizens and this is something that the Croatian Parliament should have discussed long ago. But given that some, perhaps even here in the meantime, have forgotten what this is about, I'm going to remind you what the conclusions we're proposing are but also why we're proposing them. So let's move forward, the first conclusion that we have proposed is: "The government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to notify the Croatian Parliament within 15 days of the status and course of the infringement procedure that the European Commission has initiated in connection with the provisions of the INA Privatisation Act." I don't know if anyone remembers it anymore but against the Republic of Croatia is currently being prosecuted for breach of EU law due to the INA Privatisation Act. Although in January 2017 we asked that we be informed within 15 days of the status of the case by the Government of course did not. And the Croatian Parliament doesn't even know at this point in time what the case is, what is happening, how it represents us, what direction we are going in and what we are going to argue to the European Commission why this law should remain in force. And let me remind you, the European Commission is far after this interpretation was handed over, on 13 July 2017 it decided to refer Croatia to the EU Court of Justice. The following conclusion we have proposed is: "The Croatian Parliament supports the legislative solutions set out in Article 10 of the Law on Privatisation of the INA which ensures the protection of the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia and tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to represent the need to maintain such solutions in the process before the European Commission and the EU Court of Justice." And these are solutions that guarantee the Republic of Croatia that they will be able to control who owns the largest energy company in the country. That they will be able to control that the property of that company does not go into some hands that will be blackmailed by the Republic of Croatia, our security, etc. A few weeks ago, we talked about lex-LNG, and then your mouths were full of energy security, and the government is showing that this conclusion should not be accepted. But those aren't all conclusions either, there are more. The third conclusion we propose. Without delay, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to publish a decision of the arbitration court established under the rules of the UN Commission for International Trade Law in Geneva between the Republic of Croatia and the MOL Group, and is obliged to notify the Croatian Parliament within 15 days of the further steps it will take in relation to that decision. Has the government ever announced that decision? It was published by the Croatian media or first published by MOL on the Hungarian Stock Exchange because MOL is allowed to publish this decision in Hungary, but Croatia must not in Croatia. In the meantime, we also conducted a procedure to refut that arbitration decision. That's not what we've been able to do. There's been a new cost. We have yet another arbitration procedure, we don't know how it will end, we don't know what the views of the Republic of Croatia are, we don't know anything. And it's billions. Fourth conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform the Croatian Assembly within 90 days of the analysis of the costs and benefits of the renationalisation of INA, and within the same time, it is obliged to produce a strategy for the management and development of the INA in the event of the purchase of MOL shares. We don't know anything about that. All we know is that it was only in April this year that we were able to choose a consultant to renationalize the INA. The procedure began with that famous press on Christmas Eve 2016 and then Croatia chose a Privatisation Advisor after only a year and 4 months. Not for privatisation, for nationalization. And the fifth conclusion. And I would especially like to hear the position of the Honorable Minister, because at the moment we put up with this impelation, at the moment the government was manifested, he was nowhere near the position he is now in and I hold that his views might have been different from those he would have to represent now or at least that was the way he acted from his statements. The next conclusion that today may be most important because of the data we learned in the meantime is the following. The Croatian Parliament opposes the privatisation of HEP for the renationalisation of INA, and is tasked with the government of the Republic of Croatia to develop other models of financing the possible purchase of INA shares from MOL. I'll do it again. Some may argue that this topic has been declassified. But it's not. This topic is only here and there comes to the surface, only here and there when we find out some fact, when we find out some data, or when a letter like this comes up that we've had a chance to read over the weekend, and then we remember that we have a huge problem. We have arbitration procedures of several billion kunas, we have the fact that the current owner of INA, the majority INA owner of the INA, does not invest, that this majority INA owner at the same time plans to reduce production capacity in INA, that the Republic of Croatia fails to achieve its share, that in the creation of such a situation one famous, famous meeting in a restaurant where cell batteries were removed, and that the Croatian economy suffers because of this situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, not today, and it has been more than a year and 6 months since we heard at the famous press conference that we were going to enter into the process of buying MOL's stake in INA, we did not get an answer to the following questions. How much is this going to cost, how much is this nationalisation going to cost Croatian citizens? We have not heard the answer to the question of how much it will cost after that nationalisation, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have to invest in the INA in one way or another, not the money of the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, or the Honorable Minister of Economy, but the money of the Croatian citizens, so that the INA becomes profitable and can function. But aside from the cost question, we never got an answer to the question of what we're going to do with INA when we nationalize it. Only here and there did the thesis appear shyly that we would find a new strategic partner who would then buy from the government a share in the INA. So please explain to me how logical it is and how logical it is that we spend billions to nationalize INA to sell it to someone. Please explain that to me. Imagine that I'm ignorant, imagine that I have no idea about this, and try to explain to me in a brief and simple way what the logic is to buy something, to pay it dearly, and then to get rid of it in order to sell it. But now we come up with questions that are familiar, which we were asking there in December 2016. How are we going to raise money to pay for the nationalisation of INA? Now, this answer is famous. This answer is known because it has been repeatedly represented by the prime minister, former Deputy Prime Minister of the government, fortunately the former, I wonder if this is also the position of the current economy minister, which is that nationalisation of the INA will be paid by the privatisation of HEP. So, the nationalisation of the oil company, the oil processing company, which produces fuel for motor vehicles, we will pay by privatising the electricity company, at a time when the whole of Europe is going towards reducing the car with internal combustion and replacing it with vehicles... to electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just one example. In 2018, we will hand over our share of the company that produces electricity, in order to return the money to the company that produces oil, without knowing what to do with the company that produces oil, when we buy it and pay dearly. And all of this under the auspices of distinguished colleagues and colleagues from HDZ under the auspices of their diameter, under the auspices of their economy minister, is probably modelled by previous privatisation stories in Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ allow me for a moment to return to 2016 but not to this December and not to this press conference, but a few months before that, when you under the slogan credible from the citizens of Croatia, asked for support for the victory of the elections, which you unfortunately received, when you sent these citizens the following. And it's an excerpt from your program. You said you'd be infrastructure firms, including the one whose area of action is el. Energy, shut down from privatisation. That in your 2016 programme under the slogan credible, we will not privatise infrastructure companies, which are engaged in el. energy. From the moment you promised that to the citizens until the moment you announced a breach of that promise didn't last half a year, it was indeed credible. And I wonder what it would be like to go out in August 2016 in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we'll tell you what, we'll sell HEP. Yeah, it's our policy to sell HEP, honestly, but of course it doesn't lie to you, it's not your way of working, and you did what you did. However, it would be enough for the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to worry about the story about the INA and HEP, but unfortunately, because this is Croatia, because this is still a country where HDZ authorities, and even this story could not stand only to be illogical, irrational or uneconomic. No, this story had to go one step further. And if the story had gone one step further, we found out a few weeks ago during the hotmail affair. Because we found out that that crew that was waving at Agrokor, who was pulling millions out of her pocket for her pocket, wasn't formed for it. The team, the borg group, intended to previously assimilate HEP, was formed for it, but simultaneously appeared, each other, better, faster prey. But now I will leave my word to my colleague Gordan Maras, and he will continue to explain this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89498	Thank you, Comrade Grbin. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89499	Thank you colleagues and colleagues, MPs, all those who follow us today, I think it is clear to all of Croatia that here on the part where we talk about INA and HEP is one round of interests and interests and incompetence and incompetence, because how else to interpret when we talk about the barren PR is that faster press conference of the diameter of Plenkovic 24.11.2016 means it has been a year and 7.8 months. We have made a strategic decision, we return it to the INA, Croatia. I don't know if it might have been Mrs. Sunny's advice to that statement, but it was really in that moment of effect, but I'll see you both in the pits, so nothing happened. He also said that same day, there's no drama, we want a clear plan, we'll buy INA, at any cost, at any cost. Imagine that capable buyer who tells the seller that it's not a problem, as much as they ask, that's how much he'll pay. Croatia has money, it will do everything it can to buy INA, and the MOL only needs to point out how much money it wants. He said, we expect this whole process to last for about a year. It's credible from our diameter, he says something, he commits himself to make, that time period after a year and seven, eight months. Nothing happens. In a year, he said, Prime Minister Plenkovic, we'll buy INA in a year, nothing happens, citizens don't trust Plenkovic, many will wonder why they don't believe him. So how will they believe him? What kind of seriousness is that, ladies and gentlemen, when the people who run this country so easily make promises that they will return INA to Croatian hands, they are willing to pay whatever it takes. It is not a question at all, so there is a diameter of Plenkovic's money, he will do everything to return it to INA, in Croatian hands in a year, and now a year and 7 months. There's nothing going on after that. I must admit that I am a little confused by the government's representative here in the Croatian Parliament, since this is about energy. So I expected Minister Coric to be here in front of the Croatian government, because this is about two energy companies and a minister in charge of energy, he should give us all these answers, so that Croatian citizens can hear what the government is up to, which is why so much has been delayed this year and 7 months have gone by, and this two years to the next election will probably not happen. And in the meantime INA, compared to 2012 for example, has 12 billion kuna revenues, so much for the correct MOL partners in INA investments, about how much Croatia gets from INA and last year they say 18 and a half billion and a billion and 200 kuna net profits, with 5% less revenue from production, or oil refinery. In other words, all the income and profit that was achieved and the increase compared to 2016 occurred from oil imports and sales in the INA network in Croatia. On the other hand, HEP with nearly 8 billion kuna income, a billion and 350 million kuna profits. Now the question is raised, and I believe it is the same when they think here in these late hours, and Mr. Boric and Mr. Bačić, they're wondering why they'd buy me something that has a smaller profit on twice as much income, which means that productivity and what makes the profits are lower in INA, which is why they would sell me that company that can sell to Croatian citizens through investment, through infrastructure now return multiple of the INA, which is why they would sell me that company to buy 50% of the shares of INA? By the way, it is not possible, mathematically or by any means possible, because 50% of the INA stock on the Zagreb stock market today is worth 15 billion kuna. So now let Prime Minister Plenkovic explain to us that he thinks he will get 15 billion kuna for 25 minus one share of HEP, it is not possible, it is a deception, it is simply throwing dust in the eyes of Croatian citizens because it will not happen. But all if it were possible in that way to get the money, why do it? Which is why the company that I think is much more important to Croatian citizens at the moment, sell and privatise to try to recover a company that is currently earning 40% less than it was in 2012. And I will also tell you why, the answer is very simple, because BORG experts advised Prime Minister Plenkovic through former Minister Dalic. People have seen better there can be something profitier, in emails we have seen God pass us this IPO-ic in these three, four months which they have imagined about HEP etc., etc. Because to make IPO HEP, to succeed in getting it I don't know, 5.6 billion kunas as they then imagined, commission 1, 2, 3% is very profitable for these business people who have entered into the very heart of the government and who make decisions that are strategic, not only for the government, but for all Croatian citizens and for all those who want to live in this country and who are thinking about making Croatia better tomorrow. Because of their earnings in Agrokor of 500 million kuna, they probably saw similar figures in this story, 500, 600 million kuna more for consultants and for all those who could earn something, they manage to influence those who Croatian citizens chose to decide on their behalf. And that is what we are warning about and that is why we do not want to participate at all and we want in every way to prevent the government from trading in any way the shares of our energy companies, HEP, INA and all others because we are aware that there are large financial interests of business people who have networked with ministers in Croatia Government and who work for their own interests, not for the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that should be made clear and that is because otherwise one of the lawyers and businessmen in their e-mails would not explain how, I quote: Andreja needs to be conscious, how Martina can do it, how he should be explained that the sale of HEP can only buy INA or raise some money to buy INA, etc., etc. We have to stop it. I'm appealing to you as well. Do not let individuals in business structures, regardless of whether they are related to Martin Dalic, Borislav Skegro, all of this team who has brilliant business ideas for years to help Croatia, and in fact helps themselves, do not let Mr. Bačić do another job that they did. Now Agrokor is behind us, you're aware, and you can probably go back a year, you wouldn't let the Borgs do that, and I'm sure as an honorable man you didn't know that they were making that kind of money, and that in that way they're defacto using the situation that happened in Agrokor, don't let that happen again. Believe me, they're just waiting at a low start. They're waiting for the IPO, the privatisation, the purchase, there's the mouse clicker to send a new e-mail. So on the other hand, what I want to say to all of you, the SDP doesn't trust Prime Minister Plenkovic because no one trusts him. Who's going to trust the prime minister who told you a year and seven months ago? that they'll do, buy INA over the next year? The whole process will be said, over the next year. It's been a year and seven months. Not that it's not a process that's over, but you've chosen advisors, who are likely to finally say what's clear to all of us, you don't have money, you don't have 15 billion, how are you going to buy INA? Strategic partner, here's what was not mentioned at press conference 24. 11, so the day before Christmas, excuse me 12, Mr. Bora will thank you very much for the suggestion, 24.12. day before Christmas, 2016, it wasn't mentioned then, no. No, no, no. There was no mention of any strategic partners. He said Prime Minister Plenkovic will be bought at all costs, as the Hungarians ask, so much we will give. This is not appropriate since there is a minister represented within the economy and trade, he would like to advise the Prime Minister that, in terms of good trade, it is never good to reveal how much you are willing to pay because it would be better to keep certain arguments and to go as well as possible in that process and not act in a way that you can't realize. So since it won't work, I'm saying right away that we're opposed to any privatisation of HEP, IP, selling to a relatively successful company that invests as much as it should invest. Of these billions and 30, sometimes 2 billion kunas have been made in recent years, it has been invested very little and we must admit that we are not quite the happiest yet again more invested in the INA which has been invested much bigger than HEP because INA, or its now weigh MOL owners, do not want to invest in Croatia, want to close the Sisak refinery, it is not talked about, it is not fought against, it is not yelled in HDZ, against it, Prime Minister Plenkovic has no special action, press conferences, threats when he catches Mr Orban on the margins of various gatherings, not talking about closing the Sisak refinery but on the contrary, we watch that thousands and thousands of jobs in Croatia do not stand and how, on the other side, production of oil or derivatives in Croatia, every year, is less and less. And that is something the Croatian government should fight against. And that's something where we don't hear too much from Minister Coric, the Minister of Energy, the one who should worry about it the most, and that's something we've lost 2 years. 2nd year of government where almost nothing has been done. We do things, we do PRs, we do statements, and in practice nothing happens except that people see some non-transparentity and blurry work going on under the auspices of the government every year. The murky work that the people of the Borg team realized in Agrokor, thank God, it was obvious that 15 billion was almost impossible to collect, Mr. Bulj, to buy INA, so they failed to react and work in the INA because if they raised 500 million on Agrokor, they would raise 500 million on the INA and again in a non-pretentious restaurant in the city of Zagreb festival after a decision on the privatisation of HEP and the purchase of INA. Thank God that didn't happen, and we're asking this interpretation that it never happens in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89500	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of the Sun's Head for the presentation of fellow Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you've actually had a hearing since the debate and a lot of genius ideas and numbers that hurt your head and a lot of lies. So to be clear, no one said that HEP was being sold and of course we said that we wanted INA to remain a vertically integrated company and that we wanted to keep jobs and that we wanted to find the best model so that INA would continue to be in Croatian hands, or that INA would continue to develop. I didn't hear your genius ideas, and I didn't know until today I have to admit that this is another cartoon in your CV that you're an energy expert, that's what I'm glad to hear, but then you had to make it clear that you advocated that INA was not in Croatian hands, that INA was sold and that Ina did not need Croatia. Then that would be fair. This way for your information, I'll just remind you what the current phase is, the INA financial advisors have been selected, and they will give in the process advice on how it is best to do so and what is the next step in the process that she announced just over a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89502	I thank my esteemed colleague. I would only ask you fellow Members in the future not to belittle in any way, but to adjust a little expression to this House of Commons. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89503	Thank you very much. 238, you said, and I thank you, you really have uniform criteria and you always respond in a timely manner, so here's a chance to praise you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89504	Thank you, colleague Maras. Would you like to respond to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89505	Thank you very much. And look at Mrs. Glavak, 4.1.2017. Plenkovic, the government's position is unique, with HEP we will buy INA. And now you tell me there's never been a speech. So I know that in the description of your job it was to form, to form an opinion as it wasn't said but very clearly. The government's position is unique, says Prime Minister Plenkovic with HEP. ... /Intruding Brkić: Dear, esteemed colleague Maras, please, just a moment./ [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89506	My colleague, please. Don't get into the word of your colleague Marasa. [[I'm sorry.]] Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89507	According to Mr Plenkovic, the government's position is unique, using HEP we will buy it to the INA, he says 4.1. There were Tonino Picula, Marijana Petir, Dubravka Šica, Maletic and Borzan. And clearly the man told them, they asked him how we'd buy INA and he said the government's position was unique, using HEP we'd buy INA. They're gonna sell HEP, that's what he wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89508	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89509	Thank you very much. No one in the Republic of Croatia has the right to sell HEP, regardless of what Minister Vrdoljak is in your government before making numerous calculations to sell HEP. I'm right now, here... When I heard the government was going to sell, no one had the right to sell HEP, the only owner, and these are citizens with a referendum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where's the right to sell someone HEP without saying "citizens"? Of course, there is also the interest that privatisation is now going to the HEP and the new laws that we recently had here in Parliament, so it still threatens to sell HEP because they are out there, who knows which interest groups and this started to remember the sale of INA from the white nights, Sanader ended up, so it will be with HEP, started Vrdoljak, ended Vrdoljak, started from your government and ended in HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89510	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89511	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you are right, no one can do it without Croatian citizens saying something about it but what is the fact that Mr Plenkovic...... Mr. Bulj that Mr. Plenkovic said not only in the beginning of 2017 but also in 2017 in the 6th of May the whole game and the advisors were hired to assess how much money can be obtained from HEP and the fact is that here is the minister of the former economy that, although not in this government but your colleague from MOST that you opposed it, I remember that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The whole time HEP was in the game and nobody has the right to sell a company that was successful to raise some money and eventually had enough to buy [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, dear colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89512	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Maras, a hot potato called INA MOL, was welcomed by Andrej Plenkovic, neither guilty nor due, you know that very well. The dispute in Geneva, the dispute in Washington, is the dispute of former governments, not the government of Andrej Plenkovic. And the 5 governments before his government were involved and none of them are until the end innocent when it comes to INA MOL or the one where you sat. And the INA problem begins in 2002, you know it very well by the Privatisation Act and not by transparently speaking the most transparent implementation procedure for the privatisation of INA. And you know that anything that goes wrong gets bad, it's hard to end well. We got off to a bad start in 2002 and you know whose government it was then, the government of Ivica Racan, so we can consider all of this a consequence of solving something that went wrong in 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89514	I thank my colleague Bačić for his replica. And my colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89515	My colleague Bacic, as much as the HDZ and the government mention hot potatoes to me, seems like Prime Minister Plenkovic is working at Mc Donald's. Hot potatoes around Agrokor, hot potatoes around education, hot potatoes around INA, hot potatoes around health care, all hot potatoes. Well, you'd better get a job at McDonald's than be president of the government. Better a man to get a job at Mc Donald's than to be the Prime Minister of how many hot potatoes there are. Can't be for all the answer is hot potatoes. ... Well, that's the easiest thing to say, it's a hot potato, and now whatever we do is bad or good, huh, it was a hot potato. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They take 500 million in Agrokor, huh, it was a hot potato. ... Sir, Mr. Bacic, please, the government is here to solve the problems. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder Brkić: A colleague of Bulj, please. My colleague Bulj.]] No government has been deprived of any problems, so why should this one be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89516	I thank my colleague Maras. I'd like to ask you respected colleagues and colleagues, or respected colleagues, not to disturb your colleagues as they speak. A colleague of Šuker, a colleague of Bulj, a colleague of Panenić, a colleague of Bačić. ... Please take your debate clubs somewhere outside and not each other while your colleague speaks. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said a lot of words along with your colleague Bula and distracted the speaker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And please, we're moving on. Is it possible that a representative of the government would like to give an explanation? Here you go. Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr. Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89517	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the conclusions of the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act on the announced renationalisation of the INA and privatisation of 25% of the less than one of the shares of HEP. Oil industries d.d. in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition, has a significant role in oil business in Croatia, as well as in the region in the exploration, production of oil and gas, oil processing and distribution of oil and petroleum products. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore considers that, due to the great importance of the INA, the Croatian economy as a whole, it is necessary to maintain its business in a way that buys from MOL the ownership stake in order for the Republic of Croatia to acquire majority ownership of INA and thereby restore management rights and thus control and control of INA. Since the proposer of this interpretation uses the term renationalisation of the company INA d.d. In this context, the Government considers it necessary to point out that it is not a renationalisation, but rather a buy-in procedure that is common in the process of changing the ownership structure of any company, whether it is a commercial company owned by a state or other natural or legal persons. It is evident that INA’s business is in a continuous decline year after year, and its market position is systematically devastationed. The proposer himself in the interpretation text cites a series of data that speak for it. Total revenues decreased by 37%, the amount of processed oil decreased by around 21%, the target decreased by 60%. All business indicators show a devastating management policy between 2012 and 2015, i.e. precisely in the government's mandate headed by the SDP at the time. This clearly shows the complete absence of any prudent and determined policy and the will of the Government then to take any measures to change the negative indicators through the available mechanisms and then existing trends in INA operations. In other words, the most responsible for the INA's current position is the Government from 2012 to 2015. Another important reason for the change in the ownership structure of the INA is the fact that only one shareholder decides in decision-making procedures, i.e. to ignore the interests of other shareholders and, above all, the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Aware of the importance of INA for oil business in Croatia and of the need to protect strategic national interest in the area of energy stability and stop these negative trends in INA business, this government has made a decision to buy shares from the Hungarian MOL. The government's decision to buy the MOL, the MOL's stake in INA, as I recall, was supported by the public and the SDP, and you respected gentlemen, almost everyone who proposes this interpretation. On 19 January 2017, the Government set up a negotiating advice with Hungary's MOL whose task was to give guidance, take action and activities and propose to the Government the best model for the purchase of INA shares held today by MOL. However, given the fact that one of the objectives of this government is to reduce public debt, which is supported by the government's adoption of a public debt management strategy for 2017-'19. In the year, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made it clear that one of the key elements in selecting the INA stock buyout model is, and that this model does not cause an increase in public debt. The government's ultimate goal is to ensure economic growth and development, i.e. economic stability, and the government recognises that the energy strategy for which INA is crucial, is one of the most important factors in economic stability. In August of last year, on the basis of a proposal for a negotiating council with the Hungarian MOL, the government concluded that the selection of an investment adviser in the transaction of a possible purchase of INA shares owned by MOL and that the procedure was jointly carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. An invitation to tender was sent to the addresses of a total of 22 potential renowned international advisers and 7 offers were received. In April this year, on the basis of an investment advisor selection process, a consortium consisting of Morgan Stanley, Intensa Sao Paulo Group and Privredna banka Zagreb, including due to relevant experience in the analysis of the INA Group's previous operations. The obligation of investment advisers to carry out a deep analysis of the company, assess the value of the INA itself and assist the Government of the Republic of Croatia in finding and selecting potential strategic partners. The position of this government is that INA remains a vertically integrated company with all its components, and in this context they took these activities that I was just talking about. As regards the publication of the decision of the arbitration court and Geneva, I will repeat the government's opinion based on the rules of the Commission on international trade law, that the decision can only be made public in agreement with both parties, and according to procedural orders, all aspects of this arbitration procedure must be kept secret and even after the arbitration procedure has been concluded. In addition, the publication of a decision by this arbitration court could have a negative impact on the arbitration procedure between the Republic of Croatia and MOL before the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes in Washington. The proponent of interpretation in the conclusions proposes to the Croatian Parliament to oppose the privatisation of HEP for the renationalisation of INA. It should be recalled, however, that the government was aware of all those advances that needed to be done in order to go to HEP's initial public offering at all and yet the first thing it did was to choose a consultant to make initial offers. Therefore, the initial public offer of HEP, which was actually launched during the government of Mr Zoran Milanovic, which included some of the signatories of this impelation, should not be a point of opposition for the promoters of this interpretation. If you were then in favour of reducing the share of ownership of the Republic of Croatia in HEP, because one of your arguments, that was, that the prepared actions you've conducted, pointed out the fact that the electricity companies listed on the stock market are doing better than those companies, which are completely state-owned, raise one key question, why are you opposed to that today? Finally, the Government considers that in order to protect national interests, it is necessary to buy the shares of the INA, implement a comprehensive restructuring of that company, and focus business policy on strengthening activities, which will ensure INA's growth and development and return to it that market position which it had back 10 years to which it actually belongs, and the methodology or model of purchase, after deep analysis, will be proposed to the government by the selected investment advisor after the signing of the contract. Therefore, I once again express the government's position in my first sentence, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the conclusions of this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89518	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mr. Dark Horvat, for explaining the government's report. We have several replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89519	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, with the politics of Mr. Bačić and Mr. Plenkovic, hot potatoes, you practice politics, others are guilty. These are two weights of HDZ policy, hot potatoes and others are guilty. So now we've heard that HDZ is full of hot potatoes, and now we hear that it's always someone else's fault. Then why do we have a government? To collect excuses, or to offer solutions. Would you rather explain to us how you will raise 15 billion kuna for the purchase of INA, that would be useful, to tell Croatian citizens here now, how the Croatian government, thinks to raise 15 billion kn, to buy 50% of INAs and how you think foreign advisors to whom you have given 10 million kunas can now advise you, for here, I find the impossible mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89520	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89521	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. First, what concerns us all, and aware of the fact that you are very easy and very boastful of numbers that do not hold or eat water, whether they are part of hot potatoes or something else. We in the government are wondering, where do you even come from, the fact and the view that for repurchaseing an existing MOL portfolio, it takes 15 billion kn. We at this point by selecting investment advisors, we want a clear picture, how much INA is worth, and when we get a clear picture of how much INA is worth, then we will also know the participation of MOL's shares, if there is any desire and intention to put MOL's shares on the market at one point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89522	I thank you for your reply, Minister Horvat. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89523	Thank you very much, Your Honors Minister, I would like to ask you a question, especially where is your colleague, Minister Covic? Because if we're talking about energy companies, I expected him to be, as a resolutely competent minister, could be his secretary of state, who is in charge of energy, and I'm afraid we could put a new request here right now, and that's an interpretation of the minister's work. A minister who, during his term of office, we see that he is being successfully implemented, the closure of Sisko as a refinery, to which he was deafened. So there's not one of his public statements that struggles not to happen. Therefore, and this claim of yours, that it is vertical integration, will ultimately not be far from the truth at all. It'll be vertically integrated. What's left. But here I am, asking you, where is Minister Covic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89524	I would like to thank my colleague Panenic, the answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89525	Thank you, Vice President. Dear parliamentary MPs, well, here I am taking the opportunity to tell Minister Covic about the pre-arranged official route, and when he confirmed his obligations for today and when this point entered into the regulatory agenda, they simply did not allow them to extend or cancel any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89526	I thank you for your response to Minister Horvat, the next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89527	I deeply regret that there is no competent minister, Mr. Coric, I don't know what the reason is, which is why the Prime Minister and the Government did not have the authority or trust, mistrust or must be in charge of extracting larger potatoes as it is elsewhere. But it is a fact that you said in INA and HEP that the national interest should be preserved. The government said it was for the sale of HEP, and the INA did not preserve its national interest. Because of INA, many were supposed to be in prison, from those who were SDP from white nights to Sanader, who sold it to the government. Well, no national interest has been preserved, so what do you keep your national interest in? In INA. Where are the white nights now, who owns it? Because it owns Croatia, where is the money, where is the money from? And do you want to sell HEP or not? The government has announced that you want to. I suggested you'd be the minister, I guess, so I believe you'll give the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89528	Thank you, dear colleague Bulju, for your response, dear Minister Horvat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89529	Thank you, Vice-President, the esteemed parliamentary representative has already been told several times today, and I will also thank my colleague Glavak here today for being timely and perceiving a lack of logic which has been discussed here today, so the financial advisors who have been engaged, selected n public tender, have not been chosen to value the value or shares of HEP, but, after that, we will be able to identify how much of the market share in the absolute value of the shares that are in the MOL portfolio today 2018. What happened from 2002 to today with INA, I think today has been apostrophe and I don't think we should go back into that history but find out what we're able to do right now. to make ownership management rights... [[Upadica Brkić: I thank the ministers for their response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89530	The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, of course these advisers you speak of who were elected in April were not chosen to privatise HEP when the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the privatisation of HEP already has advisers in the form of the Borg group, so we already know that we have documented information about it. But what I'm going to ask you and ask you to answer me as soon as you can with yes or no without philosophy are two questions. First, did MOL ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to agree to publish parts of the arbitration decision when it announced them on the Budapest Stock Exchange? And if the government has given its consent, why did the Government not at the same time ask for such consent to publish an arbitration decision in the Republic of Croatia? The second question, 30 December 2016 in Dnevnik, TV Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic announced the sale of 25% -1 shares of HEP and that this will finance the purchase of INA. Do you agree with the Prime Minister, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89532	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Answer, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89533	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MP, I have no information at this time whether Hungarian MOL has wasted or received any consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and his procedure cannot comment at this time because it is the decision of the MOL. We stick to the rules and regulations if it is stated and the rules state that, without the consent of the other party, the decision in question is not published, I think it's okay if the rules are prescribed and among other things some of us want to follow those rules. As for Prime Minister Plenkovic's announcement that, as one of the possible modes, IPO or HEP will try to buy or acquire the investment potential for the purchase of MOL's portfolio owned by INA, Prime Minister Plenkovic then made it clear that this is one of the possible... With what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89534	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89535	Mr. Minister, it is a pity that you are not the provisions of the 2002 INA Privatisation Act, apparently the gentlemen forgot what they wrote inside, among other things, that at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia will only have 25% of the INA. In 2010, I, as Deputy Prime Minister, put the government on the agenda and annul the point of selling HEP. And that's when it was brought. And the third thing that's true is for those who say things, HDZ hasn't sold any shares to MOL. HDZ sold slightly less than 17% of shares to Croatian citizens, institutional investors, slightly less than 6% of the shares to INA employees and 7% of the shares were given into the Croatian defence fund. So HDZ didn't sell any shares to MOL, that's true. And you can check that out and I'm asking you nicely not to tell the truth. The fact that citizens later and INA employees were selling, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89536	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Answer, Your Honor, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89537	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Your Honor, I agree with everything here today on your part with the fact that the HDZ government has proposed and in its mandate there has been a move towards the implementation of the HEP Privatisation Act, I think that almost everything has been said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89538	I thank the Honorable Minister Horvat for his reply. The next replica of a respected colleague of Sunchana Glavak, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shuker said in part what I actually wanted to remind you of when it all started, and I see that fellow Maras has escaped, too, so he wouldn't have to hear this fact one more time. So the process of INA and the purchase of shares and sales did not begin last and last year, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic was right on Christmas Day 2016 and then together with the coalition partners from MOST and then Minister Dobrović, decided that he would try to return the majority of shares to the hands of the Republic of Croatia, considering extremely important Croatia as an energy independent country and as important for the Republic of Croatia to preserve jobs and invest in the INA which, as we have heard from the Minister in the past years, was insufficient, at least according to all the INA contracts was mandatory and to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89540	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak. Answer, Your Honor, Minister Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89541	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you are quite right, you share the position of the Croatian government, so I would only remind and mention here that this particular government has come to the end of the prepared call it the privatisation of HEP by the government of the SDP led by Mr Zoran Milanovic, so all those activities that this government has been working on since 2012 to 2015 in preparation for the public offer of HEP shares, this government has suspended and is not considering the privatisation of HEP at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89542	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mr Horvat for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89543	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Now here at 8:00 here, I hope that what we are talking about may be more about some collegiate discussions than a real debate that should reach out to primarily our citizens who would listen to maybe the views of different parties here in the Assembly, precisely the problems that are very important to Croatia, not enough, but one of the most important ones. We are talking about the most valuable companies in Croatia, INA and HEP. There's more than one position here, so I'd just like to take a look around. He took away a thought relating to the evaluation of HEP, as such is that of the people who later were part of the Borg group who participated in the evaluation of the official document, which is available to the Ministry of Energy in this case, but it should be said that the client of the work was the current government partner, it was Mr. Vrdoljak while he was minister. We see here and the disagreement over the very statements that were made, primarily the words of Prime Minister Plenkovic, our colleague Glavak she, since she was a spokeswoman corrects the allegations from the media, we see that there seems to be a mistake in the media, that the media is actually saying some words that are probably not as such. You should check it out and then I wonder why it wasn't and urgated to publish lies on the media because for every quote read from the media it wasn't like that. I'd just say to my colleagues, they'll appreciate what you said, which is true, but what's difficult for your party, which is the transfer of rights, the management that Sanader made. I mean, we should actually experience it. This part that MOL managed to buy the shares, that part probably as such could have happened that employees were selling to the MOL that was buying out on the market, but what should be said that management rights were something that made our position more difficult later, we could have equal management rights for both the Croatian Government and the MOL equal partners and probably then talks about investments would not have gone in this direction. I would just like one more correction, so when Prime Minister Plenkovic came out on December 24th with an announcement that he would buy out the INA, he did not consult with Minister Dobrovic at the time, nor with the Most. We did show our later, so we showed our interest in buying it out, but we had an immediate disagreement about the model that was once again brought by the prime minister and his loved ones. But here, let's do some consideration about this initiative. We saw from the cover of the weekly Globus one message that actually screams in some way, which is that INA will never be Croatia again. It's been a year and a half, a little more than that Christmas Eve in 2016, and then the headlines were different. INA will be renationalized, we'll be taken over, but it seems it was just an attempt to get the problem of the arbitration verdict covered up in some way and that we're going to solve the INA issue by renationalizing it. Later the question came to think about how to pay for it, so immediately the possibility of going to sell HEP, so that group that we had a problem now about Agrokor, they had a solution very quickly because they had already participated in the preparation of that solution. At that time, Prime Minister Plenkovic said that he also met the Hungarian government and then statements about what will and how it will be bought, that now after a year and a half we actually have statements here here that we will see when decided by the advisor whether we will buy it. It was then clearly communicated that the Hungarian side was interested in selling. MOL only said it was and remains open to discussing the future of INA, but did not make a statement we will sell. We see that since then, the financial result that the minister explained was a fall, after which the time a married man appeared, when someone who had provided a head like Prime Minister Plenkovic wanted to buy, since then the financial indicators of the INA grew, and now we have a division of dividends. So the company's price is going to rise, it might not be 15 billion anymore, it might be 20 billion now. And it's certainly not one assessment that's relevant, but it's going to be a decision on how much INA will be worth in some future time. It is very valuable to us in Croatia, we believe that it can contribute very much to development, but it seems to me that MOL also knows this and these announcements, wants to achieve the maximum price possible. Afterwards, everything goes according to order, other affairs we do, we continue to search for Hernadi, our judiciary, Interpol outwits whether the warrant is valid, whether it will be delivered, Robert Jezic he continues to form the savings of those 5 million euros he should pay to the Croatian state, the only prime minister, former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, he does not waste time a little bit of health, writes books and we will probably have very quickly his views on how what he gave is not exactly what people saw but always what people see as HDZ finds it different. After a while, it's all actually different than it was back then. But here we go back a little on INA, so since 1964, when the company grew up, when it was part of the INA, it was Petrochemy, Dioki, Dina, all that. It was a company that was important back then in the former Yugoslavia where we see that numerous resistances were being fought between the pro-Yugoslav and pro-Croatian party currents. We may have fooled ourselves that it was political but we can see that very economic interests were also expressed where now when we go back to the past a lot of money from that company through companies based abroad was poured out of state money into private pockets and secured well-being. No wonder after that, INA connects a lot of people back then and in the present. And these documents that have come out show huge malfeasances, investment growth, and one Dina who was a joint investment in INA and Dau Chemical that was supposed to cost 700 million dollars paid for more than 2 billion, never completed, foreign business, mentioned children, some folk heroes, dollars suitcases, which were driven by official cars. They refer to an INA named Flekovic and sons. It is also said, unfortunately, with six bullets in the back or an axe in Stjepan Djurekovic's head, but it is only mentioned but here, if there were no other states, we would never try to solve it. Although INA has also played an important role in creating independence of funding, it is necessary to show thanks for having such a company. The privatisation itself, undisputed in 2002, was made in Racan's government, and the decision goes to privatisation. Slavko Linic then Deputy Prime Minister for Economy and the chairman of the Supervisory Board took part in the creation of this key decision, made 2 laws, the INA Privatisation Act, the HEP Privatisation Act, which is an interesting data. From before privatisation, a series of companies such as Petrochem, which today is struggling to survive, also Dioki, who ended up in bankruptcy through the hands of Robert Jezic. Sanader's government has made it known to everyone in its style, but I'm saying it's just a continuation of the INA policy all along. Where are we today? Today we have an impelation that attacks the unfavourable politics of the HDZ government, not counting on what may have been the day before Prime Minister Plenkovic's government worked, there have been other actions that are linked to the SDP as well. And then these combinations, the SDP attacks HDZ, with them is the HNS that was with the SDP, it seems to me that that closes one circle, just like that, doesn't sound convenient and all that expensive in the spirit, in fact in the time of arbitration, other arbitration where instead of breaking ranks, to really defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia to really substitute all the evidence that tells us in our favor, we seem to be even more at risk of this arbitration than we are before. You wonder why our witnesses did not come to arbitration, why they could not be obtained, why they did not give statements because there was never a clear Croatian policy, a uniform policy that should fight for national interests and condemn any action that violated it. But we had a court practice that contributed most to the loss that, when they said Sanader was practically a free man. That he didn't do what everyone saw with their eyes and what happened. Now we have a situation where two, three months ago, investment advisors have been elected who should buy a share of MOL if MOL wants to, but we will pay that 10 million just to see if the MOL actually wants to. He didn't talk to MOL at all, if it's for sale. We also have expressed interests before... He showed interest in buying, showing up information, and that a certain American company wants to join a strategic partnership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are no longer talking about renationalisation, the term has disappeared and the prime minister himself has already mentioned that there is no more renationalisation than just transfer from the arm of the MOL to someone else who is not again a national Croatian company but is a foreign company. And then we wonder if we will achieve that to protect Croatian interests to get a vertically integrated company that protects the Croatian economy, which is ultimately an integral part and permeates the Croatian economy, or if it will be a situation again like we have in Agrokor that the Croatian company is taken over by the company where again we are worried about what will happen in the future. In order not to help us, a little bit of the European Commission has appeared, which is just pointing the finger at the INA Privatisation Act, and is seeking to bring this law into line with the acquis, to amend Article 10, which we have guaranteed special rights that we can protect, because what is it? If this Minister Coric, who did not show up today, who has more important things in his mandate, but as a matter of INA, could happen that they amend the law, that MOL can, without any question, dispose of its stake in the way it wants. Here in these 15 minutes that we have time as a Club of Representatives of the Most should be manifested. 15 minutes for something other 15 years and more created and created this huge mess. It means 15 minutes to solve something that in 15 years someone contributed to their corrupt or any other actions that today is one of Croatia's key problems. And then, as I said at the beginning, the cover again, now we have the front page of the National, we have the new director of the INA Fashimon who says we want to turn the INA into an ordinary branch of the MOL as soon as possible. As long as we're dealing with prenationalization, they're turning it into their own branch. Therefore, a vertically integrated branch, it is a message sent by MOL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89544	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89545	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So today, we are attending another debate on one interpretation that should answer the government's questions and moves regarding the announced renationalisation of INA and the privatisation of 25% of less than one of HEP's shares. I'm already the title or title of that interpretation clearly shows that it's a missed interpretation, an article, which, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, one-tenth of the MPs can bear and it's been submitted by me, I think in time because if they did today, I'm afraid that they would be able to collect 15 MPs who could sign one such text, but that's what we have here. And they asked us to open up the debate and make the conclusions as proposed. We'll open the debate, we won't accept the conclusions, I can say on behalf of the HDZ Club that they simply don't respond, not to the truth, not to our INA reflections, nor are they drawn up in the way that an interpretation should look serious. And when I hear the opening debate of the promoter in which they say why you want INA back when the demand for fuel goes down, you're slow about it because we want faster, you want to sell HEP for which we've prepared everything, don't do it because we know everything. It just doesn't know what it has to do with what it has to do with it, and really whether a single article like this should even have a serious debate, given that everything we've heard is simply something we can call it, I'm not going to, as one SDP agent today called one law, but this is really in a large part bizarre. Because INA and MOL in this House have been discussed for the past 15 years and there has been no government that hasn't gotten hold of that story, and it all started in 2003, 2002. In 2003, the INA privatisation law, somewhere before the end of the term of office, when it was already seen that SDP was going to privatise it for 500 million dollars, 25 + 1% of shares were sold, and then, of course, there were stories from the government to the government, and when we see what the SDP was just writing in the part of the impelation, what the INA looked like in their mandate, then it was just a story that should end up in some sort of corner or beyond all the limits of normal thinking or behavior. This government in its programme did not say that something in this work would work, but as with Agrokor, we also got caught up in this story because many in history knew something. We simply had to make a move to try to correct the inherited problem of ownership and management of INA as the largest economic energy entity in the Republic of Croatia. The government's decision to buy the co-owner's part of the MOL, which would have acquired majority ownership in INA, which really has a strong and significant impact on the entire Croatian economy and energy stability and security of the Republic of Croatia, was obviously the reason for this impelation. Today, after 17 months, it is not the same to discuss it as maybe 17 months ago because many times have changed both in the assembly and in the government and in political life. However, the fact is that the Prime Minister made a statement for Christmas 2016, namely the decision that the government decided to return INA to its property by buying out the total stake of MOL. This came after the UN International Trade Law Commission arbitration court in Geneva decided that the evidence submitted by Croatia was not sufficient to prove that the contracts concluded in 2009 were the result of corrupt activities. What did all the political parties do the other day? They welcomed such a move, including the SDP, all agreed that it was an important decision and that the decision should be approached in the best and most responsible way possible. The prime minister himself strongly objected to such a decision and said he would make certain legal moves to challenge it. But after a little while of that sentence and decision, when I think the winter break went by, when the MPs returned to the Parliament, they started talking about the SDP wanting an interpretation because the fact is that there was a story about the fact that a part of HEP should be sold in order to buy out MOL shares and of course that's enough reason for the opposition to go with its story. And let's remember, even I remember one actor here, where the question was raised, and the diameter, which is waving, with the finished material, which has left the previous government of Zoran Milanovic in preparation for the entire type of HEP itself. That's the fact that we'd be listening to something else today. Today we have the following facts, 49% MOL, 41% RH, 10% of all others, and of course, that we have one relationship where there has been a dominant decision in favour of one of the shareholders, and that's where each government should and must react. The first decision is also set up for negotiations with MOL at session 119.1.2017. What is very important, when a decision was made on the need to buy out the entire stake that has MOL in INA, then it was said that one of the main elements, by choosing on the INA buy-out model, is that it does not cause an increase in public debt. That it does not cause an increase in public debt. And speaking of public debt, we can again compare ourselves with those who say that this government is no good, that it does nothing, remember some of the times they ruled, and remember some period since 2011-2015 when that public debt, from 69% of GDP, grew to 87 in kunas by almost 80 billion. We spent a lot of money, we used to spend nothing, we didn't solve it, but when we got out of power, we forgot a lot, and today in opposition we know a lot. As for the very content of the interpretation, clearly, I have already said something about it, the SDP in point 4 states, what the INA looked like at the time of their government and what they were doing, in the period 2011-2015. Total income decreased 37%, oil processing 21%, loss accumulated in 2011-2015. 4.8 billion kn and, of course, impelation to you, you tried to do something here, fix it. However, 2016-2017, there was a recovery of the entire system and a net profit of €1.2 billion was made in 2017. I've been reading 800 million kuna dividends these days. Because we'll still agree to split the profit better than lose. Of course, many other facts are cited, as regards the modernization itself, the refinery facilities and the relationship in 2015 compared to 2011 when virtually and last modernized refinery facilities, all after that, it was down to that, seeing what should be done or done simply, we say we go to arbitration and we'll leave it to someone who comes, so we'll see how it ends. But we'll be optimistic. And what we have in the conclusion then, the first conclusion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required within 15 days to notify the Croatian Parliament of the status and implementation process initiated by the European Commission regarding the provisions of the INA Privatisation Act. The government has said that appropriate previous communication with the European Commission will prepare a response by the Republic of Croatia to its reasoned opinion and will provide it in good time to the European Commission services. Then we have another point of conclusion that the Croatian Parliament supports the positive regulations that the Croatian Parliament has adopted. With that we can agree, it is indeed a good, stylish figure, a third point, it is the government's duty without delay to publish a decision by an arbitration court based on Commission rules. The decision was published in the media, we know how it ended, although clearly the government should be clearly fenced. And points 4 and 5 where the Parliament should order something to the government. Looking at all the chronology and what the minister said and after our advice, we think that there is space and time ahead of us, that we can take certain moves in the direction that has been announced, but that the story is not a story that is solved in 6 months. or a year as some would or thought. We've been through a lot of governments so far, I'm saying this is already 6 that has INA-MOL relations in front of it, and I believe that with the seriousness and responsibility of this government that we've shown on many of the problems that have reached us, no matter what anyone's talking about hot potatoes, but the fact that we are and that every problem we're trying to offer is a solution. INA is our common interest I think that these clubs should be common, that attitudes should be harmonised and that it should be tried, because it is too much of a system to approach it easily, especially with such watches or such bizarre interpretations. I say at the level of bizarreness, irresponsibility and without purpose. Once again, in the end, the HDZ Club does not support this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89546	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89547	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's any point in overexplaining something right now. I'll try to be as clear as possible, as short as possible, as concise as possible. The HNS club won't support this interpretation, and it didn't support it, while we were also the hottest opposition in the then government. With this now, given all the events that have been happening, and I agree with my colleague Hub that it's more than a year and a half, I think it's absolutely lost some actuality about the frameworks at hand. Interpletion was for this government, the last government, the governments that had a lot of SDP and HNS, and that's kind of an action in this House, which is legitimate, but there's no need to make a big deal out of this. As far as I think we were clear here with our colleagues while we were in the SDP, i.e., with colleagues in the SDP while we were in the government that IP HEP for money acquisition, for investments, acquisitions, and even corporate hygiene was something that, of course, 25% minus one is something that could be considered and that attitude we are still today. As far as INA's concerned, this is where they said no one was protecting national interests. And I think I'm gonna end up with that, too, just in the end. So in that government, the only one who stopped and got such beatings, was just Ivan Vrdoljak, who stopped to defend national interests in the INA, when we talk about the refinery, we are all for the rescue of the refinery, of course we need to find a solution. But then, as was the case with judgments and arbitration and everything, I think few would stand in trial and defend the Croatian interest in this way, and it was recognised by the workers themselves and the refineries themselves and in the extreme line of the INA itself. So, I'm saying this interpretation is really, I mean for a year and a half, it's been another government, a lot of it's changed now is a changed government, different relationships, but we didn't support it then, so we certainly won't now and the HNS Club will definitely not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89548	Thank you, dear colleague Curai. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Honored counterpart Rechim Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89549	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Guys, I was just counting 10 now we're out, I don't even know 6-7. It shows actually an interest in interpretation. Even by the signatories themselves. The truth and the God of tardiness is a debate, I agree. At least the government responded within a deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. However, what can I say, on behalf of the club, I can say immediately in conclusion that the Club of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, reformists and independent representatives will support the government's statement, i.e. it will not support the proposal for a conclusion from the interpretation. For what? First, I'll try to be brief. Interpletions on the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by SDP representatives, talk about the announced renationalisation. A colleague of the coat of arms knows very well that it is a company of commerce, a stock company, and that it is not about the renationalisation, i.e. nationalisation, but rather about the process of purchase of shares. Therefore, one shareholder purchases shares of another shareholder, which is all in accordance with the Company Act, the usual procedure of applying the party's ownership structures. From the interpretation and data, which the signatories showed, in fact, is taken as a reference year in 2011 if I'm not mistaken, and then we see that INA's income fell through the following year, that, in fact, it has weakened INA's market position on the national and regional market and it was normal for the Government that is now in place to announce a change in the ownership structure of the INA. How it's gonna be eventually, we'll see. But I think the goal is clear, and this is further growth and development and strengthening and restoring the former position of the INA market position and achieving the goals related to the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia. For these very reasons, this club will support the government's statement of impellation. And I'll be free in accordance with Art. 151. The Rules of Procedure shall, in view of the interest of the legislators under this item of the agenda, submit to the interpreters that, in accordance with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, In 151st, withdraw the interpretation until the debate is concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89550	I thank my dear colleague, Rechimir Vardi, we are moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, not present, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89551	Thank you very much. Here is the interpretation before us, and the fact here is that, since a colleague from the SDP, as a promoter, was elected from your list, it would be good to perhaps discuss this initiative, because it is simply so in the police of Croatia, the one chosen by one political option, ultimately represent very different views. It is the essence of Croatian politics. However, I would only briefly say that the fact that for Christmas is that Santa Claus, Andrej Plenkovic, then with Martin Dalic, told the minister publicly that he would go to INA, i.e. by selling 25% of the shares of HEP. I remember then as an agent, immediately responding to that information, even reading, as I said then and standing behind those words, I responded immediately. I reacted for reasons, which I couldn't understand that someone the strongest strategic company, which is HEP, which was supposed to be regional, for me, a regional player, a leader of energy in the whole area, was literally starting to play with that fate, because with the INA, the same fate was, when we remember, here from the beginning of the white night, all the time, a long time and not talking about the HN block in Syria of the joint company INA and the Syrian government since 2011, where it is now... A million dollars was a profit, a month, but here she was, a minister who was also not present, then from the HNS, Vesna Pusic, broke up then there were contracts during the war with Syria and we lost 70 million dollars in monthly profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also remember the process of Ivo Sanader, look at the fact that it was about envelopes, the fact that we were in a second-degree verdict that it was confirmed, the fact that the Constitutional Court killed illegality, the fact that it was inconclusive and the fact that national interests were issued around the INA and the fact that one government fell because of the INA and the consultants and his assistants who of course worked under Joza Petrovic, which is the fact that the government fell because then the president and the HDZ presidency refused to fence themselves from Joza Petrovic. Jozo Petrovic was not only inside HDZ, Petrovic was also in the SDP and similar names and names. Therefore, INA is a strategic interest. We can't play with HEP. I'll read it here now... Here's how I reacted right away. [[You don't understand.]] No one has the right to sell HEP. Only owner, and these are Croatian citizens. Selling HEP has no right but the owner, and that's the people. I believe that any decision on the sale of HEP without the will of most Croatian citizens shown in the referendum was another issue of national interests, which is precisely what the example of the INA teaches where individuals from the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2000 have been handing over to the Hungarian MOL with the help of various consultants, judicial authorities and the Constitutional Court. To this day, no one has been convicted or imprisoned for betraying national interests, but even acting as victims, mocking the people and all those who gave their lives for the freedom of the Republic of Croatia. This was published immediately after, I published this immediately after the urbi et orbi of Andrej Plenkovic during Christmas statement that he will... change shares for INA, HEP sells to buy INA. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, INA is strategic, of course, that INA is the problem of Croatian privatisation, of course when INA is most referred to as European liquids, to enter the European Union to rob the most of the INA, and to the Hungarian MOL. They then worked envelopes, then located, included, transferred Croatian generals. It was similar not only with the INA. ... It's similar to Telecommunications. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to know that telecommunications began to privatise the HDZ as well, and ended the SDPs. He ended the SDPs at the time when the worst time was around Gotovina General in that nightmare happened that the SDP gave the majority package and went into being strangers and we lost control of our Telecommunications. And over HEP, we can't. We can't let him play Wreath. So we're changing the laws here. About Croatian Waters, the law changes it to register buildings that are on hydrocentrals to register over HEP. It's very dangerous, you know. This is the form pushed by colleague Vrdoljak, and it is not ashamed of his clubmate that HEP should be sold. I think HEP should buy companies in the area. As MOL bought INA, why don't we become a regional player? We have conditions. That's the other thing that we... Subsidized energy was also in government when he was a colleague of Vrdoljak i.e. The president of the HNS wind power plant knows that billions of kuna a year we pay more expensive electricity, restores sources, and that money goes to foreigners while microsolares I don't know if a hundred people get physical and legal persons in microsolars. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] All went to mean renewable sources, quotas went to wind-powered foreigners, it's known. That money goes into foreign pockets. I believe that the statement made by Prime Minister Plenkovic on the sale of HEP is at least inconclusive. If there is no basis to think at all about the sale of HEP or was already under the influence of colleagues in the HNS coalition at the time who were in the thick opposition, but here I am personally representing then a majority representative, regardless of which I did not then vote for the budget personally said that I, I have now read that I am against the sale of HEP without referendums, because I believe that HEP can be a regional player and can be the largest producer of electricity and that it can be on this market one of the strongest not only in Croatia, of course, but regionally. That's why this initiative is essentially in place. But here I am sorry there are only three of us, four of us in this House. I'm sorry it's not the Minister of Energy here, although I predicted Mr Horvat that one day he would come to the economy minister here in a number of debates. You can confirm that. His smile on his face says that I've been saying a couple of times that he was, and so has his colleague Maras, saying that his abilities as he demonstrated in the Parliament, but you're not here tonight where he should be to Mr. Minister who's in charge of energy. His apology through you to the parliamentary deputies absolutely means absolutely nothing, because parliament did not choose you for energy, but chose Mr. Coric by not doubting your abilities, and mainly in this section around MOL and... The government's negotiating. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you were quite active, engaged in the Karamark case. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89552	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89553	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj, for your support and for this interpretation, although it does not include this whole period that you have always covered in your discussions since 2000 or before today. It is good to remind yourself of some things, although it is quite common and what you say is usually said in the eye of the observer. It looks like this to some people, it looks like that to others. But it's good that you support something that's logical that unfortunately doesn't support the government. You've well noticed that there's also... from our list here after you said it came out of the assembly, which what we're talking about right now in the campaign would probably support, but after the election he tried to betray the few hundred voters who voted for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89554	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89555	It's really amazing how people can... and I'm waiting and I'd be most happy to pass this referendum on selecting a representative's name and last name, no matter who the promoter is, now someone's going to say this or one or who's been collecting a referendum, but I'm really going to be the happiest man, I'd give all the money in the world when I see only who's against that referendum from the people who are with us here a fellow in the Parliament, no matter who's going to pass the parliamentary representative. But the fact that we too must be an example of how we shouldn't treat HEP and the INA started 25% plus one, so 7% of the shares here, 7 there and finally we lost management rights in one of the most morbid hostile ways we lost to our national company where MOL couldn't be even a tenth of the INE, a much weaker company took over a much stronger company that was of national interest. That's why we can't behave, that's why this interpretation... that we can't act like hep like that INE.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89556	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wish we could have discussed this interpretation earlier, it would have been much better if we had discussed it in early February 2017, unfortunately not. However, there is also part of the responsibility of the then president of Mr Petrov's Parliament, but let's not go back so much to the past, let's look to the future and see what this debate today has revealed. I'll ask you just to confirm something for me, I followed, I listened, but at no point did I hear from the esteemed HDZ colleagues that they were saying against the privatisation of HEP for the renationalization of INE. And that's what it says in point 5. Here's my colleague, Boric, not so he can hear your answer right now, but tell me if I'm wrong or if I'm right enough to realize that none of the colleagues present here from HDZ nor the minister or president of the club, or anything else, has anything against the privatisation of HEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89558	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89559	Your colleague is wrong, HDZ is for the privatisation of HEP that is the fact that their coalition partner represents it, they are now or under the blackmail of 5.6 HNS MPs led by Ivan Vrdoljak. At no point did I notice they didn't say, we're against the sale of HEP. However, the Law on Croatian Waters that we have brought is visible to go in this direction that Ivan Vrdoljak has drawn, for many years trying to push through and this government is for sale of HEP. This is visible in the Law on Croatian Waters where the buildings are on hydrocentrals and lakes where the property is now entered means of HEP that they are essentially preparing for the privatisation of HEP. But no one has the right to privatise it except the people. And it teaches us this example of INE, how we lost a strategic company, and HEP must not let it get lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89560	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Final word on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89561	Thank you very much, Vice President. Many colleagues and colleagues. You see, in this assembly, a political option has sent a clear political decision and desire. That's 2002. The INE Privatisation Act and the HEP Privatisation Act. The HDZ sent a clear political message in 2010 that we are opposed to the privatisation of HEP by sending the Law on the termination of the HEP Privatisation Act. And secondly, if a HEP Privatization Act was passed in this House, what policy option would that dare go to the privatisation of HEP without proposing a HEP privatisation law to this House? Have you seen any sign of the HEP privatisation law? You're not. If we were to use the kind of rhetoric that SDP colleagues use, then I could ask, what about the money, what about the decision to monetize the highway? So someone made a political decision to monetize the highways, a counselor was taken, picked up several million kunas and nothing. So in 2010, HDZ sent a political message regarding HEP. If he wants something else he will make a law, he will send it to this High House, as this right-hand side of the assembly in 2002 fought hard against the Law on Privatisation of INE and the Law on Privatisation of HEP, so probably now the left-hand side that someone is proposing a law on the privatisation of HEP will be against or for that. So these are the facts. Because if something was brought in to make something happen in this House of Commons, then the logical thing is that if someone tries to do it another time, they have to pass the law. It's facts and we can't escape from those facts. As the fact that the Privatisation Act INE today states that at the moment of entry into the European Union, the Croatian state will have 25% plus one share and that if it wants to sell those 25% plus one share it will have to pass a special law that will have to be adopted in this House of Commons. It is written in the INE Privatisation Act, which neither the HDZ Government nor after the SDP Government, and the SDP Government had to change it because in its mandate we formally entered the European Union. As the European Commission has asked us to amend that provision of that article, which speaks 25% plus one share, because European legislation does not know the gold share. So, colleagues and colleagues, that's all the facts. And if we want to manage this country, then first we have to respect the facts and the laws, if we don't like the laws, then we have to propose a change in this House. The president suggested something, something like an idea. And that was supposed to happen later, if it goes into it, it's going to be operationalized, but not without this High House. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, one thing is the monetization of highways, another thing when we talk about INA, I think it's far the slowest story of Syria. HM Bok, which opened in March 2008, has been since 2011. INAs started bringing $70 million a month clean or at an annual level of 840 million. It is a joint firm of the Ministry of Mining, Syria and INA and on that HM block that company has a concession until 2031. Whoever gave someone the right to give it up easily because of some kind of blockade of Syria, because of those conflicts, etc., to the HN block. I wonder if Canada Petrolov, which is about 30 km away from the HM block, has a well that is several times larger than the HM side, gave up those wells, in this way as the Republic of Croatia did. Look, colleagues and colleagues, this has not been discussed, I don't even know if there are decisions and what the government's decision is. I think that 840 million dollars a month, is a topic far more important to debate than what's like this... There's nothing written in the interpretation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how much of this interpretation is life and serious is the best way to tell how many of us are in this assembly tonight. And by those who suggest, and I guess four of us is enough to defend such a bad interpretation, and that's why I think we're sending one bad, one wrong message. I'd just say, by the 2003 Privatisation Share Contract. The MOL is given the Director's office and place of director of the procurement. What those two places in the administration mean, I'd better not tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89562	Thank you, dear colleague Schuker, for this final word on behalf of the HDZ Club, we have a final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89563	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, we heard a lot today in the debate, but little about what we wrote in the conclusions and why the clubs of representatives and MPs and the Croatian Government would not accept it. In conclusion, there is nothing written that should be rejected in any way and direct anyone to the qualifications that we have heard here from representatives clubs, especially HDZ and HNS, which make up the ruling coalition, because the conclusions are very simple. The first conclusion is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be obliged to notify the Croatian Parliament within 15 days of the status and course of the implementation procedure, which the European Commission has launched in connection with the provisions of the INA privatisation law. What is so controversial now that we do not get that information from the Government, which is why it would not inform the Croatian Parliament. The second conclusion is that the Croatian Parliament supports the legal solutions of the article. Ten. The INA privatisation law, which ensures the protection of the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, the security of the Republic of Croatia, and tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to represent the need to maintain such solutions in the process before the European Commission and the EU court. That is where we agree, I hope that we agree, here, that the tired HDZ representatives do not gesture, but I believe that you agree with the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament which protects the Croatian national interest. What's the problem with that? That's what we're talking about here. The third conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without delay, is obliged to publish a decision of the arbitration court established under the rules of the UN Commission for International Trade Law in Genoa between the Republic of Croatia and the MOL Group and is obliged to notify the Croatian Assembly within 15 days of the subsequent steps to be taken in relation to that decision. And that would be the obligation of every responsible government to report to the Croatian public on the details of the arbitration and what they will do next. What's the problem? Which is why the HDZ and HNS colleagues do not accept it. Fourthly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to notify the Croatian Assembly within 20 days of the analysis of the costs and benefits of the renationalisation of INA, and within the same time, it is obliged to produce a strategy for the management of the development of INA in the event of the purchase of INA and MOL shares. So we're looking for data, in which way, cost analysis, how much will it be if INA is renationalized, and what are the government's management and development plans for INA in the event of this rationalisation. What's the big deal? We didn't hear anything about that. All logical conclusions that should be accepted by any reasonable, not Croatian politician, but by a reasonable man who lives in the Republic of Croatia, who cares about the interests of Croatian citizens. The fifth conclusion, the Croatian Parliament opposes the privatisation of HEP in order to renationalise INA and is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop other funding models for the possible purchase of INA shares from MOL. And that's where the key is, which is why the HDZ refuses this interpretation. These first four are no one's most controversial conclusions, which practically speak what every citizen should know and what all of ours should say, I would say the MPs should advocate, but 5 no, 5 speaks of HEP and in that bush lies a rabbit. The HDZ does not want to accept this interpolation because the HDZ's intention is to sell and privatise HEP. Because otherwise, if that were not the case, we would support this interpretation with two hands, probably, there would be no problem with unanimously bringing this interpretation as one of the few documents in the Croatian Parliament. The first four logical conclusions, but the fifth essential one that distinguishes in this case from the irresponsible ones and those who protect Croatian national interests, from those who are able to advocate the solutions of the "Borg group", the group that was gathered around Martina Dalic and Borislav Škegra and who has done a lot of bad things in the past year, which is why everything we have followed knows all Croatian citizens what has happened. So I ask you colleagues and colleagues, to reconsider, do not reach for the light political disqualifications and cheap excuses as some colleagues before me have said in the debate, as counterpart Boris or colleague Horvat, who, as my colleague Bulj said, really brought new power and new wind in the back of the Croatian government, after the welcome departure of Ms. Martina Dalic from that Croatian government, we hope that some new winds will blow because what happened around Agrokor, hotmail, non-transparentity and all that our citizens saw simply had to be sanctioned. And I believe that fellow Horvat will never be tempted to deal with his close friends in this way with the state's problem. But I'd like to hear from the government's representatives here, that fifth point is crucial. So for whatever reason, is the Croatian government's intensity really privatisation and sale of HEP? When we talk about 15 billion, we don't need to be particularly mathematically subdued to multiply the number of shares that MOL has with a price that is currently on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and then you get the number I said. It can, of course, be more or less dependent on the strategy that MOL thinks about practicing business in the Republic of Croatia, but there will not go much below this figure and this amount that I mentioned because they want to earn the same. When you see how much they have invested, they will not sell for less than they have invested and bought and paid for those shares as much as Mr Plenkovic or Horvat hoped to do. So please, once again for the sake of Croatian citizens to say that you oppose the privatisation of HEP, the Croatian government. To tell us of the occasion, probably as serious people, so you probably estimated how much, so Prime Minister Plenkovic announced the purchase of INE a year and seven months ago. Well, I guess by now, at least he knows exactly how much money it takes to buy it. I guess he knows the frame. Let these make more calculations, so I believe as Mr. Plenkovic, as a serious man to know what he's talking about. On the basis of which he stated that he would buy and take over and renationalize the INU, and to tell us what money it was and how you would get that money and how and within what time you would realize it. And to think about it again, here may be Mr. Horvat, because it is bound by the government's conclusion, but by tomorrow, I call on my colleague Bačić to call on the club in the morning to take another discussion and look at the conclusions that are clear as the mountain stream, pure, crystall and where there are no misunderstandings that we should agree on. And if they refuse to sell the shares of HEP and privatise HEP, there will be absolutely no problem. They will agree and we will probably have the agreement that Croatian citizens expect from us. Because they expect the Croatian Parliament to protect the national interest, to say and send a very clear message to the citizens that the privatisations of HEP will not be, and the renationalisation of INE, OK, but give it in principle, tell us where you get 10 to 15 billion kuna, how you will get them without increasing the debt, that Croatia is not in charge of doing so. And I agree here with my colleague Shucker and all of you, that it's not the same situation in the INI today as it was 5 years ago 10 or 15 or 20. And to consider whether it is a wise move to borrow Croatia, its citizens to enter into something that may not be too logical at this time. There is not too much logic, but rather I would be inclined by the Croatian government to show responsibility and press the INU to invest in what it has committed, which is refineries in Sisak and Rijeka, in a way that can squeeze them into what Mr Horvat as a kind of energy source knows, which is to increase the fees for the exploitation of our hydrocarbons. Not that we allow these prices to be lower in Croatia, but rather than that they pay the MOL fee in Hungary for example. There is a way for the serious government to deal with this and to force the investor who has made certain commitments and has not made them, but instead to shut down production, to shut down jobs, to reduce the production of carbohydrates and, basically, to the contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. That is what I would like Prime Minister Plenkovic to discuss with Prime Minister Orban on the sidelines of the European People's Party's Meetings, not that Prime Minister Orban gives us lessons and acts as though he is the boss in the Republic of Croatia. And for that, the Croatian government should fight and show that it protects its interest. And as far as HEP's concerned, there's a very clear matter. Privatization no, but investments yes. Staffing on the principle of HNS and I can say it here that it is one of absolutes, absolutely never happened again and will not repeat the coalition of SDP and HNS again and on that side I know that it is not easy for you, but it should not work in the HEP as well in the energy system. There are people there who have almost subscribed to members of the administration of certain companies and are the only ones who think about it. So Vrdoljak thinks more about the coalition agreement on whether Kovacevic will stay in Janaf than anything else. He cares about education and curricula, etc. Well, we all know that. These are stories for small children and for Mrs. Divjak who, in that way, probably dragged her into the whole story, and as soon as she agreed, she said that she had entered the story and then she started talking about where someone would be a member of the administration in a company. Get away from it, get away from it and such coalition agreements and trust me, Croatian citizens will be better off. It will be better, although the Most could not resist it during this short period while these people remained, and the Bridge was in power, nor did their Minister Panenic simply manage to stop those boys who dug in there and not simply give up from those places. And therefore once again, I call on all MPs who, unfortunately, are now only a few in the Croatian Parliament, but tomorrow at the vote, it will be enough for them to accept these conclusions that are clear to all and who protect national interests and who are in the interest of Croatian citizens and Croatian states. And don't ever again colleagues from HDZ, especially you, Mr. Boric, in this way demeaning the very clear conclusions that we have written, very clear and that are clear to everyone but you. Perhaps if you had read them more carefully, you might have, but probably as I would have said you were in charge of having a routine debate on behalf of the club which the Priory does not accept anything the opposition suggests. That's not good. This is not good, and I think we should give up on it, Mr. Boric, because together in these situations, the Croatian Parliament should act unitedly. Thank you very much, and I hope you change your attitude by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89564	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89565	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, first of all, is my regret that he is not the Minister of Energy here. Obviously, here in the government the advantage has a fellow minister who is not in charge of energy, but was quite active in the case of INA Mol, so he knows very much about the situation in the case of both consultants and Mr Petrovic in this case is quite experienced, and therefore he is relevant for the case. The fact is, in the fifth conclusion of this interpretation, there's no mention of selling INA, an apology to HEP. This is evident from the INA experience that HEP is strategic. I personally acted immediately when I saw this Christmas paper urinates the " Santa Claus" Plenkovic when he said that he would buy INA, sell 25% of HEP, I saw that it was a hoax directed by your coalition partner Vrdoljak HNS who would continue with HDZ and they were forced to privatize. That article is really controversial with that fifth interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89566	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89567	It's clear to everyone, and you've recognized it too, to probably accept the interpretation that it's not there and that in 2016, Mr. Plenkovic, after a good codler, kept his press in the government and promised something that would never happen, so we all know that. We all know why people don't trust Mr. Plenkovic. He said we'd buy INA. Here's a bet here with all of you that's never gonna happen. He won't, because he just doesn't have that money. There is no Croatian money to buy back, and even if it had that money, the question is whether it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia given the situation in which the INA is now. You would rather use the elements and mechanisms you have to force MOL to carry out your obligations than to deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89568	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89569	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, unfortunately, I couldn't be here for this whole debate. I had to get ready. Tomorrow morning we have an explanation for the amendment. Unfortunately, colleagues from HDZ decided to close the archives. So we're going to have this on the agenda tomorrow, and the archives might be able to find out something about the situation in the INA, about the war of these mob groups inside the INA, meaning the Ujeba-Mafia. But here's a colleague from HDZ who doesn't want the truth about what happened in the former Yugoslavia, and they also don't want the truth about Agrokor, and they don't want the truth about INA. So we all know what the intention was for more colleagues of Vrdoljak and HNS, and it's obviously the same intent of selling HEP now, and the question is what you said yourself will be with Ina. One government fell because of INE, however, it seems that we didn't remember anything or that they didn't come to their senses about it, we have a man who practically advocated MOL now in the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89570	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Answer, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89571	Thank you very much. I do not see any activities of the Croatian Government around the INE except for the involvement of consultants who will take tens of millions. It's the only engagement we've had for a year and a half. And now they're still telling us here's fellow Horvat here in front of the government, that it's great, that they're doing analysis, that they're, that it's the only thing the government has done. And then again, the politics of others are guilty, I said here's my colleague Bacic had a "hot potato" policy, and fellow Horvat "others are guilty". They're linking it to the highway monetization. Like if you had consultants, and why shouldn't we? That's their logic. The difference, for example, is that your consultants took 500 miles around Agrokor. That's a small difference to begin with, which you were associated with your Deputy Prime Minister, with the prime minister and many other ministers. That's also a small difference, unlike those around the monetization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89572	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89573	Comrade Maras, while your political option was in power in 2002, she passed two laws. One is still in force, and for the other, HDZ sent a political message in 2010 we are against the privatisation of HEP. I then sent a proposal as Deputy Prime Minister and this House adopted the repeal of the HEP Privatisation Act. And what I was saying on behalf of the club in conclusion, and again, I want to repeat, there's no way if someone decides to privatise HEP that they'll do it without some new law. Because he just can't do it. I, as far as I know, I don't know if you heard anything, any honors, no one got a warrant to do a law on the privatisation of HEP. So if it didn't start making a law on the privatisation of HEP, then how can you say that someone is thinking of privatizing HEP? Or do you really think that someone would politically dare privatise HEP without a special law that would be discussed in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89574	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89575	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I have felt honesty in your voice and I am giving you this full support in the fight against Prime Minister Plenkovic. I'll back you up, fight you at the Advocacy Club, I don't know if you're going to the HDZ Presidency? Fight Prime Minister Plenkovic not to privatise HEP. I support this bianco. If necessary, I will give you support in the current hour when the prime minister arrives and say that I support my colleague Shuker against the stance of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who said he would privatise HEP several times. Well done, you showed your spine, you don't want to listen to Prime Minister Plenkovic. He wants to privatize it, you don't want to, and here we are on the same side. Well done, Ivan. Well done, Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89576	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Please don't engage your colleagues in the debate. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I have listened very carefully to you all afternoon, or these two hours of discussion. Well, now I have to tell me in the end, there's a lot that's not clear in relation to what it says in the interpretation itself. So I assume you're in favour of renationalizing INE, although your government, when you were in power in 2002, passed the Privatisation Act and sold 25% plus one share to MOL. As far as HEP is concerned, I have little confidence in your efforts against the public offering 25% plus one share of HEP sales, when your political option on two occasions as it was in power in Croatia, in 2002 passed the Law on the privatisation of HEP, which the HDZ in 2010 abolished also the second time when you were a member of the Government when HEP was working on a restructuring plan and... this procedure for HEP. I don't get it, so please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89578	I thank my colleague Bačić. Come in, mate Maras. Come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89579	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I can tell you first, regardless of certain views, I don't think Ine's renationalization is going to happen. Here's what I can tell you right now, before I say it a little bit, and I don't mean it especially from this position and after a year and seven months, which nothing happened, I think the situation is getting harder and harder every day and it's not going to happen, and I'm not sure at this point that it's even real and that it can come to the agenda at all, and I'm even here ready to bet that it won't happen. Here's what I can say. As for HEP, whether they were working on a document like this has never come to the government, nor have we taken a political stance on the matter. Whether they were doing something, whether your trusted coalition partner ordered something I don't know, but I can tell you that it was never in the government and that conclusion was never made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89580	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues, as announced this morning, we will continue our work at 9:30 in the morning. We will begin with a statement on the amendments to the Final Bill on Archive materials and archives. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The seat was interrupted at 21.18 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-28-0.u89581	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act on the government's announced renationalisation of INA and privatisation of 25% of the less than one HEP share. Carriers: 19 representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. The HDZ and CNS representatives' clubs proposed the following conclusion. Interpletion on the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia is rejected for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia related to the announced renationalisation of INA and privatisation of 25% of less than one of the shares of HEP. I'm voting the proposed conclusion, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for and 20 against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
