ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66054	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to discuss malfeasances in a single credit union. I can do it now, I'm ready, so there's no need for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66055	I'm going to ask you to go after the vote with the breaks, there's no reason, there's nothing urgent, so I'd like to do the vote, we don't have much after that to go with the breaks. You can report them now and then we'll go after that. Here you go, buddy Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66056	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute stand-off after the vote to talk about the problem of building elevators in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66057	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66058	Thank you. I'm looking for a break. The theme is the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66059	Okay. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66060	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the crisis in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66061	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we have four requests for a break. I will only, therefore, inform you that we have placed the agenda and the point of selecting the president and members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. The proposer is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and we would discuss this point tomorrow as the eighth point. On Friday, they would vote then as at 12:00 a.m. as is the custom. Today, after a break and a debate, we will begin with the Final Proposal for the Gas Market Act. It's 9.56, we'll be back to work at 10.10 hours. Is there anyone else who might be looking for a break? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66063	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66064	Okay. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66065	Mr. President and I are looking for a break because of the current political situation to sublime all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66066	Well, then we'll continue at 10.10. Thank you all. It's 9:00.55.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66067	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] The first to report after the break, Mr. Nikola Grmoy of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66068	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I think all clubs got this memo from the club mail that I'm going to bring here to the Croatian public right now. This is about malfeasance in a credit union in Split. In mid-2015, the Office of Organized Crime of the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration conducted a criminal investigation against Mr Hadzibulić over the real-estate fraud of several citizens from the wider Split area and the investigation included members of the Management Board and chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bra-ma Credit Union Leonardo Vedran and Miroslav Madunic of Split on suspicions of co-operation with Hadzibulic and malversion in the approval of credit and all those responsible credit union persons at the end of 2015. These events only launched processes that revealed that the Brah credit union was operating as a pyramidal fraud and the liquidation process was launched in March 2016. At that time, an active deputy of the municipal state attorney in Split, working on the case, ordered the CNB as an institution that oversees the business of the credit union to carry out direct supervision of the business of the credit union. The minutes on the published direct supervision of business on 30.9.2015 were sent to the Municipal State Attorney's Office Split 20.1.2016. In that minutes, on page 31, all violations of the legal and sublegal acts by the former administration were numbered and found on the observed date of 30.9.2015, the credit union showed a profit of HRK 39,642 instead of a real loss of €28 million 546 thousand and €551 in other words, as a result of the falsification of financial reports. What people are asking in their letter as an inquiry, for which reasons the City State Attorney's Office of Split did nothing compared to those responsible after receiving that report, given the level of sustained loss, which is why the subject was immediately not forwarded to a higher instance, which would be the reason that the case is being conducted for almost two years by a deputy who, due to serious health problems, was in multiple long-term pains, so the subject was only assigned to another deputy who had to re-acquaint himself with the subject and who could be there, so they conclude in the letter other than the intention of delay. Some of the damaged savings have already filed criminal charges against the former leadership of the credit union at the end of 2016 and have demanded a blockade of the property of the responsible persons, and the new chairman of the Supervisory Board in April 2017, however, all of those addressed have gained the impression that the subject is being obstructed. The damages were found out from well-informed sources that the case by the County State Attorney's Office was led by Deputy Niksha Wagner and sent a request to the chief state attorney to oversee the case as an exception to Deputy Wagner for his alleged conflict of interest in connection with Mr Pav Jukic, who was represented as a member of the credit union supervisory board. And what is interesting, this Mr. Pavo Jukic, who is a HDZ member, was in the period from 24.8.2008 to 28.7.2011 despite the fact that he was then a high-ranking official of the Ministry of Finance contrary to Article 33. The Law on civil servants and tenants was a member of the Supervisory Board of Credit Union, which was confirmed only by the Ministry of Finance Tax Administration by letter dated 9.2.2018. During the observed period, illegal business occurred, i.e. the reshaping of the Bra-ma credit union in Bra-ma credit union in which 18 persons connected with the suspects now performed a fictitious recapitalisation of the credit union, including Mr. Jukic's daughter, Nikolina Jukic, now Brzica, then a credit union employee, now also an employee of the Ministry of Finance. It is interesting not only to mention Mr Jukic, who is an employee of the Ministry of Finance and daughter, works at the Ministry of Finance, but also women in FINA, and son also in the state service in Customs. What might be interesting here is that I do not have much time to stress that the credit union has been illegally transformed... /The speakers speak at the same time./... did not operate in accordance with the law on credit unions and that the monitoring of the reports delivered to the CNB is necessary. And there's also a link between the CNB and the leaders of the credit union. [[Mr. Grmoya.]] and it will soon be published to the public. [[Mr. Grmoya.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66069	It would be nice if you could at least call me when I tell you the time is up and it's been a long time. Mr. Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we often get caught up in thinking how it is possible that we are on all the scales mostly on the European beginning and why this never changes. Retired Želimir Manenica invited me to a meeting and introduced me to a project he has been pushing for a long time. It is a project that would be financed in the 80% amount from the EU, it would open up around 2,000 jobs in a construction operation, and improve the quality of life of about 700,000 of our citizens. Sounds perfect. In the realization of the project or at least the works of the project, there are no obstacles other than those in the heads and bureaucracy. I've been warning problems for 10 months and I won't stop. It's about installing elevators in buildings with more than 4 floors, so 5 plus 3 that don't have an elevator, which has a large number of older people living in because they're impossible to climb on the fourth, fifth, 3 floors, almost getting out of their homes, and it's also difficult to design any action of non-institutional assistance and care. How it works on the quality of life, I don't even have to stress. There is a project to install 8500 elevators. The EU can finance it in the operational programme between 2014 and 2020, provided that Croatia wants it to. No one's gonna do it for us. By the end of June of this year Croatia must rebalance the operational programme in which we would include this project in the list of potential projects and if it does not, there is nothing we can do about it for the next 4 years. Regional Development Minister and European funds Gabriela Žalac has long been familiar with this project and the bureaucratic problems that follow it but until today we have not seen any concrete moves other than the promise. I repeat, if Croatia does not request a rebalancing of the operational programme by the end of June this year, this commendable project carried by pensioners of enthusiasts will fail and the state is holding it back by its incomprehension. Since December 2012, European funds have no longer co-financed the homes of pensioners because the EU has concluded that people are more comfortable living in their homes. But in order to enable them, we need to invest money in projects like these, to enable everyone to live a decent life and the highest possible quality of life. The European Commission supports this project, which it rated quality, because it improves mobility not only of older people but also of disabled people whose needs are often only declared. It also confirmed the meeting held at the European House on 31 January this year with the EU's prominent experts who have confirmed everything I am saying. Realisation of this project would dramatically increase the mobility of special groups of our citizens and I do not understand that there is not enough hearing in the ministry for this project. I therefore call on the Ministry for an emergency action once again. The opening of a new niche and the rebalancing of an operational programme where, in particular, point 8, point 9, the amount should be increased from 82m euros reserved but not used to 600m euros. This brings us to a position to spend around 500 million euros more than 10 billion and 700 million euros because as things stand, it is more than certain that we will not make projects or programmes for more than 3.2 billion euros, and that is a real shame and for that someone should be responsible. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I invite everyone from the HDZ and all other parties to put additional pressure on the ministry along with me, please and Mr Mladen Karlic, who is not here to invite his fellow citizen to coffee and explain to her that this is a commendable project and that, ultimately, it brings a comprehensive benefit to the economy of the Republic of Croatia and to citizens especially of this vulnerable group, old and disabled but also mothers with small children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66071	Thank you for your accuracy, Mr. Hrelja. Next is Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66072	Dear colleagues, here's Balzac's writer 200 years ago, French, has two kinds of truths, the one we hear every day and the one that's hidden. And then he hides the real causes, the consequences and the causes of the consequences. ... Here, is that enough to talk about in Croatia, what's going to happen to the pension system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the youngest pensioner population in Europe, now my former man who spoke before, Mr. Hrelja, he represents the pensioners, four years younger than me. It's just one fact, the youngest population,...... Yeah, yeah, that's right. [[The Hrelja raider, he doesn't understand.]] You've got four people out there working, one's retired. Four, five to one relationship, and there's one, one, one in retirement. Who's going to pay for that second pillar, what's going to happen to that pension? Where did the money go? One tells me I've been working for 35 years, where's the money? Why don't we ask the key questions? Here's an answer, this is the South Bank trying to set up a real estate account for us, the South Bank. And in Serbia, there are $10 billion left from the former system that Milosevic took in the '90s. years and after the war. Where's the money? That's why Marko Milosevic, son of Mr Milosevic, has the deceased in South Africa a 40,000 square-square farm, and it didn't go bad for these, some of our former staff, presidents, who have millions of dollars in bank accounts out there. Not bad for them either, one president, e.g. His daughter, he's got about 10 million euros out there. How she got it in a party society, where everyone was supposed to be equal. We paid for 30 million reconstructions. What could happen to that money, for the damage we didn't do, that it went to the pension fund. Here, we're talking people going out, says so, it's good out there, etc. Is it that good out there? What do the media tell people? I've lived outside for 30 years. You have to come to work at a certain time. And the minimum minimum for some outside, we line up in Canada $11.5 an hour, and the average house in Vancouver costs between $1.5 million and $2 million. You have real estate taxes, like, an average house in Ontario in the state, if the average house is $5,000 a year's real estate, it's a real estate tax, what is it? In 30 years, it's more than $150,000. You're two street wages. Rente, rents in Ireland go to Ireland some. Well, rents in Ireland are 76% higher than in Croatia. What else is going on? They're talking to people about health care. There's no free health care. In the province of Canada, you pay some provinces, $70, $80 a month for health care, and some have 16% higher GDP. And it's just these smoke addictions. When you go out, you'll have to requalified. If you go to Sweden, you have to study 6.7 months, you have a Swedish course and that's one, that's the starting point if you're going to do anything. By that, why are we where we are? Here, these are key issues hidden from the Croatian public. Where's the money by the '90s?? Where did that money go? And why do we have people working for the church today? Why employers pay, say outside, it's a positive thing, if you're doing a double shift, first shift is pay and a half. Second... is a double salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not here, why is it so, the speech is simple, because you were building a financial system, Milka Planec Malada and Ante Marković and others... And that's what we inherited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And until that money comes back, while we don't have the basis for entertainment and economics, which is justice, the origin of property, etc. We're not going to create a functional state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66073	Thank you very much. You haven't even used it all the time, so thank you. Third, Mr. Bunjac in front of the Living Wall and the Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66074	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. For Christmas 2016, Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to sell 25% of HEP shares and buy half of INA. It's been 14 months, not a single step in that direction. In the same way, last year's 6.4th diameter Plenkovic initiated the adoption of Lex Agrokor. It's been more than 10 months since the law was passed and we only have 51 days left until it expires. The question is, what happened in that period, so-called The transitional period during which a solution was to be found for the largest and most important Croatian company. According to all the reports, Agrokor has faked the balance sheets, deceived numerous Croatian citizens, businessmen, suppliers, and in the last 10 months, his business has not improved, so there is no improvement, jobs are not saved permanently, but only temporarily. Stock prices have submerged to catastrophic low levels, so they've lost about 95% of the value, so let's say, today, one of the Jamnica shares, compared to the previous 165000, is worth only 5 more. For this reason, it is justified to ask a question, which was at all the point of bringing Lex Agrokor. Why not let everything be done according to bankruptcy law, just as all other problems that companies had indifference. Obviously, this was a temporary solution, this was about buying time, all with a view to achieving a political and not a market deal, i.e. in order to achieve the government's maintenance, in the short term, it is clear that the settlement if it is made, that it will be brought against the will of the creditors and that it will ultimately cause a lawsuit which will have to bear the costs of Croatian taxpayers because of HDZ's policy. At this point, it is predicted that these costs will be at least 5 billion kuna. There is a clear indication that the takeover of Agrokor was designed even before writing the law itself, which as we recall was written in just 3 days, which is precisely an amazing speed, unmarked in the Croatian legal bang. And we have the right to suspect that, in fact, Mr Ramljak himself took part in writing this law so that he and the stakeholders associated with him who are directly connected, therefore, with the members of the Government, including the diameter itself, would make financial profits. I remind you that under the signed roll-up of Commissioner Ramljak's loan, it must not be replaced, because at the same time, the entire loan comes for payment. I remind you, that for the main consulting company, the selected company AlixPartners, who was the same day after receiving the job, signed contracts with the consultant company Texo owned by Ante Ramljak, who had never been involved in the consulting business, and at least of them realised the fees that are suitable for New York, not Croatia. It's a classic example of corruption. I repeat corruption that in any normal court in the world would be easy to prove except, of course, in Croatia. Texo's former company Ante Ramljak has earned 10 million kunas to date. The advisors were paid more than 200 million kunas or the budget of two Croatian parliaments in addition to the 40,000 employees Agrokor has, so they needed 200 million and more to be paid to any alleged consultants, and the vulture funds earned 70 million euros in one single day on the first day after signing the roll-up loan. So lex Agrokor wasn't meant to save the company but to hand it over to someone. So, the goal was to take over Agrokor, and the executioner of that transaction was the HDZ party. It is clear that Agrokor will no longer be a Croatian company after the expiry of the Lex Agrokor, and we clearly see that HDZ did not give up after 28 years on the wild privatisation and corrupt model by which it entered the annals of world history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66075	Thank you, too. The fourth is Mr. Bacic in front of HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club so that for the hundredth time I would have guessed here in this House and for this speaker that the Law on Extraordinary Management in Commercial Companies of Systemically Meaning for the Republic of Croatia is impeccable and the best intervention in the economy of any government is done so far. And behind that we are standing and rejecting all these insinuations that a colleague of Bunjac had mentioned earlier in his presentation when he spoke of the disputed adoption of the Law on Extraordinary Administration by proposing on behalf of the Living Wall that the company should have been released in accordance with the bankruptcy law into bankruptcy. During the adoption of the law itself and after that, we have repeated countless times that bankruptcy in 70 companies directly linked to Agrokora on the one hand would mean financial breakdown in Croatia, given the importance of companies in the Agrokora system to the Croatian economy, so that, as well as the forecasts of international financial institutions, the bankruptcy of Agrokor, the opening of bankruptcy, and, at the same time, taking into account the capacities of the Croatian judiciary would lead to significant congestion in economic activities in Croatia, and then I say, according to the estimates of international financial institutions, this would certainly lead to a slowdown of GDP growth on the one hand, and on the other hand would have a significant impact on the tourist season. As a result, the Emergency Administration Act allowed GDP to grow again, made it possible for the record tourist season, allowed the employees of Agrokor to continue to receive salaries, and if they were to go bankrupt, it would significantly burden their fees on the state budget, the Croatian judiciary would be stifled with numerous bankruptcys that would take place in different courts in Croatia, so that it was also possible for suppliers and for those small micro-providers to pay their debts to large suppliers over 40% of the debt and to make clear what is the fundamental objective and purpose of passing the law itself, which is the settlement. And it will not, as Mr. Bunjac has said, that the settlement will be made against the will of the believers, because only the religious council or the religious council will adopt or reject the proposal for a settlement that will be made by an extraordinary administration. So when I look from this distance of nine months, almost 10 months of passing that law, then I want to say that there are two pictures. That picture, which is also made up of the adoption of the law itself and all those bonuses that come out of the law itself on the one hand, and on the other hand, is what's been going on over the past few days, and that's paying compensation to counselors. By now, the prime minister has also found that the analysis he received can say that this is not a violation of the law but can only be an ethical aspect of such an event, and we will begin as I have said to fully analyse the situation of payment of compensation to advisers after which he will bring his view on the matter of advisors' costs in the company. Therefore, what is important for both the religious and the Religious Council and suppliers is not a controversial work of the extraordinary administration, at least so far it has been repeated on a number of occasions. On the other hand, they support the work of the administration, the extraordinary administrations to access the making of the settlement itself because the aim of this law was to make a settlement that would allow Agrokor’s system to function further, i.e. the Agrokor companies. Because Agrokor himself as a company of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia is too important for the Croatian financial and economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66077	Thank you, too. And finally Mr. Maras in front of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66078	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. Here and now we can hear, and what the Croatian citizens of these days see and testify is that basically the government of Plenkovic is the Continuity of Ivo Sanader government of the Continuity of Labour in the way that was done during Ivo Sanader because it is incredibly scandalous that yesterday's prime minister, and today, counterpart Bacic here relatifies and justifies the costs that have now taken place in Agrokor and that a company with one or two employees earns 250 thousand kuna a week. It is according to counterpart Bačić and counterpart Plenkovic legally, it can be, it is not disputed because if it were disputed, the prime minister would have already reacted. And it is amazing that today, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not have the strength to react. If you don't have the strength to react, you're justifying it. And that's why I'm saying, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the government of the continuity of Ivo Sanader, the continuity of the work in the way it was done in the government of Ivo Sanader. And at the same time, Andrej Plenkovic, Branko Bačić or HDZ, doesn't mean anything that Agrokor employees in Konzum, for example, by the information I have, one employee comes to 280 squares, women run and men run from one part of the store to knock on the register, kill for their 4,5 thousand kuna per month, they don't care. They don't care, they say it's okay. It can be done that way, and at the same time this same consultant in an hour.Here while we are discussing this problem at the time of these breaks, he earns the same salary in an hour as the worker who has been running from the counter for a month to the register and back and all the employees of Konzum know that I am right here and that I am telling the truth and let them think about their extraordinary commissioner paying consultants 250 thousand kuna a week, and that they are running from the counter back to the register for as long as he is doing one single hour while reading some reports. And that's why I say once again, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the government of the continuity of the work as it was done during Ivo Sanader. And another thing is the same between Andrej Plenkovic and Ivo Sanader, and that's the amount of promise. Andrej Plenkovic already has his guarantee card, I will solve the INA, I will solve the panel in Jasenovac, I will solve the VAT in the first year we will reduce it by 1% in the first year of office, and by the end of the term there is 2%, there is nothing left now. I'll handle the curricula reform, there's nothing until now. Only affairs, I will solve the planes, there is nothing so far, only affairs, the guarantee card of Andrej Plenkovic is stronger by the number of promises not executed than it was the guarantee card of Ivo Sanader, it must be admitted to him. He outsmarted Ivo Sanader for not fulfilling his promises more than Ivo Sanader did. So Andrej Plenkovic just promises, doesn't do anything. And then scandalously, in the end, he still sends us messages here and through the HDZ Representatives' Club that it's legal, it's all right, 250 thousand kunas per consultants a week, every hour, every hour these consultants earn as much as the employees of the Consume that I told you run from place to place 280 squares cover the surface, run a month for how much they earn by reading one report in half an hour or an hour. That is what is embarrassing and that is why Croatian citizens expect a reaction and we expect the final prime minister to react but he obviously does not want to react. That is why I will also conclude, which is Plenkovic's government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is the HDZ government's continued work of HDZ government Ivo Sanader both by way of work and by volume of promises. And the next time he comes to the event, I'm going to make him one guarantee card from Andrej Plenkovic, and I'm going to hand it to him solemnly because the only thing I'm afraid he's not going to get on that little surface that he promised and what he didn't do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66079	Okay. Let's continue with the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66157	Dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66158	The Honorable Chairman would like to request a break on the subject of the HRT subscribers who, at these moments, are visiting people on Vrbik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66159	Thank you. Is there anyone else? No, I don't. I'm setting a break, at 17.05 we move on. It's 4:55 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.05 HOURS]] Can I go on with my friend Shuker? Thank you very much. We're continuing the plenary session. Stanku requested on behalf of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66161	I'll read you a question from a girl. He says: “Greetings! It's about HRT controllers. He knocked on my door today. To my question who's answering that is control. I'm asking for control of what, what the gentleman answered to open the door. I can't handle it at that point and I'm opening the door thinking it's electricity or gas. That's when the gentleman introduces himself to be from HRT trying to get into my apartment. I'm not letting him go because I'm getting ready for work and I'm in a hurry. He still asked a few irrelevant information and said I don't pay HRT fees, which I told him and what now. Afterwards, he bitterly replied that he would send me a notice. I'm asking what kind of notice, says the payment notice. He didn't even check if I had a TV or anything. I repeat, my apartment hasn't been entered. Can she really send me a ticket or anything?" That's what the girl sent me yesterday and today she writes the following. "Here's the sequel to the story. I've been informed of the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure and the payment of 240 kuna. I called the controller who made the record. He claims I have TV, that's what I said. I'm telling him I don't have a TV and he didn't have anything to write that record on. He told me to call HRT a direct there. I'm calling. No one's answering. I'm looking for another number. Finally, someone answered. Explain the situation. They're sending me back to the head of the controller. That's where the wrinkle comes in. The gentleman tells me that wherever I move around the MUP, they'll follow me and I'll pay the HRT fee. I have to pay for what was sent to me. I keep telling him I don't have a device and I didn't sign anything, nor was his controller in my apartment. They don't need to get into the apartment. So he can come in front of every apartment and write criminal proceedings without establishing the possession of a TV receiver. Then I went crazy and asked him not to dare the politicians to go public saying they don't pay a fee to what he told me, and we'll send Pernar a misdemeanor procedure without mentioning you, my side of it immediately to you. Where do we live? As far away as possible. So it's about the citizens thinking if they don't have television, that if they open the door to the HRT controller and tell him we don't have TV, that the controller will respect it. However, the information is incorrect. And the controllers today without even looking at if you have a TV on the Halo writing applications. I'll read you next what the girl says. He says it's him, he says he had some sort of huge list of names and last names and he asked me if I was that? I confirmed it. So the only thing the girl said he asked her if you didn't know Pero Peric, she says I'm Pero Peric. That's all the girl said. That's why the controller wrote that girl a ticket. I ask how long the HRT will be doing it, because this has nothing to do with the law. He has nothing to do with it. So if he finds out someone has a TV and doesn't pay a subscription, then he's a man of offense. But the HRT controller can't simply write a misdemeanor without seeing if anyone has a TV. Please, ladies and gentlemen, explain to me how this is possible in our country, which is why it is possible. Our country is not a legal state, laws are not respected. HRT controllers are above the law and HRT is working against the law. And what the controllers are doing has the support of not only the director of HRT, because if he didn't have a director he would stop such an unfair practice, but he also has the support of you in the Parliament. Because you voted for this supervisory board of directors of HRT. With this it is a shame on you and should tell voters publicly and openly that HDZ, that the SDP, that Bandic Milan 365, that the HNS and these minorities who voted for the current director and the current management of HRT are the ones who destroy systematically every human rights, deny human rights. And the right to an honest relationship, fair practice, it obviously doesn't exist for HRT. And voters when they vote for these parties that support HRT subscription and harassment that controllers do, actually work against themselves and I invite them all to support the Living Wall at this time because we're going to stop that practice. And we have put in the Croatian Parliament a proposal to amend the Law on HRT, which is abolished by TV subscription. And then you'll see again, if they put that dot on the agenda at all, that those who work for you about your head and who works for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u66162	I thank Mr. Pernar for this explanation of the break. I ask you to be able and remind you, on the basis of article 140, to ask a question in writing to the competent ministry, so that they will give you an answer. And I'm glad you said in the opening part that the laws have to be respected, so here's hoping you'll behave as well in your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70959	It is next: - Final proposal of the Gas Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 278. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted the proposal by the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal as I have already said in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Economy. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70960	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. I will present to you here the reasons why we propose this gas market law. I will be a little more extensive precisely because this law goes in one reading or today should also be a final debate, and I will say the reasons in the end why we asked for this law to be discussed in the first and second readings at the same time today. So we have a final proposal for a law on the gas market which fully complies with the provisions of Directive 73/2009 and will close the breach of EU law by the adoption of this law and that is to say, in violation of the number 4060/2015 and infringement of 2091/2017, which means that the amendment of the existing law of April 2017 was not sufficient to remove possible infringements of law. The relevant legal framework governing the gas market in the Republic of Croatia constitutes the Gas Market Act. The gas market in the Republic of Croatia has been liberalised since 2008, but since then we have regulated the price of gas in such a way that the Government of Croatia's decisions are a designated supplier on the wholesale gas market and its position in terms of determining the amount of gas needed, determining the capacity of the gas storage plant and determining the price of the gas at which natural gas is sold to public service providers for the needs of the household. So that's the condition we have today. The new draft law provides transparently for rules and options in accordance with which part of the storage capacity is reserved for the needs of the customer in the category of household in the public service obligation for security of supply. The new law also lays down rules on the conditions and method of selecting a supplier on the wholesale market, lays down supplyer rules on the public service obligation and on the guaranteed supplier, which is very important and the new law prescribes a methodology according to which the highest gas price for households is determined in the public service obligation. That's four important reasons why we're going to pass this law. Therefore, the adoption of the law will clearly define the competence to carry out certain tasks and to regulate all relations, rights and obligations of the gas market participants in accordance with Directive 73/2009. Therefore, the key changes relate precisely to the transparent regulation of rules and procedures when carrying out energy activities in the gas sector in order to enable all participants to have the same transparent rules of participation in the gas market and to protect both final customers in the public service and household obligation. These changes consist of several essential elements and I will try to explain. So this law clearly defines the definition of public services. Conformity of the definition of public service with Directive 73/2009 as regards the part relating to heat energy, which means that the gas for the purposes of heat energy has been left out of this definition or from the draft proposal for a gas market law itself. The Directive prohibits regulation of gas prices for energy entities that deliver heat energy, which has been the case in the Republic of Croatia so far. The proposal also defines the role of suppliers on the wholesale market. It was necessary to prescribe a transparent choice of suppliers on the wholesale market in the public tender as an option for suppliers in the public service obligation to choose to supply gas from suppliers on the wholesale market during the transitional period of three gas years, which is very important to highlight, which ends in the end of 1.10.2001. There are no significant changes to the current situation, and the transitional period has been extended compared to earlier talks with the European Commission solely for the specificity of the Croatian market. Therefore, the transitional period in question of three years is introduced so that suppliers in public service obligations can prepare professionally, technically and financially for the competition in accordance with the third energy package, given that not everyone is currently ready for it according to our assessment. So in this next period until 2021, public service providers will have the opportunity to adapt to the competition that comes after 1.4.2021. There will still be a supplier on the wholesale market, and in conclusion from 1.10.2021, which will allow regulated supply of gas to households. The key difference is that the same will no longer be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision but will also be determined by HERA on the basis of a public tender. It is important to note here that the amendments to the current applicable law of April 2017 may not be used by suppliers in public service obligations by suppliers on the wholesale market but rather by obtaining gas from other market participants, which is still prescribed by this proposal. According to our knowledge, this possibility is used by only one supplier in the public service obligation of 34 of them, as currently existing on the Croatian market. This proposal defines the role of supplier in relation to public service. It is necessary to provide for a transparent determination of suppliers in public service obligations based on tenders conducted by HERA after a three-year transitional period as well as the possibility of existing suppliers in public service obligations that no longer wish to provide public service obligations to come out of the same and to select a new substitute supplier in the public service obligation. It is important to say that the solution in question enables the supplyer to remain in the public service obligation and after a transitional period of three gas years to protect the customers of the household category or to enable households to be supplied under regulated conditions, which includes and to determine the maximum price at which the gas can be sold to households. Also defined is the guaranteed supplier. This law required the provision of a transparent determination of a guaranteed supplier on the market, which would have the obligation to deliver gas to a final buyer on a distribution system which, under certain conditions, was left without a supplier. Although there was a similar option now, the case was not implemented, and this is of great importance for the normal functioning of the market, if any of the suppliers on the market were no longer able to deliver gas to all final customers in the distribution network. It is also defined as a way of determining the price of gas for customers in public service. For the regulated price of gas for households in public service obligations, it was necessary to prescribe a transparent methodology by which it is determined, as the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is currently being determined, without that methodology. It is brought by HERA in a way that determines the highest price at which the wholesaler can sell gas to suppliers in public service obligations. The objective methodology will impact that there is no greater oscillation of gas prices for households on the market and that the existing situation is maintained, and this was among other things one of the conditions of the European Commission. The lease of the warehouse is defined in a way that, during a transitional period of 3 gas years, the possibility of a priority lease of the warehouse is left for the part relating to the public service directly or indirectly or indirectly through the supplier on the wholesale market. In order to ensure security of supply in such a way that part of the storage system’s capacity is allocated proportionately to the share of household consumption of public services and in accordance with the capabilities of the supply security regulation. Therefore, the key changes in the draft of this gas market law were presented on 12 October 2017 to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and to the Croatian Employers' Association, so that all the participants in the gas market would present their views and opinions on a timely basis and the final draft bill, prepared for reference to this public debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposer, proposes that the adoption of this law be followed by an urgent procedure for the next justified reasons. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of the emergency law are, in our opinion, a particular justification for state reasons, to ensure assumptions, for the functioning of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia, in line with market deadlines. At the same time, the EU's removal of non-application injuries, adoption of amendments and additions to the Gas Market Act in February 2017. Given that he was injured in 2015. has not been removed, and a new EU injury has been received in 2017, it is realistic to expect the initiation of a lawsuit that will also be implemented by sanctions. In addition, taking into account market terms of leases, warehouses and facilities, transport capacity, gas purchases, as well as the conclusion of contracts with suppliers in public service obligations, which is why I repeat, on 1 April of the current year, that activity should start at least 30 days earlier, meaning that the law would have to enter into force no later than 28 February 2018. The contracts with authorised suppliers in the public service obligation expire on 1 April 2018, until then, the price at which they can buy gas from suppliers on the wholesale market, which is taught by the current law, was decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the laws are adopted, the amendments and additions to the laws of February 2017 which do not comply with the EU Directive and which are in the process shall apply until 28 February 2018 and which would then be in the EU infringement procedure. Furthermore, the price of gas, according to which the supplier on the large sales market sells gas to households, public service obligations suppliers, ceases to be valid on 1 April 2018. These suppliers will not be able to decide in time whether to buy gas from suppliers on the wholesale market, resulting in the purchase of gas on the market, i.e. the possible increase in gas prices for households, taking into account current movements and gas prices. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. start the gas storage season, for the next heating year, and there is a real possibility that the storage capacity will not be charged in time unless the wholesaler completes contracts with the public service obligation supplier, which may endanger the security of supply during the heated season 2018-2019. Finally, by 28.2.2018, the law provides for the retention of the existing price, as well as the methodology at which the price will be determined, in order to protect the final customers of the household category. And in the end, I will only add a note, the price of gas for household customers, among the lowest in the EU. Only Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary have lower prices. At the same time, it is good to know that household consumption in the Republic of Croatia is about 25% of total gas consumption, and regulation, the most gas prices refer only to the segment of the market. Industry and entrepreneurship, have a marketable, therefore deregulated 4th quarter 2011 gas prices. I think these are clear reasons why the proposer requires this law to go in the first and second readings, i.e. by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70961	Thank you, too. You have five replicas. First Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70962	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you've given a very extensive explanation, but I would beg a slightly more concrete answer, namely the law goes into two readings. The government, by emergency procedure, is the first and second reading. Otherwise, the government decided to do it in two readings, and we had a series of laws yesterday that we warned it might be good to do so. It was equally evident from your argument that in October of last year there was a meeting in the HGK where you explained the law, it was visible that there was one pilot in 2014 and 2017, and now about half of the reasons why this law should be passed by February 28th because otherwise we have a number of problems. So I'm curious about why these reasons were, so we had November, we had half of December, that law could also go into two readings because I appreciate a law that would have been good for two readings, what's been going on since October, so here until mid-February that you didn't do it, but now we're putting it in a situation that if the laws aren't passed around, you can't guarantee the price of gas that's actually not good and it's not good to talk to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70963	Yes, the answer, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70964	I thank you, distinguished representative of Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash. So, the first initiative to amend this law was launched at 9 months last year and then respecting all the deadlines that are in the methodology of making proposals that must be respected in addition to consultations with the public, from the government's body, we came to this date by the government's decision. Let me remind you, this ministry in this system has been functioning since the 7th month and since the 4th month of last year, and this was some sort of priority that we took right after our annual vacation to work. That's why we came, we're aware that we came at one... But simply because of the deadlines prescribed in this procedure, we couldn't have done this thing any faster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70965	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70966	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Horvat with his associate, so here you are, in the final part of the argument, saying, which is the exact fact that somewhere around 1/4 of the gas market is wasteing on the household. That market is heavy about 13 billion kunas in the Republic of Croatia, so at least we can find the data. And when you talked about a three-year transition period in which we are not going to liberalise the gas market for households, you stated that the reason for the suppliers to prepare is that many are not yet prepared. But what bothers me is what's with our citizens? What about the households? I personally think that this law will unfortunately end up according to that people's proverb "stirring Kurt to ride Murt". We fight the monopoly, the European Commission asks us to, we will eventually have an oligopol. It is almost certain that many of our distributors will end their careers and remain several players on this market. It's going to happen in the future, whether we want it or not. My particular question to you now is, why exactly three years? I will if you give me a concrete explanation quite clearly, I will give up the amendment, and if not, I will go with the amendment to extend this deadline to 7 years. So until 2025. Only because of the interests of our citizens, especially those of consumers who spend less gas, who often use other sources of energy, whether it is wood, whether solar panels are combined with gas and are likely to increase gas prices for them. So, not by liberalising what is wanted, a reduction in gas price, but by increasing the price of gas. So I'm asking if you can answer, why exactly three years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70967	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70968	Dear counterpart Žagar, so until we passed this law, we were at risk of sanctions because of two pilots because we did not timely comply with the laws, an existing law with the remarks of the EU Commission. So the ministry negotiated with the Commission, the deadline for market deregulation would otherwise be 2018, because of our specificity, because of the small market, etc., because of the need for these small suppliers to adapt to the market, we received a maximum period of 3 years. So this was negotiated with the commission, we did not set the deadline, we got it, and within that time period we will have at the new methodology, a price formed by HERA, no more by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but by law a prescribed methodology, HERA will calculate the highest price to protect the household from any social impact of the potential gas consumption. We will have opportunities for public service providers to decide who to get gas from, to get gas and to have a specific methodology on a public call, a selected supplier on the wholesale market, which has not been the case so far. So, the elements of some decentralisation of the whole process have been installed in these 3 years with the possibility that, over the three years, small suppliers, household suppliers will adapt to 2021 when they will be absolutely exposed to the market, when there will be no more large suppliers, but will have to manage themselves for gas in the EU market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70969	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Third replica, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. :
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70970	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is clear that we are making this law because we have to respect some rules and European directives and we are making it by emergency procedure, although there has been enough time for it not to be an emergency procedure, so I ask you, since I am talking about the gas market, are we going to have a law here soon which will mean a violation of the European Declaration of Local Self-Government, violation of the Constitution, violation of the law of the Republic of Croatia, violation of the Omisalj municipality's decisions, violation of the decisions of the Primorje-Goran County Assembly, violation of the will of the citizens of Omis, Krk and Primorje-Gorski County, where the LNG terminal is forced to push? So, we've recently even seen the Americans command us to think about the energy sector and the gas market. I remind you that the Municipality of Omisalj and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County support all strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, including those in the energy sector, provided they do not endanger and have no negative impact on the environment and on economic movements. According to all indicators, the announcement of a floating LNG terminal does not have any economic gain for Omisalj, Krk and Primorje-Gorski County and carries a huge risk and a negative impact on the environment, landscape and especially on tourism. Therefore, will we soon receive such a law that will deny the will of local self-government, deny the Constitution and mean violence beyond the reach of the citizens of Omis, Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70971	Thank you. Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70972	I thank you, dear representative Dr. Jovanovic. So, I tried to say the reasons why we believe this law should go into two readings and that it is urgent to enter into force on February 28th, because 1.4 if we don't do this, when these events in gas supply start from buying, contracting prices, forming prices, renting storage space, etc. which make up the element of security of citizens and the quality of supply, we will generally do it according to the old, existing law that is now in force, which is threatened by the pilot. So these are the reasons why we're breaking down in a way that violates the practice that laws go into two readings. You said LNG terminal, preparing a legal proposal. I believe I can't say that, but I'm sure he will, given the seriousness of the subject, go into two readings. I think these are unique reasons for the urgent procedure that is related to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70973	The next line is Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, this law may be far more important than the atmosphere in the assembly and how many of us are in the assembly. And because of the mix of ownership of all those who will participate in this process, I believe that for both us and Croatian citizens and for what it will be, staying in the archives of this Parliament should have done so is my proposal a single overall state of infrastructure, property, suppliers. And I think it would be a lot easier for us to discuss. Let us not forget that in 2013, in 2014 the gas distribution took INAs, we gave HEP. Let's not forget that Plinacro owns the OCOLI gas warehouse. Let us also not forget that Croatia has invested a great deal of money to build gas infrastructure primarily with drilling in the northern Adriatic and practically do, pulling gas to Dalmatia. So that's all the power and power that Croatia has at the moment. And tomorrow if we're going to liberalize it we as a state have what to offer and condition some who want to come to our market so that they can use that infrastructure. Because the other thing is when you come to provide a service on the ledge, and the other thing is when you come to provide a service in one space that is very infrastructureally equipped. Because I'm sorry to build a freeway pipeline from Fažana to Karlovac, so from Karlovac down to Split with huge potential is not something that tomorrow when we liberalize the market we simply have to close our eyes. We must certainly say that this is the great potential of those who will enter the Croatian market tomorrow as some sort of general supplier. And one more thing, pull the analogy to the Law on the Communist Economy, please, just five seconds. We don't allow two activities in the same company, and here we say accounting when you split up, so you can do two activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70975	Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70976	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Shucker. So, it is you who, through these questions of yours, are the open dilemmas that have certainly answered valuable debates, which is why this law should be passed. So we have a series of unresolved things, especially in the sphere of ownership relations. And that's one of the reasons why the European Commission gave us this three-year period, said listen you're specific about that, that, that. Among other things, that's why. Here's your three-month deadline and three years to 2021, and at the same time through this methodology of selecting suppliers on the wholesale market allows you to be the most favourable supplier. This will be taken into account by HERA, so the government will no longer take over HEP and give INAs and form itself. Therefore, a methodology is defined by which HERA will, according to the parameters prescribed by law, set the maximum price to protect citizens. Everything else is prescribed here. We haven't had that before. And this very period of three years is when we need to clear all these dilemmas from 2021, and then we have one policy that's a lot more quality than we've had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70977	Thank you. And the last replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70978	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State with an associate. The assumption is that in Croatia gas will be used for several decades, it is one of the most important energy we have. So according to some analyses, more than a quarter of the gas-disposed power plants, so the citizens are interested in two basic things. First, whether there will be an increase in the price of gas and another of the gas supply, i.e. the gas supplies of the Republic of Croatia. You've already made it very clear between the lines that there will be an increase in gas prices very quickly, which is not good news. And the other thing you haven't said, which I'd like you to say now is whether it's true, that in gas storage stores, there are at least levels, counting the last two decades, the last 20 years. Because it is known, therefore, that there is very little investment, very little research and that in fact the future of the gas market is very uncertain. Croatia's policy generally does not give us the right to some optimism, because we know that we no longer have a supply of precious metals, especially gold, we do not have gas supplies, we do not have what is the worst of all even food supplies. Well, if we no longer have gas supplies, then the question arises, whether Croatia has any other form of independence or if we are really extradited to mercy and mercy, as you say, the market, or, that is, the European Commission's decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70979	Thank you, too. Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70980	I thank the esteemed representative of Bunjac, therefore, the logic of this law is to ensure quality supply and to ensure permanent supply over a period of 3 years during which we must adapt and through the deadline given to us by the European Commission, whether we like it or not. So, 2021 is the deadline when we go to market with all the elements that participate in this system. Until then, we had room to choose a supplier more transparently on the wholesale market and we gave room for public service providers, so direct household suppliers, to choose with whom they will work. Either that supplier's gonna be their commissioner, their gas supplier, or they're gonna look for it themselves. I will say here that in the Republic of Croatia, households had a very wide range of suppliers, suppliers, such as in telecommunications or electricity, so according to HROT, so far around 10,000 households have changed suppliers. And that's the element we need to talk about here. Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, has its own gas capacity, 45% of its needs. The rest must be supplied on the market. It is precisely this law that determines security in supply, quality through these 3 years and storage. If you've read it well, you've seen that there's a minimum of stockpiling work here, which must exist and the price will be formed, it won't be higher, it will now be formed by the criteria prescribed by law, and will be determined by HERA. Therefore, the government will not determine the price, either higher or lower, the elements of the law will show how much price will be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70981	Time, Mr. Secretary of State. We're continuing the debate. No, first of all, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I open the debate, first of all by clubs, first Mr. Slaven Dobrović, Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70982	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the secretary of state and associate. So, the law on the gas market, that I have to say, it's a rather complex area, very sensitive, because it's a transition that we started, so, and years ago. The solution from a year ago was one of those steps. Because, of course, liberalizing the gas market in the given conditions is all just not easy. Why? Because it needs to worry about the security of supply and, secondly, the price, i.e. availability, especially for our citizens. Because to get gas, of course there's an increased consumption season, so there's storage capacity, there's distribution capacity, so, and the different players on in that gas system have to be kind of harmonised. The State, of course, is concerned that this harmonisation should be so, that security of supply is not compromised and that accessibility, that is to say, this liberalisation creates conditions for lower prices. Therefore, from the period when the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia defined the question, i.e. It resolved both the issue and the quantity and capacity of the warehouse and the prices, therefore, in relation to the supplier on the wholesale market, which is HEP and the supplier in the public service obligation for the purposes of which, households, therefore, are leaving that time. All in all, this law is good and it needs to be passed. I think the public debate was pretty solid and that the legislator worked very well with interested players. Although there are some things that have been rejected, so I will now mention them here and I think you could make an additional effort to solve these things too because you would further make progress in the quality of this document. The first of these is in Art. 21. are defined, therefore, by the question of appointments, in an independent transport operator, for example, and there is a solution, i.e., provisions from the EU and there are quite strictly prohibited or, therefore, the behaviour of those persons, which are appointed in... the transport must therefore not act as a duty, obligations and business share and business relations in a vertically integrated entity or part thereof. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also after the appointment of 4 years I understand that in a developed market in Europe where you have very many players and where there is no problem with staff, professional staff, there may be a situation. It is likely that these strict provisions do not endanger the possibility of finding even professional people because we need those experts. So not anyone who will meet some formal conditions and who has no experience whatsoever, and it seems to me that for Croatia this is quite restrictive and threatening and that it will be a problem to find people. So, all right, blind, consistent and hard to comply with the provisions that come from the EU, maybe we could achieve a better transitional solution here than we do in other things. Furthermore, we have an article, this was Article 21, in Article 45, there is a proposal concerning the installation in this legislative proposal of an obligation, installation or addition of an article which would oblige the operator to install smart numbers. So that's rejected, I think the argument given is not enough, or that it might go a little tougher and actually more engaged or more ambitious. So measurement, the measurement system today when the technology of measuring remote reading, monitoring the state of the network has gone significantly further, this legislative proposal is not in line with these achievements in the technique because it knows the state of the network, consumption, it allows a lot of things, and it is a pity that it is not going for the Croatian gas distribution system or connection with consumers to go in as quickly as possible with these smart numbers because they allow a lot of things. This is also linked to the efficiency and quality of management of the system, with complaints, with the same fact that there is a period of transition in front of us and not only from the market but also with regard to energy solutions, because gas is the most common fossil fuel and it will actually be very significant, but in this transition from fossil to low carbon post-fossil society, gas may also experience an increase in consumption, i.e. It probably will, but then integration of various renewable sources will see a reduction. So those specks we've learned under the current conditions certainly won't fit some new peaks, high-end consumption. And that's all very important, so I think it's really a failure not to follow such a proposal. I will end with the obligation of the operator in Article 46, so the distribution system operator that needs to develop a gas distribution system development plan, in accordance with the Energy Development Strategy, the Energy Development Strategy and the plans and programmes of the units of local and regional and regional self-government. I think it's a very difficult task, especially knowing that at local and regional level, this problem, or this system, is approached in a completely different way. In fact, there are often no professional grounds for this planning to be brought into line with today’s issues. So there is a lot, and we also know that planning in local and regional self-government is actually often subject to these political or electoral cycles, so that most often in time, if planned once a year, in the pre-election period, it will look quite different, or after the election. And this planning should be more serious. So I think that this obligation that is imposed here will be difficult to meet or realize, and the obligations will certainly be weak and do not correspond to what the planning of the development of the distribution system actually carries. So it should also be done significantly. Here, that's how I'm going to end this debate, says the law as such should, in our opinion, accept but I appeal to the motionary to consider these things, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70983	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first line has Mr. Tomislav Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70984	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dobrović, when we talk about the transport system in the Republic of Croatia, it is almost 3,000km of network, now the operator of that PLINACRO system and it was in the signing of the contract with and the suppliers, there were remarks, it is seen from the findings of the audit even there in 2010, there were objections to the tariffs requested by PLINACRO and even what amazed me there was said that many suppliers had done business past the contract, so they didn't have a contract. As it was possible, that's one story. But I'm afraid of this second piece that you mentioned and that's over 17,000 kilometers of network in the distribution system mostly owned by local self-government units. There is a need for significant investments, there are many systems where there are huge gas losses and where the networks have run out, so we had a case where there is a municipal council, I think the Fericans have decided to sell their gas network. This is one aspect of it, meaning the state of the distribution system and of those players that will enter that area after 2021. I certainly think that what I want to point out is inevitably here in the Slavonia area I guarantee that the price of gas will collect for the household. It is impossible for liberalisation to bring down the price of gas for the simple reason that it did not have a lot of consumers. If we take analogy here, let's say it's not the best or the hottest with mobile services, they have more favourable services that spend more impulses, the higher unit, it'll be the same with gas. We don't have that kind of consumption, and many households will pay for more expensive gas. And in that sense, I think liberalisation should be delayed, but of course if the secretary of state says it was negotiated with the European Commission it will be quite difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70985	Thank you, too. Answer Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70986	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, it is true, I said in my statement that this is a rather complex system on one side of the distribution system a complex technical object to be maintained and it is desirable to actually have as much consumption as possible to satisfy this consumption through the price of the total in whose structure all the costs are covered by this cost. On the other hand, we have a tendency to go towards energy efficiency, to spend less, to make households go towards increasing energy efficiency, isolation, a smaller consumer, installing renewable energy sources, and now it needs to be reconciled all together. We don't even know what direction the market is going in, how it's going to react, how it's going to go up or down anyway I think we should find one way where we won't create opportunities for someone to be a monopoliest and then act on their own. Of course, that definitely leads to price hikes. I'm saying, it's complicated, I don't see any problem in this trip, or it's hard to find a much better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70987	Thank you, too. The second line is Mr. Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70988	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Dobrović, I am interested in the political position of the Bridge on the construction of a floating LNG terminal in Omislj, Krk, and I am interested in what is your point of view of environmental studies that have indicated that it will have negative effects by floating LNG terminals on marine organisms and the environment. I am known to see that both the county assembly and the municipal council are against the construction of a floating LNG terminal, and one of the essential principles is the principle of subsidiarity in the EU, and according to this principle of subsidiarity, decisions of local and regional self-government should be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70989	Thank you, too. Here's your answer, Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70990	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Schibol. So the development path for the gas market in Croatia would certainly include some new supply direction, and in this respect we believe that LNG terminal or ingested natural gas is something that belongs to projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Now, we come to the question of floating or land. We need to make any one that can be made quickly, the last decision and the information that we had went in favor of doing swimming or floating terminals. On the other hand, the solution that I've seen exists in the study where you go with chlorine as a biocidal product for the treatment of seawater that heats the evaporator is not well, I personally against the use of chlorine, I'll probably participate in some public talks on this matter, definitely it's a matter of technical gas evaporation solution. And there are other solutions and it is not necessary to use sea water to heat these evaporating pipes because the shallowly closed sea of the Kvarner Gulf does not allow it, in my assessment, and we cannot allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70991	Thank you. And the last line is Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70992	Thank you very much. My colleague Dobrović, listening to your debate, I love it when we discuss such laws to see a place where such a law should be applied because we only talk about the gas market, and not to see the space in which this game is played, I think we seem insecure to our citizens. Why? Because ten years ago, the guy who had a contract with Russia to deliver gas was very hard to get, today is not exactly the situation. But what I want to point out today for the whole time of this debate and I want to debate, which is that the space in which this law should be applied, therefore the tools, which is infrastructure is practically owned or the unit of local self-government is mostly owned by the state. And I think that's why we need to talk about liberalisation just to eliminate this space from liberalisation, to keep it in the hands of the state. Why? Because then you have an instrument that you can conduct and condition some things, not that some other players condition you with certain things. Because let's not forget that one of the most important economic operators in the Republic of Croatia is strategically important, the Kutina Petrochemy is highly dependent on the price of this energy. So we can't get that out of the way. And today, when we talk about the future of Petrochemy, not to see at what price this Petrochemy can get gas as the main energy for producing what it needs, not only for Croatian agriculture, but simply for illusory purposes. And therefore talk about this law, not say what Croatia has as a capital for the application of this law and talk about some liberalisation without any criteria or someone who comes to Croatia must benefit from what Croatia has, and Croatia has done a lot there. And there's still room to do some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70993	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrović, you have your word, but for the future, you should raise the bat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70994	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shucker, I don't think I belong to those who are proponents of liberalisation just like that. It's about being controlled liberalisation. And the infrastructure that Croatia has in any case is an important tool and here it is my opinion that there are transparent conditions for putting these tools on the market because it takes part of the cost, the total cost of supply, storage and distribution of gas. So I agree basically with you, it is an important tool and Croatia is now significantly richer by this infrastructure, and I also think that this terminal is a good thing, that Croatia strengthens in this respect, but I don't think that gas is an all-powerful solution that we should devote ourselves to for the next few hundred years. So it's one energy that might experience the maximum of some time, but we have to strive for renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70995	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate by the clubs, Mr. Darko Horvat, in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70996	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, an assistant of one of the key ones, I would say, economic energy resistors today in the government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to step back again, so about this same time last year we were also bringing in an emergency procedure because of this magic one. 4. and the start of a gas or heating year and the need to rent storage facilities, changes and additions, I dare say, the same law by emergency procedure and this is not a dare to say, a new legislative proposal. This is one logical sequence of what we verified about a year ago, I will remind you of the moments of February 2007, so the amendments to the Gas Market Law, we have harmonised the legislative framework with Directives 312, 1227 and 703 and what I will dare to say, perhaps a little stubbornly, did not want to allow and release, so the European Commission sent us one pack for a simple reason, because in 2009, when we received in the space of the Republic of Croatia the obligation to comply with the third energy package, the gas segment then and today it edited Directive No. 73. There it is, the European Commission is not fully satisfied with everything that it has set out in this Directive, and as part of the new legislative proposal, we are harmonising the legislative framework fully with Directive No. 73 which is part of the third energy package. And I'm glad to be in the gas business segment, so I'll dare say we're fully in line with the third energy package before Europe sends us a quarter of the energy package in the spring of this year. I'll remind you that these changes and additions in the 2nd month last year have introduced some innovations, we've removed the INA's need, or the INA's obligation to sell all gas in the Republic, we've removed the need for suppliers to primarily buy that gas from the manufacturer and at the moment it was the only INA, and then we're the same if you'll remember the accent and almost 90% went in this direction that such market liberalisation will contribute to a drastic price increase and it happened in that corrective amount and that increase during still this warm year was at 1%. In this legislative proposal, the Government has left itself some of the protection mechanisms and this transitional period that we are talking about today, which we have negotiated with the European Commission for 3 years, I am sure is enough to fully prepare our distributors and suppliers for what awaits us in 2021. The only and a small difference between Directive No. 72 that similarly regulated the electricity market, in the natural gas market editing segment, one call it deviation and deviation from the same methodology in the electricity system is the existence of an underground gas storage and a fixed price which, ultimately, when the HERA rather than more government, will first create a methodology, it will present to us, at which it will determine the maximum market price that will be possible in the Republic of Croatia and then open a public competition or competition on which suppliers will appear on the wholesale market as key players, have a defined strictly defined ceiling and be able to go into this business below that ceiling, I think there is another step towards something that, at some point, I'm sure, will call the fully liberalised natural gas market in the Republic of Croatia. But what and what cannot be taken as an impression of the error of communication in this debate is the fact that in this segment, in this market activity, related to gas business in the Republic of Croatia, we have something that we still have a firm safeguard and we do not want to give it up, and this is exactly the number 73 directive that radically and very clearly drives us to do so. This is a clear accounting distinction and particularly the conduct of market and regulated activities. What is regulated today and what is market activity in the gas business segment. Therefore, gas production is a clean market activity, gas supply is a clean market activity. Now, unlike the power system, who owns the infrastructure that's the subject of regulated activities? In the electricity system, live housewives, therefore, transmission networks or transmission systems, is owned by a company, which is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. And in the gas system, the living cookhouse and the owner of the transmission system in the gas business is a company that is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. The distribution in the electricity system is owned by a company that is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. But the distribution network and distribution in the gas system or gas business is the place of the same ownership. So today, 34 distributors dealing with distribution activities, as a regulated activity. The infrastructure is owned, privately owned, owned by units of local and regional self-government and state-owned. And that's a big difference compared to the same activity in that power system. And now, so we don't fall out, or at some point we don't show up and be more Catholic than the Pope, let's not let ourselves, that what's the spine of the system, which is the transmission networks, at any point we start to think about some kind of privatisation or something that might be managed by the market. Therefore, regulation of activity and management, i.e., I would dare say, maintenance, construction and management of the transmission network, must remain under the helm, something with a state omen. As regards production and supply, these are segments, in which both the Electricity Market and the Gas Market Act, experience step by step, liberalisation, until the moment, while the real market will not be the ones to define the conditions under which the market or market activities will be carried out. So, in the new legislative proposal, I will repeat, with the full harmonisation of the law with Directive 73, we are correcting and harmonising certain concepts and definitions, which, in my opinion, are very important, I will dare say crucial, and we must be careful not to be of ambiguous importance. Therefore, the definition of public service, the definition of public service which we transfer from the directive to law enforcement, is clearly defined and followed by the same sequence imposed by Directive 73. The role of supplier on the wholesale market. So, wholesaler, let's not forget that last year's legislative proposal, in the transitional period, to discuss the public tender and selecting suppliers on the wholesale market by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has put that role into HEP. The HEP is also given a transitional period within which he will deal with the business until the tender is opened and up to the moment, until such supplier is defined as part of a public competition in the selection of the one who, in the territory of Croatia and for the benefit of the final customers, will be held by the public tender. The role of the supplier in the public service obligation is I would say, by definition, the sequence of connections, the spam supply of gas on the market and the obligations at this point in the transitional period, that this gas is purchased in a public tender, the defined supplier on the wholesale market, and after the transitional period, there will be no more and the suppliers in the public service segment, the gas will be able to choose and obtain on the market if it is a business decision, which brings them benefits, which in their business they want or seek. The new moment of this legislative proposal is so-called. guaranteed supplier. If you happen as a final customer, if you happen to be as a final customer, not one of the suppliers in the public service obligation wants you because of the problem in charge or some other problems, there will be a guaranteed supplier who will have to take you and with which you will define your business relationship under this law somewhat specific conditions and criteria. So, by this legal proposal, we're lowering the power to set the maximum price on HERA. We are full of stories that the government no longer needs to be the regulator that the government no longer needs to determine or have any in pricing, so here is the final legislative proposal that is first imposed on HERA, first imposes on the production of a transparent methodology and then on the basis of this methodology a clear and transparent calculation of the maximum price to be applied to the competition, so that all those who wish to participate in this competition can, or by those Hera defined conditions or lower participation in the gas business in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Another novelty that follows this bill. Methodology of the purchase of storage facilities. Therefore, the transformation from the fact that this relatively small storage space in our near history has been purchased usually in the INA 100% amount until the transitional period that even the wholesaler of these services has the right to participate in the storage capacity until the moment where transparent storage facilities will be placed on the market by suppliers depending on the share of supply on the market of the Republic of Croatia. So, aware of the fact that, at this point, we do not have a flexible underground gas storage system that I am aware of, and I am sure that our public is also aware that, with those strategic decisions finally in Croatia, a decision has been made to go into the construction of LNG terminals, one large part of the investment of not that connector between the island and Kukuljanov to the point of connection of the future LNG gas export to the transmission system, but from Kukuljanov, all the way to an inclusive limit, requires a reversible pipe to have even the possibility and the conditions to trade or supply the market not only of the RH but of the region with such a type of gas. So to give PLINACRO or someone else at all the resources and the ability to be an operator and manage not only regasification but transport, distribution and some other things that are going to happen in this gas business. So, in order to create at all necessary, those necessary physical conditions for this business to develop and we need a reversible system, we need a new, flexible warehouse and what is the fact that LNG is going to start building a business model that will justify such an investment, and after that, including building a new underground flexible gas storage facility. So, the HDZ Club will support this law and unconnected by the urgent procedure we are aware of the fact that this emergency procedure is... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70997	Thank you, too. With us are students and students of Daruvar High School, 50 pupils and students. I hope with my teachers, even though it doesn't say here. Let's give them a round of applause 'cause they deserve it. They will witness Mr. Pernar's replica now, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70998	Dear Representative Horvat, I am genuinely interested in a detail. Can anyone from the ruling majority, perhaps from an opposition that is an economic logic, that we sell our gas to the Italians at four times the price of importing it from the Russians. In fact, Croatia produces even 80% of its gas needs, but half of that gas, as I said, is sold to Italians at miserable prices. The state has protective mechanisms, it can increase the amount of the mining rent, it can prevent gas spills if it wants for no money and in fact we have gas-relieving space in Croatia. But that space isn't in the LNG terminal because that gas is incinerated and more expensive than it is in the pipeline or what comes to us from our gas wells, but the solution is to stop working against ourselves and in the interest of Italians and domestic people who are being bribed to implement such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u70999	Mr. Horvath, respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71000	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Pernar, when you listen to the Croatian public there are many people who believe in your strange and untrue figures. Reading what you just read on the Internet is your 2008 information. Sleeping for 10 years does not mean that you are an expert and you are following the actual state of gas business, because in 2008 the Republic of Croatia produced you on the northern Adriatic a percentage of the needs in that gas. Today, when production on the northern Adriatic is about a billion cubic metres away, it is about 50% of Croatian needs. This does not mean that this production cannot be higher. But the story tells the Croatian public that INA is its gas, so let's not forget that we entered the joinventures with the Italians and that at that moment when we negotiated together a mixed company you won't find it anywhere on your iPhone. I can only tell you colleagues who have been in this business for 10 years and who you can trust and even have them in this Croatian Assembly. So, the fact that we in the Joinventure together with the Italian company entered into the financing of production in the northern Adriatic 50:50, and that we then paid off and still pay off their share today in a way that some of that produced gas ends in the Italian market does not mean and it may not be true and perhaps even in the name of some should be told to the Croatian public in this way because of the fact that they do not have real logic with common sense because at this point, perhaps a year or two more, we will have complete production in the Croatian Adriatic for our own Croatian needs. because we will pay the investment of an Italian company precisely by the amount of gas that ends up on the Italian market. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71001	Time, thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71002	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, you have touched one topic in your debate and I think it is important to highlight and define it. You've distinguished the fact where the market can be compared to production and supply and you've talked about the transmission system. It is also extremely important in this assembly several times and you compared it with electricity so what are the differences, which are similar but it is extremely important that we once again emphasize the transmission system that Croatia has done well, there are still some things that need to be done completely and that this transmission system and those pipes that we call them not the topic of the market. The theme is that you rent and let someone's gas go, but the very pipe itself and the importance that the transfer system does not put the country on the market, should not be placed on the market and the transmission system should be in hands or in a company that is 100% owned by the state, and then forced it to rent, earn everything else, and I think it should be stressed once again. I'm particularly saying that from the point of view of someone who is in principle advocating the liberalisation of the market and everything else, but somewhere you need to draw a line. And there actually needs to be the role of a state that will make things possible, and then force the one who manages her name to manage well, to earn everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71003	Thank you, too. Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71004	So here I can say on behalf of all those who are today monitoring the energy sector in the Republic thank you for these sentences because I won't have anything to add, everything you said is just like that, aware of the fact that these 34 of us are going to call them local distributors, right now they're doing it. So they buy their transmission capacity through Plinacro in order to have the availability and availability of the system at the moment when the consumer needs it. To distinguish the market from regulated activity and what I will once again warn you of what is very important, do not allow the profit in regulated items to be transferred and cover losses in the market activity, i.e. the ingenuity and tasks of HERA regulators and these are parameters that should either set up or replace the directors of commercial companies who operate with such a system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71005	Thank you, too. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71006	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, I've answered the line for two things. This is the last thing you said, we often like to push ourselves around in this House on unnecessary agencies, etc., you have now pointed out the importance of HERA as an independent regulator who, without political interference, needs to regulate certain things. And HERA really should ultimately function the way it should work. And the other thing I'm going to do today all day long, it's an infrastructure network. I would like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that gas supply was once a communal activity and was financed from the budget of the local self-government units. So I will take, for example, my town of Velika Gorica, for years, the greats have been paying for self-debt to build a master's pipeline, and the network made by the city's gas station was made with citizens' money, the only problem with the reduction stations attributed to the gas station and the logical thing that it was infrastructure owned by citizens, the city. As this city will regulate whether to start a new company, it doesn't matter at all, but it simply must not be liberalised, it should be a means based on which we can conduct some things because it doesn't matter what you enter a competition with. So Croatia enters this competition with large infrastructure capital into it by state-owned companies, that's what local companies have invested in, and we're talking about liberalisation to supply, but it's going through something that we have. The HERA therefore needs to take this into account, and as far as this financial separation is concerned, it is also the Accounting Act and international standards clearly defined how certain things should be set up. And I mean, what's good by law is okay. And there's nothing to complain about, but I think in our debate, we need to make these things more potent, because they're factual. Some governments have done so even though they have been spit over, and this should be pointed out and repeatedly repeat the capital that Croatia has. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Excuse me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71007	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71008	So this second part of the question is actually the thematically attached question of colleague Mrak-Taritash and here we have taken a clear position and I think that no one who has any understanding of the functioning of the energy system is going to dispute that the spine of the system, and these are transmission networks must remain state-owned and that discussions on any liberalisation of the infrastructure should not be at all. What I'm going to give my clear opinion of and seeing is your review on HERA. So energy entities in the space of a small Republic of Croatia have an income side somewhere between 30 billion and 35 billion kuna, so that's more than 10% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. So if we're somewhere in the tourism segment now maybe at 16 or 17, the second sector that turns the large amount of money in the Republic of Croatia is energy. We don't have an effective cop, a regulator who can control market anomalies or any other anomalies is actually a system failure and we can't afford that. So, what we need to do in liberalisation is step by step forward, adequately, we need to capitulate HERA to all that liberalisation, there is a mechanism within that HERA, therefore, and the resources of technology and the resources of human potential that will be able to keep this under control and that will not allow anomalies in the energy market of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71009	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71010	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Horvat, here you have spoken mostly of a gas system that is 100% owned at least as regards the thick tube of the Republic of Croatia and I agree that it must remain that way. However, the role of HERA may not be very good at this because we see that at this point, and here's counterpart Shucker was just talking about Petrochemy, that Petrochemy pays 3-5 times more expensive transport than it is in EU countries. And that he pays for the gas that's here from his colleague Shucker said he's energetic but he's not in Petrochemy, it's raw materials... I'm sorry, but I think I just heard it in the debate. [[You can't hear it.]] It is a very important price of gas, which is on average 20% higher for Petrochemia after Petrochem must buy via INA or via PPD and sell its product on the market. Transport owned by the Republic of Croatia, PLINACRO owned by the Republic of Croatia, and in some ways we are destroying a company that is also predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia. We know that Petrochemy spends about 650 million cubic metres, underground warehouse around about 500 million cubic metres, and Petrochemy spends even in the period when gas is not consumed in households, that is the summer section, and thus contributes to the price deals when bought on the wholesale market. And I believe that this law will not affect the regulator enough either to correct that part and that this transport price is reduced to the EU level and then normally if the state realizes that it must help Petrochemia to come because it is in losses and has entered because it cannot pay gas, to help through this law, but also through others, that this Petrochemy is finally at the price of the gas that is on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71011	Time, Mr. Lenart. Mr. Horvath, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71012	I'm usually glad to be in this kind of debate especially because these are finally discussions that have no ideologies but ultimately a draw, plus or minus in some business relationship at the end of the year. However, we have several stumbling blocks, so I will take just one example and it will be very clearly presented, for the sake of the state-owned PLINACRO company in its ten-year interconnection plan with the transfer system of the Republic of Hungary in a way and in the contract that the Croatian side builds an interconnector to the border and the Hungarian side from the border on the other. And now what happens in that whole story? We take the credit that we pass on to the final one metre of cubic gas and the Hungarians get the European Commission's subsidy and the zero kuna interconnector. There can be no such anomalies at this point for a simple reason because I have to pay off finally what we invested in building a portable system. And our methodology, or our tariff, is burdened by the cost of building infrastructure unlike some other countries where the infrastructure was built in a completely different way. And it's my position, and it's my opinion to you, and I'm going to defend that as a profession anywhere, when we go into the construction of LNG terminal, we can't let the construction of that infrastructure go to the final buyer in the Republic of Croatia and that because of the investment in LNG or underground storage of gas, the final customers in the Republic pay it back by returning the credit arrangement through the price of buying or buying a cubic meter or kilowatt of gas power. It's a key and fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71013	Thank you, too. And finally, the last replica, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71014	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvat, here I am and we from HSS support that we have one regulated gas distribution system in the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. First, if we had enough gas available throughout the year for both industry and citizens in the Republic of Croatia and we had that energy available to our households and I'm afraid this business model would not produce in that competition, however, until the price increases in distribution and then towards end-users. I'm saying this for a few reasons, out of practice where we remember that 34 local distributors through various local, regional self-government tenders, shared who would have any area in the concession and that there were a lot of administrative disputes just for what you mentioned, that part of the network owned by distributors, units of local self-government or regional self-government, and until this dispute was resolved, we had a situation that threatened to keep a particular area in a vacuum space without gas distribution and we even had to invent models, the decisions of the county assembly how to bridge that situation so that kindergarten or school would remain without gas until the dispute was resolved. That's why this guaranteed supplier model is good, I hope it solves such problems that it no longer happens in practice, and also that we have instruments that when a certain local distributor gets a concession in a particular area and commits to building a network in that part of the settlement especially in rural areas where not so many users, where he has no economic motive to force him to sign what he signed through the concession contract to build. It is accessible on the ground by local self-government units, tormented by distributors about it. And of course we welcome the construction of LNG terminals but that companies that have worked on building similar, like Đura Đakovic and get a job and not that some companies that have not had experience in such businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71015	Thank you. Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71016	In this part of the story about HERA's intelligence, I agree fully with you, that is, this problem that you have mentioned now, a very well-accompanied regulatory agency should be dealt with very flexiblely and very quickly. In fact, all energy entities are obliged to send their 5 and 10 annual plans for verification to the regulator in order to then, through the definition of the methodology for this distribution amount of the tariff item, HERA granted to that local distributor the amount that it collects in the part of the regulated activity and then from which the system is constructed. If the local distributor and even PLINACRO as a national company collects a tariff in their development plans, and the tariff does not invest in the construction of the system, then HERA would need the concession contract to stop, suspend or terminate and discuss the tender for the new distributor. You will remember, and I will warn you that in the changes in the second month, we have introduced a provision that eliminates the possibility that every 2 or 3 years they will discuss such tenders because in the legislative framework we have said that the concession cannot be given for less than 20 years but certainly no more than 50, with that the concession can always be extended. Now, if the concessionary is not acting in accordance with the conditions for which the concession was granted, then the officer in the energy sector, so the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which can either abolish or do so in one respect, is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71017	Thank you. Let's move on with the club debates, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71018	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Gas Market Act, the final proposal in the first and second readings. I must also say that when it comes to important laws, I appreciate that this is an important and important law, that it would be nice at least in the opening work to see the minister, but very rarely we see, there are those who really do their job right, come, show that they care about the law and respect the parliamentary representatives who discuss it, there are also those who don't do it, so my God, to everyone on our souls to see what he does and how he does. It's a law that we're going to support for the simple reason that there's not much choice. It's a law that we simply have to do our job by February 28th to protect what we all have important tasks to do, which is to protect our citizens. Likewise, the EU has given us this one transitional period and I appreciate that this is the law we have in 3 years. This is the law we have in three years, after three years we'll have something else. However, when you are discussing this law, then, of course, it is necessary to enter into a debate and discuss something that is actually very important, which is the functioning of the gas sector, or even the organisation of the gas market. When you look at Croatia a little bit, whether we see it from the inside or look at it from the outside, I look at it in a relationship I always have to look at the interest of our citizens but the interest of our citizens is to develop industry, to develop production, to develop economies and economies that evaluate Croatia regardless of whether it's from the territory of Croatia or from the outside, they talk about three facts all the time. They say that in Croatia, the tax system is such that very often changes and that from the moment they decided to enter a project to the end of the project, their tax system changes, so it's like changing the rules of the game and telling someone "let's go play handball", you end up saying, "so we didn't play handball, let's play basketball." The second is about working legislation that says it's not liberal enough, that it's not clear enough and the third thing, they've been warning energy all the time. For any serious investment, a serious project, we must clearly be defined as having a continuous supply possibility and so must be said in terms of prices. And in relation to this law it should be seen as the predecessors before me have spoken of a few things. The first substance in the gas business, the functioning of the gas sector. The importance of safe and reliable production. And it's absolutely something that we first move with production, so safe and reliable production or have in the gas warehouse enough gas for what we need. Then the transmission system that must be made in a way that is and then ultimately supplies and distributions to the end of the consumer. How have gas networks developed in the past? They developed in a way that you developed industry, developed a gas network for that industry, and then at the expense of that gas network that was developed for industry, developed a gas network for households. And so the project of Dalmatia started in a way that was the idea that we had a gas power plant in Dalmatia, so it's a safe manufacturer and that at the expense of the gas power plant where we're going to pull that big pipe when we're talking about big and small pipes we're actually going to give gas and then we're going to develop a household. But what we really need to take care of, which is that things in the world at which I was educated were very slowly changing and today they change so quickly that what is worth today was not worth yesterday, and tomorrow it will be worth even less. So is this business when we talk about gas. Then the idea was that we had a stable supplier, that supplier goes from Russia so he'll make up for what we don't have, from the point of view of environmental protection, the gas power plants were absolutely acceptable, it's one big space and there's no impact on climate change when there's water, you don't have when it's CO2, when it's coal or something else. However, in Europe in particular, it has been shown that some gas power plants have been built and that, unfortunately, some of them have never been put into operation. And now we come to the fact that we have made one quality network, I speak the transmission network, and how high-quality the distribution network is, or in supply, depends on where it was created. And it's created in different ways, it's really created as a communal activity, and it's made municipalities and cities, and then it's transferred to the property of utility companies, and we really have a few suppliers on the market right now, so I say households and what we're going to stand for, and what I said, I'm going to repeat this time. Indeed to develop production that must be and develop what you have, so you can't in Croatia not know, uranium draws because we don't have it, but if we have gas then it's something we have and it has to be our comparative advantage, you have to develop it in a way that is safe, you have to develop it in a way that is an environmental office, so that's one part of it, and of course I absolutely stand up for it, and I think that's the market. Equally who will give me gas in my household, of course it is my interest to be as cheap as possible, but what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have a company in 100% ownership of the transmission system. So the transmission system really needs to be viewed as one big pipe, it's not easy to plan it, you know, it's not like a wire so then a little bit like that, these transmission systems basically go in the bodies on the highway or go... big roads do you just have to come to them and if there's some kind of haemaria then that has to be very serious and that transmission system has to be in 100% state ownership. But what the state needs to take care to maintain, to invest in it and to rent under the most favourable conditions that they are. We come of course and it's impossible to get into this debate up to two topics, one topic is LNG terminals. I'm sorry I have a long memory of you, but I guess now that I remember better what happened 10 or 20 years ago, and not what happened this morning or yesterday about the LNG terminal, we've had a hell of a lot of discussion. We remember the times when there were different ideas. There was an environmental impact assessment that I would appreciate that for the first time was an environmental impact assessment when associations were organised, when it was a debate on tankers coming to the Adriatic, when it was a debate on ballast waters whether it was the same thing in the Adriatic when it was in the Mediterranean, let's take it from some water-related processes. The Mediterranean Sea is a small sea, and the Adriatic Sea is a bay of water compared to it all together and already when a tanker comes to the Mediterranean Sea and with the currents that it is, no one prevents us from bringing something he will not bring to the Adriatic. I remember these big debates, those stories that are always with us, of course, turned into some political stories. But let's see where we are now. The LNG terminal is a project that the EU recognized as a project and I would distinguish it from a few things. The first thing that is our interest to make it from the aspect of environmental protection the most acceptable, that it has all the elements to have in a way that is acceptable from the aspect of environmental protection, that we have all the fuses that we need to have and the other thing, the way to finance. The way the LNG terminal is financed by the EU is part of the funding, but part of the funding will not be extremely important and extremely important in some political decisions. And of course this is the topic that will be discussed, the topic that will be discussed not for the space in which it is, but then you should have all the arguments or should see arguments that speak for and speak against. When anyone asks me if I'm for any investment for or against, I never say and I can never say for or against you have to see all the elements. You must sometimes see what is the ultimate goal of this investment, whether the ultimate goal of this investment is just to make comparisons with highways, if we had looked at the economic elements of the highway to Split, it would not be. And you remember that crazy thing when we made a part of the highway from Karlovac to the River and three strips, a dog when the crashes started, and I don't know how many human lives were lost, and then we paid it twice as much. So that's not the difference between the three strips and the four that were, we forgot. So you should always look at the ultimate goal and look at the final goal that is LNG terminal and for this ultimate goal should be decided. If I should decide at this point, it seems to me that he is better on land than at sea, but I have too little, too little data to say absolutely what it is, but he needs to be looked at with several aspects, which means in space, which means in terms of environmental protection and what he means in terms of the economy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And I come now, of course, when you're discussing any law then you go much wider than this law, and now that we're discussing this law, that law simply doesn't have to look at it, you should really look at it through the way that Croatia has some specificity, that we had one pilot project in 2014, that we were still told in 2017 about energy that is extremely important from the EU aspect and when we became a member of the EU we got some rights, but we got something and we got a commitment and what this law should look at should be looked at in terms of customer protection. You saw what happened to electricity, we all got electricity or most of the households from HEP, and then some others showed up on the market, and people were going over those other people, because they thought they had a choice or they thought they were better off, that they were cheaper. So what happens again? They're dissatisfied there. Some go back to HEP, some go somewhere else. It's the same way to look at it with gas. It's simple that our citizens, therefore, have the right choice and choose, as they choose, they're little I don't know in Vipnet, so they're dissatisfied, and then they go somewhere else, and the cable TVs that I'm not talking about, that's what changes every little bit. So you are with Iskon, and you are with him, because you are dissatisfied. It just needs to happen with the gas, and it's gonna happen. So, some inevitable things happen, whether we, if we think about it or not, because the world goes on. If you're standing in a place, you feel further, it means you're going back. And as such, I appreciate that it's good, and I appreciate that we have this transitional period of 3 years. In which things, perhaps we'll agree a little bit and what's always important, it's always important to take care of our citizens, that the legal rules that are in the way that we make sure that there are no collections for our citizens, because you know, who always pays at the end? They always end up paying for those who are decently full of budgets, which are citizens. Therefore, this law, of course, challenges us to discuss other matters, and it is good. This law, I'm talking about that context of technical laws, which doesn't cause too much emotion in this assembly, and then someone in relation to, to which we usually have a discussion, about some other laws, all morning, doesn't. But it's about an important law, it's about a law that actually speaks about that gas market and we're definitely going to for a long time, colleague Dobrović about it, thinks maybe a little different, but I think that one other time we're going to be absolutely connected to gas as energy. And in relation to vehicles, no matter what the tendency of electric vehicles, which we have at all, I think that the gas, as well as something that will be used for, as a vehicle energy, will have to think about it well, because when we talk about electricity, then the question is how much we have. The question is we're going to give out of the gas that maybe electricity production that we're going to charge the motor vehicles, and there's another key problem with motor vehicles, which is batteries and copper, but not to go too far, because I'm going to go to another extreme, and the theme is gas. So, one correct law, we're talking about a transitional period of 3 years, but it opens up a series of topics that will certainly be discussed and discussed in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71019	Thank you, too. They are now at the gallery with us students and students of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, we welcome them... We have two replicas, first Mr. Bacic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, I answered the replica in the part where you spoke of building a terminal for... natural gas... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the terminal and your undetermined view of how and how you look at building a terminal, either the land or the floating one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You say you remember the debate that preceded some other energy projects, so you would say, primarily directed in that part, the Adriatic Sea, towards the island of Krk. And I remember and took part in the course of my studies for the project of Adria, which was wherever and where from the ecological and environmental aspects, more dangerous than the floating terminal, given the balances of water, which would bring empty tankers to the Adriatic to drag oil out of Omis. And I also remember, it's more fresh in my memory of the discussion of strategic environmental impact assessment in the part of the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, which is a project even where and where more dangerous than the project of building a floating terminal next to the Omis. So when all this is put on one side and on the other, the decision on whether it will be a floating or a land terminal, and I would agree with you to be happier for the land terminal, if you didn't know how long it would take to build a land terminal. That's why you're just talking about a floating terminal, like the first building of an LG terminal that's cheaper, it's faster to function, and it allows what's important, and that's where I would agree with you. This economic aspect that needs to be studied when we talk about it, which is that a new... The direction, which will lead to a reduction in gas prices in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71021	Answer, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71022	Thank you very much, just like my colleague Bacic. So the first decision we need to make is somehow, and I don't think there should be any big doubts here, and that's the LNG terminal decision. What we need to look at is the final economic effect we have and define it at some stages. But what always turns out to be a big problem, which is too little public participation. In fact, the public takes advance some attitudes and then it's very difficult to put those attitudes back. And I have this feeling that the public always takes their stand when they don't know too much. What's my experience, and that's every project that's today, is from a point of view, environmentals, from a whole range of impacts on space, climate change, incomparably better than a project that was 5 or 10 years ago. Because technologies have changed because the relationship to it has changed, because we have a lot more knowledge, and taking the stand for or against it is an absolute one orthodox attitude that I will never agree with, because I always think we need to know what the ultimate goal is, which is the ultimate meaning, which is what we get in terms of the economy, and then seeing what the interest of space is, the state to preserve what's worth, it's space, protection of the environment and everything else, but it's just how we need to develop the project. When you say in advance I'm one group says yes, another group says no. Usually this group against the incomparably stronger, louder, with the arguments they once did, sometimes this group isn't shut up because it thinks it's taking on something that's wrong. There should be done, as in some other things, some kind of mutual relationship for the simple reason to hear all arguments, and then the decision is based on arguments. Unfortunately, we often have decisions based on emotions, and often on the basis of especially if they are pre-election years and compared to something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71023	Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71024	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Anka Mrak Taritaš, I have answered the replica to reiterate what you said that every law we bring here in the Croatian Parliament must be kept in mind that it will reflect on the standard of living of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and on me and us from HSS worry about what will happen after this three years of transitional period, whether natural gas as energy will be cheaper for citizens and our industry or more expensive. Because we know this business model usually ends when it comes to large capital, not taking care of social sensitivity, but looking at profits, and we're afraid that energy prices will grow for both citizens and industry, and that's why it needs to be clearly said that people can prepare themselves. And you said you needed to invest, invest in what we have. Unfortunately, we haven't invested in what we have in the past, and we had an INA. We sold it to MOL. We did not invest more intensively in research and new gas fields, and we did not allow this regulatory part of our own production to affect the price for citizens to have cheaper energy, so that Petrochemy Kutina and other economies, companies do not pay for more expensive gas than they should have paid and thus make our economy more competitive on the market. So here's how we treat it says that we're too slow and suffer it's an example that the announced gasification of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship is connected to the gas from the Republic of Croatia in three months, six months. It's been a year and nothing's happening. We must also change our approach to the realization of such projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71025	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71026	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. It's really about a law that has no doubt, it's a law that will be applied in the next three years. After those three years, there's going to be something new. And then I always have that fear. We know there's going to be something in three years, but we're covering ourselves like a little kid on the head full and we think if we don't see someone who doesn't see us and we're not getting ready for what's gonna be in three years. What we need, we really need to see what's going to happen, and we all need to take care of what's the main job. The main task is this, and this is what you look at and when you look around you and other EU countries are actually in the final focus and should be citizens' interests, so that all their municipal services and energy are acceptable to them, to be easily available to them and to be as cheap as possible, and not to make it more expensive for them because of some investment and something that makes it more expensive. And that's something to insist on, which should be repeated and kept in mind that the legal regulations that come in and there's the role of our parliamentary deputies to point out, to discuss and actually to those citizens who listen to them will actually allow this law to exist at this point. Otherwise, I think that if we succeed in doing everything the law predicted we shouldn't get together and that's not how we should scare our citizens, but it's always something that we see. We make the law, the law is great, everything on paper is great, and in reality it's something different. So, you need to keep an eye on the reality. There is a great role for HERA in all of this together and we should also make sure that they are doing their job and that as soon as we see that there is an anomaly to it we also point out that if this anomaly is created, then those who are dealing with it will know why and remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71027	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to the next club of representatives, and that is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm just going to say that as a club, we're going to support this law. Of course, I'm also going to say we don't have a choice because we've come into a situation that threatens us with significant and great penalties if we don't implement it in a very short time. And that may be one question that I'm going to open up right now on this bill, but it happens to us too often. So, we often get into a situation where we have to bring something from today to tomorrow, so we can't have a debate. There's a public debate here, but it would have been much better if we had two readings, if we had more public involvement than we are in the situation, we're going to do it now, because there's a whole series of reasons, and you've got them saying that this should be settled now, it needs to be solved by 1.4, it has to be in force to just start a new gas year, new rules, etc. And that's something I'm going to put on now, that's the context of this law, but it's the context at all if we're talking about energy. So I think that in our country we lack one quality debate about what our goal is in energy, and that is then our goal in developing the country not only for the next 3 years or 10, but for the next 20, 30 years. We have European goals set. However, they are now more flexible and we will set our goals as part of this. And I know that now you have to do what we're gonna do and how we're gonna do, they're gonna do it. But in this context, we need a quality debate to know what we're trying to achieve, because every law in particular has many possibilities, and it means we're here now you've said three years of transition with it we'll hopefully give the opportunity to make some preparations. I'll tell you I'm very skeptical of that. So the directive was adopted in 2009, I think it should have been implemented when? In 2011, then for seven years these people did not, or those companies did not prepare. Will these three years add up to those seven be enough for them? I doubt it, because all of the meaning of the directive is that it will come sooner or later. So that's what I'm saying about this one projection of the future that we all have to have together and that's especially visible when it comes to energy. Gas, maybe something less, but gas is very important in electricity absolutely, we need to know where we are, what we are going to and what is waiting for us and how to deal with it. So I'm skeptical about whether these companies we've given to prepare will be prepared in these three years. Liberalisation, it was drawn in 2009 and it is something to come, we agreed to it when we joined the EU with all the good and bad things. It is always good in the big market, and when the market is large, we can safely talk about a reduction in prices, that is to be expected, in a small market it is questionable what it will bring for consumers or citizens. And that's something we need back in the country. We should have one vision and I know that it is impossible with 100% certainty, but it would be good to have a price forecast and what will happen when certain stages here are realized. We here have a prediction in the law shouldn't lead to an increase in prices, ok. We shouldn't, well, we don't have any basis for that. I'm telling you right now it's a feature in many laws, but somewhere we have to start, and this is your laws of energy is a good thing because we can find the bases, other countries are doing them, and let's make a step here to make them as good as possible, so we know what's going to happen to us because every element is going to bring something. My colleague Dobrović was talking about smart numbers, and here I am now going to say what I said, every law is a possibility. We should have installed them here, charged someone with funding, but over 10 or 20 years, you've achieved savings, synchronization in consumption, and I don't know how to develop some segment of industry. So what I'm saying is that it was a possibility and whether we should use it or not, we should analyze that we know what we're getting, and what we're not because it goes much wider than just passing this. My colleague Shuker spoke and I think it's an important issue and he's going into strategic thinking again, not only did he say but many others are, it's infrastructure and it's this return between market and regulated segments in energy, now we're talking about energy. I see Croatia as a country where this basic, we are talking about transport, it is owned by the state, but we will eventually be asked about distribution networks because if we want to develop a country that all citizens have the same option then it is again a game with a big and small market and how much a distributor in one small, small community power will even invest in development when there are no consumers and whether citizens in that area are more threatened or even more evicted because they have no interest, it will be more natural for them when it becomes on the market, that is how it is. And that's the one thing where we as a state needed to see to what extent we want to get down into ownership to invest in infrastructure and to give citizens equal service everywhere. That's something we didn't determine, we said ok. That's where we're gonna stop, if we're going down. I think we should talk about it a little bit lower. Here's one thing to think about, it's up to you, so in the article related to what I'm saying, in Article 80, that's before, there's nothing changing, but we have the possibility of direct accession and now we have three categories that can be directly connected. However, by allowing a direct connection that is logical, we must be aware that we are weakening concessionaries in these areas because they will get less, less will be able to invest in the network and will transfer the burden more to the citizens. It was by a government regulation that they too had to pay something, and I would suggest that you consider whether you would here and prescribe that the Government can and those who are directly connected to commit to the network where the salaries are located and by some formula it has existed so far, you know what it is like to be someone else, but it's a good thing because then they participate. And I know someone's gonna say you're burdening the industry, that's true, but they're participating the construction of the network where they are. It's now a question to whom we're going to switch to industry or construction, but it's something that can be solved by this law again, but we need to decide which direction we're going to go in. This is the thing I'd ask you to think about, we might put the amendment in that direction, but it's something to see. I'm saying, we had a solution to the regulation whether we go with it or not? The strategy, colleagues also talked about the Interconnector that we funded it and how it was financed by the Hungarians in the end, is something that often happens to us. And I'm going to put it here, obviously, this debate of ours can't go away without talking about the gas terminal, so I'm going to look back when everyone's already here and I think we need to be realistic again. So it's a security issue of supply, let's not have the illusion that it's a commercially profitable job because it's not. I'm very skeptical whether we'll ever find an investor who'll invest in this because EU-level usability is 20%, 21, I think that Italian across the street is there somewhere it's about 20 percent so that tells you how little capacity is involved, that gas is usually more expensive, as a rule, it's more expensive, but we're a country that's one of the tasks of the state is security of supply to citizens. But we do not need to be hypocritical in doing so, if we say “security is important, ” then safety costs. And we have to be prepared to pay for it. The countries up in Eastern Europe that built it, they pay it, they invest everything and pay it because it's not commercial and it's going to happen to us here. It's good that we get 27% of Europe, I think it is, and it's great, but I think the first step is not to talk about what it will be like, floating, not floating, but simply we have to define ourselves in our strategy what we want. If we need it for sure, I think we need it, then we'll build it, but then that means if there's no investor, we'll have to pay for it ourselves. There's no third. And let's not get carried away if it comes, great, but if it doesn't come, we have to be prepared because otherwise we're building a strategy on the wrong set, that someone's gonna come to finance it and it's gonna be great, and what if it doesn't? Are we ready to finance? That's one question that you must ask as executive authority, we, as legislators, must give an answer. My point is that it is yes, and someone might say no, but we need to define that because that is the practice, the practice is that it is not worth it at this point. And it probably won't pay off in the long run. But you need security, and that's why we need you. After that, there comes this ecological aspect, and for that I'm not an expert, and that's really something if we're already going to be a security matter, then we really need to choose what's most eco-friendly because then there's no price, we're managing space in the most quality way. So this is just an example of how when we talk about one segment, it stretches into a whole series of others. Croatia is fortunate that in European terms, in fact, in relation to other countries, we stand very well as far as gas is concerned. We're thinking in the upper half of the countries that meet their own needs. We're about 45 to 50%, depending on how when, and you have countries that have 100% nothing or nothing. The whole of Europe is about 70 percent, so we're fat above the European average and that's one advantage we need to use. If we need security to go pick it up, let's go pick it up. But we need to talk about it without saying figs in our pocket because if we do, then we're going to go all the way to the citizens who won't remember us well when they pay for it, but if they do, we need to tell them why they're paying. So they don't have any shortages. And that's a good thing, but then we have to tell them. So, the law we support, we'd prefer if we had one more quality debate, I think we'll discuss the amendments to the law very quickly because I believe that at Union level there will be a quick change, I say it took us seven years to implement this. Now all this is going a little faster so you expect that maybe even before the transition periods expire, something new will come along. Otherwise, through the Energy Union, you know that one of the things that is being set there is exactly the implementation of existing laws, so they are being implemented to the end, and that commission is going to go to the end, and that's why it's good to do this, but we're going to get to the next stage very soon, and that's a step further. And there we will have two schools where we as a country will need to define ourselves. One is a school, I was talking about security that says security is going to regulate the market, it's one school, let's say it's western, more Western countries are adapting to it, and the other is that there's actually no security until the end, and you know that the debates are big and they're going to have to be run here. This law is harmonized, it goes beyond that, but the next phase is to what extent the market can give us in a small country what it can give the big country. Especially in terms of security. And that's where I get to own the infrastructure, etc. And that's the debate that's going to have to take us for energy and energy here to wait relatively soon because it's going everywhere. And that's your debate within the LNG. So here, thank you very much, I won't be long. But I have to think about these fees for those who approach directly, there was a government regulation that had been dealt with before, maybe it wouldn't be a bad way to put one legal possibility that the government could arrange it with its regulation, pay compensation, then the government could say how much it would be, but that way it would help that local concessionaire that needs to develop the network, we want to develop a network, but if you move this main one out of it, there's nothing to do with it, it's going to transfer to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71029	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71030	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr Milenic, in this debate you also referred to the construction of a floating LNG terminal, we know that the Mayor of Komadin from your party is highly opposed to the construction of a floating LNG terminal, also the head of the municipality of Mirela Ahmetovic, also from your party. My question is do you, as a party, as a SDP, have this attitude against building a floating LNG terminal or is it actually some independent attitude of theirs and when the lex specialis law comes here on the agenda of the LNG terminal you intend to introduce, will you be against that law or for?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71031	The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71032	So, I'll start with this second part. If we're against the law, we'll see what the law says. So the law isn't just going to solve this question that you asked, it needs to solve some of the questions that I've raised today, so even if we need it, let's do it first. Secondly, in all of this, you have to consider not only what is said by local self-government and people living downstairs, because when we say something from Zagreb to someone "you'll get it", and it doesn't suit him, it doesn't sit well with me, as if someone comes to me and imposes something. So yes, I think the local self-government that is against has very good and strong arguments and I expect that we and in the debate as such will accept and represent them. I can't tell you here right now because we haven't taken a stand. So I'm talking here about this law, but it's something that's absolutely not just now because they're SDP, but that should be considered. Because you arrange someone's life where he spends it, where he lives by intervention us here in the Parliament. So let's see what people want. Maybe it's more expensive, but if it's better, then let's get to it. I'm up for it. But I'm saying, let's leave it when it's time to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71033	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71034	Thank you very much. My colleague Milenić, I have spent a lot of time in my replicas so far talking about this infrastructure technically, because I think it is one of the key tools that Croatia can arrange some of the things you were talking about. However, in my individual debate, I will look back at the other part of the infrastructure that is just as important, which is administrative infrastructure. Because the law was made, and I can even say more than well at technical level. However, the issue of its implementation more or less has been highlighted by all the club representatives so far. So when we talk about administrative infrastructure, then we don't need to... for what is very often heard when debates are held in the Parliament and otherwise on the budget and otherwise on the cost of the budget, when literally these independent regulatory agencies are being spit out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remember it's 2012. HERA of an independent and financially independent regulatory agency due to the need for budgets and a nicer picture than the deficit included in the budget. But now from this and from the liberalisation of the electricity market, without talking about oil, it shows what the role of HERA is. And all of what you've been saying in principle is the job of HERA because HERA was founded for it. These independent regulatory agencies have just been established to regulate the market independently of political pressures and the logical thing is, if you are in a closed or semi-closed system, if the legislator allows you to directly connect, that you cannot achieve this direct connection without paying taxes, because these are the fees paid by all users of the network. And that's why he's coming back to the beginning. It is therefore very important that this network remains one of the largest in state hands, and the other part in the hands of the local self-government unit. And if we can unite that, then we can say that we made a good first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71035	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71036	I have nothing to say but agree with you. It's not easy to admit, but you're right. I agree. On one side and around the role of HERA. Of course, there we can always talk about the regulator on a small market. The regulator on the big market as well as all is a single story, on a small market is always a bigger problem. Not just with us, it's so everywhere. I would add one more thing here, and I agree with the infrastructure, and that's why I said that the state should even consider whether it will go below this transport system because not every local self-government will be able to finance itself, which means that we will have differences. One citizen will have access, the other won't. And I expect by the principle of solidarity that the state should intervene there whether through a fund where it will equalise or not, it is more your profession, but that it should intervene lower than that. But the other thing is, as far as the promoter is concerned, what we're dealing with, and I'm going to give you a third problem, and that's legal. You spoke infrastructure technically, you spoke administratively,... And I would suggest that you consider it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not usually for special laws, but we in energy infrastructure have a big problem, because it goes according to the general rules of the Property Act primarily, when we talk about ownership-legal relations and the time and how it was created, it was created in another time. It hasn't adapted to this one here. And you're in a situation now that development often stops you from doing that. And I think that we should think about whether or not we should cut some things in there and give ourselves two, three, four years to work it out, even if we pass a special law, but to form a infrastructure not just here. It's your business and the road. I won't even talk to you about the power lines. So that's a big problem where we're going to bring on this high-level law And we won't be able to get them through just that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] That's the third segment to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71037	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71038	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milenić, I don't know. I've said it here many times. Maybe I'm lonely in that. I was surprised this morning. I asked my colleague what he was doing. I was surprised, so he says he defends the law. As he defends the law, he's from environmental protection. I got a little confused. I still don't think these two things should be in the same ministry. I might be lonely here. We want to be independent energy, we don't want to, but everything bothers us. We don't want a hydropower plant, a thermo, a nuclear power plant, and we're not even bothered by the windmills now because they have a bad influence on birds. So on the one hand we want independence, on the other hand the truth is, we want to protect the environment, the area. Perhaps this ministry should then, what I have warned at this transitional period for three years, perhaps include the Ministry of Demography. So we have a serious problem. Maybe it doesn't seem right now. At the time when I was working on designing gas installations for a man in a household in the house, he said I want a gas tap here in the middle of the yard. It was a little funny to me. He needed that gas. So people need gas, but in certain quantities that you're talking about here, it's hard for us to balance with the system. Balance with the system should not only on the production side of the supplier but also on the consumer side with smart numbers, education and everything. And I think that's where the story's going to be, and in the end it's going to come down to that, that those who have an interest there will go as if they were liberalising rail services, those directions that are interesting there will be going, and here at the gas installations. Where there are consumers, where there is interest, they will seek concessions, where they will not seek concessions, and they should invest in these distribution networks because many are in a pretty bad situation. They own the JLS now, but the question of the future is how they're actually going to be tempered, so to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71039	The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71040	Thank you very much, that I'm also skeptical in the development of many areas and I think that's a big problem. I never did that if we decided on a market approach he should be marketable, so, always someone should pay. But if that local self-government can't, that's where I see the state's mission on the principle of solidarity, to compensate and to jump in. And that's why I said, I think the state should find, mechanisms, to lower itself right down to local distribution, because we're going to stay in a whole series of areas without it. It's just not gonna pay off. And that's something we can never say, so we'll regulate the price. I'm not up for it. I'm up for it, if someone, if you can't and if you need help finding the mechanism, but the price has to be clean. Even though you regulate it, you have a problem. You really have a problem, because then nobody's acting more markety. You should go, that's the price, but to those citizens or areas where it can't be, it's just not worth it, it's too high. You need to find a solidarity mechanism to help them. So, that's, I see that approach. Because if we say, everyone's gonna be low somewhere, who's gonna cover the difference? It's always someone to pay for it. That's how it's always been. What you said, if it all costs, if we want and we have a vision, that we have a country that will be, that will protect its environment, so, the country that I would like, it will cost us, it's more expensive. Well, more expensive is your energy from a renewable source than coal, that's it. That's what you pay for. But that's what we have to tell the citizens, we pay it more, but we get it and we get it. So that's where you need to get away from the floscule, because it's pure mathematics. We have to buy that gas somewhere. And if it costs so much on the market, you have to pay it so much, but if you can't pay it, you have to compensate it another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71041	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Milenić, you were talking about the need for strategic access, the realization of energy projects, and in this context, you were talking about whether or not we need an LNG terminal, and you say if we need it, and we don't have financials coming from the private sector, that the state has to do it on its own. However, I would agree with you in part that the energy strategy must address the issue of meeting Croatia's energy needs, if the scale of Croatia can be independent as a state in terms of using energy sources. But I would say that, before a certain time, even in the mandate, while you were a minister, we were discussing a strategy for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which the strategy has prescribed and defined, in this location that we are talking about, in Krk, building storage facilities for LNG terminals. So as a state, we've been determined to build LNG terminals. We can tell if that's the space that's meant by the strategy itself by floating the terminal or if it's a land terminal. But in any case, as a state, we have defined ourselves, because if we hadn't written it in the most important document that regulates the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, then it clearly defines the main infrastructure corridors, including an energy infrastructure facility such as the LNG terminal. So, we've come to terms with that, in that it's already... Location permit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as strategic documents are concerned, they are determined and they have declared that the terminal is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71043	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71044	I agree, however, today when we talk about it, we say we got 27% of EU funding for the first phase, it's actually floating, if we go into something else, it would be smaller, the question would even apply to it. But today we are still talking about finding a commercial investor, I was talking about it. So, I expect us to strategically say whether we need it or not. If we need it from a security point of view, I think we need it, then that means we're going to build it regardless of this commercial part and we need to tell the citizens, because they're going to pay it eventually. I mean, it's just like that. We're going into the project, without defining ourselves, let's say, right now, that applied and then, without defining what he's bringing us. Because we talked all the time, we're gonna sell it to somebody else. At this point, it's not being sold. And that's how it is. The prices in Asia are so high, it's too expensive and it doesn't sell, but we need security. So we're just talking about not creating some illusion with the citizens. As far as strategic thinking is concerned, that's what I've told you on the example of this law. In 2011, we had to bring what we bring in 2018. 7 g. We have lost or received, as anyone looks, in liberalization and preparation for the next steps that will come. This was related to the three governments, four. So, don't refer to one, I'm saying it's so. If we had a vision then, and we knew what we wanted, we wouldn't be talking about this preparation for three years now, so on and so forth. So it's more than we miss. We come into the corner and we say okay, now we have to because we've been squeezed, and we don't really know what we're getting from it. Because if we knew what we were getting, we would have done it in 2011, 2012. 2013, 2014 2015 2016 or 2017 would not wait 2018. So that's something we're missing. Although we may have a strategy, but the fact is something that's gonna happen, we're seven years late and we're still gonna be late for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71045	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall, in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71046	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We live in times when everything around us isn't safe, and that's why we have to strive for this so-called. energy independence. However, our country is not going towards energy independence, but rather towards increasing dependence. Dependence on credits, dependence on energy, food dependence, we import even kuna banknotes of our currency, etc., etc. What's the key problem with gas supply is that our country is not leading politics in its interest, we're going back to the beginning of the whole story that many of you are avoiding, which is that we're importing gas at four times the price of the Russians than we are selling to the Italians, and nobody here can argue, and that information here is undeniable. The second data that is also undeniable is that the gas that would have been planned to be imported through LNG is more expensive. So the gas we're ordering from the Russians is from 180 to 190 dollars if I'm not mistaken for a thousand cubics, and LNG gas American, Norwegian who's already ingested its price is from 250 to 270 dollars for the same amount, means almost a third more expensive. Someone will say well, Mr. Pernar, why you're pointing it out now, so I point out because in Croatia, there's a collective madness, a madness to say, that's what Racan's government still did at the time of the SDP, for something less than 70 million dollars, it sold the White Nights INA had in Russia. This oil field produces more oil than INA and MOL combined, so the economic damage is catastrophic and someone of course wonders well why INA would then go to sell it. So because the commission at that job was 20%, it means $14 million at least. The question is, who got a commission to sell the White Nights? We didn't know until today. Here's another example, INA, after what's worth a lot of farts for a little, goes into another investment, including gas and that in Syria, means instead of investing in the development of wells in Croatia, etc. We're going to Syria, okay? We're going to Syria. But what is INA doing again? The moment he has the right contracts, when he has the fields that make the profit, what does the INA do? pulls out of these fields, however okay if the security situation is bad I understand that decision, but INA does not withdraw in a way that says we can no longer exploit gas or oil there, means with economic arguments but under the influence of Vesna Pusic and you from HDZ what does INA do? INA is entering a conflict with the Syrian government in some abstract debate whether there is democracy in Syria or not, completely ignoring its own economic interest. Well, INA isn't some society for the spread of democracy, so it's not about INA human rights like I don't know Transparency Internationale, Amnesty International, GONG, I don't know whether the election process is fair or not. No, INA deals with hydrocarbon extraction, so it's INA's job, but unfortunately INA hasn't dealt with it in Syria, and we're in a situation now that after we sold the White Nights for small cash, after we made the decision to sell Italians gas at four times the price of importing it from the Russians, we gave up fields in Syria. So are you aware how much money is invested there, who's going to answer for it? And then you bring one crown, one jewel and your politics and then sell it to the INA itself. What a top-of-the-line policy. I congratulate you all. [[Applause]] And at the same time you're telling us that we don't know how to operate, etc. Well, look, a little kid would know better than you and then the ones you sold it all to, then you're the first one to ruin what you could and then you sell it and then those Hungarians you sold it to, or MOL, what are they doing? Then they say we shut down the refinery of Sisak, we shut down the refinery. Then tomorrow you'll say it, and Petrochemy's no longer worth it. Here I can tell you one detail, if Petrochemy fails, and this policy that you're leading will be ruined, it's only a matter of moment, said Mr Horvat that we don't produce 80% of our gas but 50, okay, that's right, the production of domestic gas has been reduced due to the wrong policy of ours. But the question is, if Petrochemy fails, and it spends a third of Croatian gas again, we will be self-sufficient soon, then we will again produce 80% of our needs because the industry will be shut down. Petrochemy is a huge consumer of gas. And now the question is, what solution are you offering us to solve the energy crisis? Are you offering citizens the installation of solar panels with the subsidy to make the citizens independent or the state energy independent? No, you don't. Do you want to stop shutting down the mammalian refinery? No, I don't. Prime Minister Plenkovic says it's a business decision. It's a business decision. Do you want to say well with the Syrian government, Mr. President Al Assad, we are aware that we have made a mistake, we bet on your failure, on your fall, we see you don't fall, you don't leave the authorities, those we wanted to bring to power, you don't come to power, we're sorry, can we go back to those fields, no, you continue with the same story as before. A man would say maybe, here's a yellow detail. The price of gasification of Croatia is being discussed. The price is pretty high and we say we don't have enough money. Okay, and Gazprom comes to Croatia and says "Ladies and gentlemen, we offer that we will perform the gasification for free. So we're not asking you to do anything. Except keep buying our gas. Someone will say that gas is expensive or cheap, but it is currently the cheapest. We can deal with them, we can say if LNG gas gets cheaper, then that contract stops or you'll sell us gas at a lower price than LNG. So Gazprom is open to talks, to negotiations, it's people, you can always agree with people, but we on our part don't think human or economic but we think how? Ideologically. What does that mean? So that means we say no, you're the gentlemen from Gazprom, we just don't want to deal with you, you're Russians, we won't. Okay, well, here I am asking you about the citizens of Sisko. Imagine that Gazprom comes and says if we take over the INA, the refinery will continue to work. But you would still vote against it. Why would they be against it? Because you don't care if the refinery in Sisak works or doesn't work. All that matters to you is that you listen to letters from the State Department, from the U.S. government. So if the American government tells you to build LNG, that's the important thing, you'll build it. The fact that that gas is one third more expensive, that it releases 300 tons of varicine into the sea, which pollutes, etc., we don't care at all. The fact that the Russians might have had better control of INA than Hungarians, you don't care about that either. Why? Well, the U.S. government said you can't sell it to the Russians. And that's our policy. Our policy is actually that we don't have our own policy. Our policy actually comes down to two components. One component is influence from America, and the other component is domestic corruption. This mix of domestic corruption and influences from America leads to our making the wrong economic moves. The construction of LNG that we do not need, the withdrawal of INA from Syria, I repeat not for economic or security reasons but abstract political debates, etc. With such energy policy, Croatia will not get far. And you will also testify by shutting down the Sisak refinery and the Kutina Petrochem. You'll shut down the domestic petrochemical industry. It will be the final consequence of your policy. And the other consequences of your policy will be what you call price liberalisation. Or in translation, in the language of the people, price-gathering. That's what you're actually going to bring to our citizens. And the question is, will this bill make any difference so that these black hunches and prognosis don't come true? Yes or no? No, I don't. It's a key thing. And I'll give you another example. For a long time I remember, Iranian oil was 10 bucks a barrel cheaper than all the other oil suppliers. The Iranians sold cheaper oil. Do you think the Croatian government has said INA and listen gentlemen, we can buy cheaper oil, we have room to cut fuel prices for our citizens, etc. Or she said no, again ideological reasons, we won't buy oil from Iranians, no matter what their oil costs. Unfortunately, our government makes political decisions that are always at our expense and never look at the interests of our country and people. And the Living Wall is a political party that has not only the courage to say it publicly but also the political opposition. This means that they will vote against your policy, raise their voice against your policy, and the people will regain awareness of the consequences of your policy. And finally, I want to tell the Croatian citizens, you who, by your choice on the day of the election, decide what your personal future will be and not only on a personal level in terms of employment, etc., but also on the energy future of the entire society, will give you as individuals a more free or dependent, you will give the energy that you need to pay less or more, you decide in the elections. The Voice for the Living Wall is a voice for cheaper energy, a voice for greater your independence, and actually a voice against the influence of the outside and a voice for the market economy because what HDZ, SDP and their satellites offer, it is not a market economy, it is not a behaviour according to economic logic, it is not to buy cheaper and sell more expensive than buying from the Russians four times more expensive, so it is sold cheaper. It's the logic of HDZ and SDP. It's their market model, and then you're surprised when your heating bills grow. You get 1,000, two kunas, then or for the heat, etc. Don't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, but when the elections come, look at that ballot well and when you see SDP, HDZ, Bandic Milan 365, HNS etc. Remember, by rounding up these political options, you're actually putting yourself and your family around your neck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71047	Thank you very much. Your presentation sparked a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71048	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Pernar, I have entered politics from the private sector, and these are now almost seven years I have been sincerely favouring the private sector because I think that fighting for the private sector and entrepreneurs in Croatia is a struggle not only for all private sector employees, but also for all of us, as well as for keeping young people here in Croatia. However, you were wrong to say that ideology is not important, ideology is very important. Ideology and politics and the worldview are the foundation of every nation, every country or at least in the extreme state depending on the liberal democracy that governs the state, and your economy is the consequence. Now allow me three sentences or three details you mentioned in your speech. First I'll tell you Petrochemy won't fail, there's no need for us here in the Croatian Parliament to scare people in the Kutina. Petrochemy will surely survive. Petrochemy is a good business, and I hope you agree to let private capital save Petrochemy and manage it tomorrow. So that's one thing. Secondly, you may be surprised, but I agree with you about everything you said about Syria, the Syrian oil and gas fields may be the largest property in which the Croatian state or one company in which the state co-owner has outside of Croatia and that everything should be done to get them back under Croatian control and Croatian exploitation, not only because of those investments you mentioned well. And third, you're not even right about LNG. If you are in favour, as well as for Croatian national interests, the Croatian national interest is LNG and not only Croatian because Croatia has a broader responsibility in view of its geostrategic and geopolitical position. This responsibility is Central Eastern Europe. So, not only can we go through this project to impose ourselves as energy... and not only in energy, our potential to impose ourselves as leader of this part of Europe, but also in infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both energy and infrastructure are connected. In a way for business in a much wider space And for you, just the question of how did the prices of Russian natural gas fall in Poland and Lithuania after LNG terminals that are allegedly made have more expensive gas? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71049	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71050	Dear Representative Milosevic, it is very simple to answer your thesis. I'll go back to the LNG terminal. Here you tell us what the price of this LNG terminal is and what is the price of the gas that should come through the LNG terminal? Discard the numbers I said. I didn't come here pounding in blanks, I told you the number. 180 to 190 dollars for 1,000 cubics is Russian gas, and this one through LNG is US from 250 to 270 for the same amount. Disabling. Tell Mr. Pernar you're wrong. It's not more expensive for a third of the gas via LNG, but you didn't say that, you didn't deny it. You're saying that we'll be energy... So here in Lithuania, or Latvia, they built this LNG terminal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And do you think the local states are buying for a third more expensive gas or still importing Russian gas? Well, of course they're still importing Russian because it's cheaper. However, knowing the political logic of your political party and your energy policy wouldn't surprise me if you put that LNG into office, to really say let's buy American gas even though it's more expensive for a third. We're not gonna buy Russian gas, and we're gonna keep the citizens up for a third. That wouldn't surprise me, and in that case I guarantee that Petrochemy will fail. That's 100 percent, because you say she'll survive, survive at these gas prices, by these taxes you give, by this interest she's in charge of. So what energy subject like that could fail under such conditions? If it survives, it'll be the eighth wonder of the world, that's how much of Petrochemy's survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71051	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next up is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, for the individual debate, I appeared encouraged by the majority of the clear text of the law, but also by the debate that took place during the morning in one part of which the law regulates access to the market, suppliers, the position of HERA, but on the other hand, there were talks on construction in Croatia of LNG terminals, and this was the main reason why I volunteered for my discussion in order to make some of the concerns that were highlighted here this morning through the debate, and which in large part appeared about the construction of the terminal tried to explain in the part in which I was part involved in the adoption of acts that define the construction of the terminal, LNG terminal on Krk. In the first row there were talks about how appropriate documents at national level were not prescribed to detail how and how to deal with the construction of a terminal on Krk. And I would just remind that already, in July 2015, a local permit was issued for the construction of a terminal, though a land terminal, but still the document necessary and necessary documents in the Republic of Croatia was defined by the construction of a terminal for the intrinsic natural gas, in the first row of the spatial arrangement strategy that was adopted, as well as the spatial plans and spatial plans of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the Spacious Planning Plan of the Municipality of Omisalj. Clearly, I'm speaking in that part of it, I refer to the construction of the land terminal terminal, but through the possibility of a location permit providing a phase-building terminal in such a way as to make it a floating terminal in the first phase, and then later to be a land terminal. in this sense, the Government has already announced and I think that in the procedure of government bodies, the creation of a special lex specialis law that will define the handling of the floating terminal in such a way that it will be possible to enable in the space of the aquarium in front of Luke Omisalj, which is under the management of the Port Authority of Rijeka, to set up that ship that is practically a ship terminal. The law itself, as already stated in the announcement, would regulate the issue of compensation that would apply to the local self-government unit in 1/3 of the district self-government unit and in 1/3 of the state, because if the current law were respected and the lex specialis law did not go with the full income of concession from the maritime goods would be directed to the state agency or the Port Authority of Rijeka. What needs to be welcomed is certainly the approach to building LNG terminals because from all the experiences in the world, and especially in Europe, it is defined that building LNG terminals leads to gas security on the one hand and, on the other hand, to a fall in gas price through a new distribution direction that not only leads to competition but also to the fact that today on the world market, for example, Australia becomes the largest producer of ingested natural gas in the world, and thus a large part of the gas that has gone from Qatar to the Far East now new fact that Australia will cover in much of the needs of this Far East, this gas from Qatar and here from the Middle East will be directed towards Europe. Therefore, if other European countries, and we know that Italy and Slovenia already own a natural gas terminal in our neighbourhood, it is perfectly logical and reasonable that the Republic of Slovenia does so. On the other hand, there was a talk about how the terminal, which was a floating terminal in Latvia, was built that it did not lead to a reduction in the price of gas in Latvia, that is not true. Namely, I own an interview with an interview of the article, which was led by a commander of a terminal ship who, by the way, spoke about what happened in Lithuania with the construction of the terminal and who said there was a significant fall in the price of gas, thus fuelling up the gas after the construction of the terminal in Lithuania. Therefore, it is not true that building a terminal does not result in the cost of gas being cheaped. What we can accept is that further explanation is needed when it comes to the construction of the terminal and that floating terminal is a protection of the environment and it is clear that, in all future discussions on the justification of the construction of the terminal, there will be an environmental aspect in the first place besides the economic aspect which is unquestioned, and I do not think that here in the Croatian Parliament we should at all doubt whether it is on the economic side justified in that part, not even the local community or the County of the Primorje-goranska two on the need to build that terminal which should be built on land by their position. Therefore, it is necessary to refer specifically to this ecological aspect which is in a certain way the brakes in the views on the construction of a terminal by the local community. I have a few things to say in that sense. The first thing that we went through once as a country was a similar and we have experience in a similar project that talked about the possible impact on the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea in that part, which was related to the project of building the Adriatic Society when we talked about the construction of the entire project of the Adriatic Society would endanger the diversity of the Adriatic Sea in a way that tankers coming to Omishal would be filled with ballast waters and thus, by landing and changing the ballast waters in the Adriatic Sea, would undermine the diversity of the Adriatic Sea. It was one project that was tested, if I may say so, through environmental impact studies and another project which was also treated through a strategic environmental impact assessment was a project of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. I argue that both of these projects were in terms of a potential danger to the realization of the project we are more dangerous than the floating terminal planned here in Omisalj and it would be good to endanger these two fundamental aspects by the biodiversity of the sea, which is the melting of the Adriatic Sea in the part of Kvarner and, on the other hand, the release of sodium hypochlorite into the sea to further account. So I propose that the restoring ministry be actively involved in order to make these two aspects seem to me that the local community is concerned about building the floating terminal further. In fact, there are experiences, I mentioned earlier the experience that we have with the floating terminal in Lithuania, we have a similar terminal in Cyprus, we have terminals and in the area of the Adriatic Sea that belongs to Italy, so it is one experience that we can share with these projects that would certainly make a significant contribution to explaining to the local community and to all those involved in this process as much as and in what way a floating terminal or that ship, that the ship is being served as a warehouse from which gas-inflicted storage is then done, clearly in the freeway pipelines, gas pipelines, how much and how it can contribute to the cooling of the sea on the one hand and on the other side of the chlorine, how it can affect the destruction of plankton on that part. It seems to me these two fundamental questions, which the ministry should answer, when it comes to building, in my opinion, a justified good project, which is this floating terminal, which would still be in the first stage. The fact that the good side of this project is cheaper construction and faster construction. And we have been talking about building a terminal in Croatia for years, for many years. It was first discussed in 1995. Even at the time of the Matish government, 25 years have passed since then, we still seem to be wandering about how and how and when we're going to build this terminal. Therefore, now is the time to come, he can be quickly realized. As far as I have information, it's about 2 years or so. Europe has already provided over 100 million euros in grenades for it, so it needs the ministry to be further involved in the explanation, as well as in how it can potentially affect the environment. I believe that, with all the measures prescribed by the study, there would indeed be no more serious threat to the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71053	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71054	Dear Representative Bacic, my question to you is, are you in favor of democracy? Are you in favour of the right of citizens? If you are in favour of democracy, I am interested in the following, will you respect the opinion of the Municipality of Omisalj and the County of the Primorje Goranska, who voted unanimously against the meaning, unanimously voted against bringing LNG terminals. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague's name is Bačić, well, go ahead, forgive me.]] Or you'll say, we don't care what the Omisalj municipality thinks, we don't care what the coastal mountain county thinks, we don't care what 3.3. scheduled protest against the construction of LNG terminals, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71055	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71056	My colleague Pernar, what I think about protecting the Adriatic, I've spoken many times in this House, I've written an interpretation of the role of the government, when there was talk of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and certainly I'm one of those who very much takes care of the protection of the Adriatic Sea, and that's what I've been talking about, if you've been listening to, obviously you're not really listening right now, but it doesn't matter. Therefore, the law on spatial planning has been defined by the State's spatial development plan to determine which projects are of national importance. And clearly that in this business and in this project or specifically in this project, it is necessary to hear the thinking of both the County of the Primorian Mountain and the Municipality of Omisalj. On the side of what I think is an existing liquid terminal which is an oil terminal in the Omislje, where and where more dangerous, for the environment than the planned terminal for, floating terminal, I believe it is necessary and I said it is necessary for the ministry to insist on this, to explain to the extent that 2 fundamental remarks that go against the floating terminal, which is the cooling of the sea, on the one hand and on the other hand, the influence of chlorine on the whole process, indeed, could disrupt the diversity of the sea in the part of Krk and the entire Kvarner Bay. According to the experts who wrote, the study itself, it is said to be a minor influence, on the other hand, we heard what the unit of local and regional self-government is saying. So I said that the ministry, that the ministry is now adding to these views we hear from local self-government, explains how much and to what extent it affects and we have very much experience similar projects around the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71057	Answer, thank you. Replica, this, respected representative of Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71058	Thank you, colleague Bacic. I think the exact number is 25%. That's how much the price went down, by the way, so did my colleague Pernar's answer. That's how much the price fell... the gas in the north, or the northeastern EU, after the opening of the LNG terminal and all had phases, number one, which is to be first floating, because it is more efficient and cheaper at the start, less burdens the investment price, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here to say, no one is reasonable against the Russian land of gas and supplies and debates that fellow Pernar stands for, but we are for competition. So, for what we all stand for here, and some are called democracy, then with democracy, the market economy usually goes. So we are for competition and such energy, because in this way the economy, therefore, entrepreneurs, will benefit the most. From competition, people have always gone better, proven, in the last 100 years around all segments of industry. And at the end of the day, let the buyers decide, and the buyers will eventually decide which and how much gas they will buy, and in general which energy they will buy. So it's not just about the price of gas, it's about energy security and desertification. And finally, I am taking the opportunity even though it may not be appropriate, because this is what my colleague Pernar mentioned, but therefore, in the past and the town of Rijeka, in the past 26.7 years, the Primorian Mountain County has really shown all its skills and success in maintaining industry, which was once really powerful. So, if one is older and more experienced to correct me, if one county of Croatia by the sea had a very serious industry, then it was that space. Of all that, unfortunately there's nothing left. So, the authority of those there in Rijeka to talk about any industrial and energy project, there is no colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71059	The answer of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Milosevic, the fact is that we would all like economic growth, that we would like to build important energy economic operators, projects, but on the other hand, let it be in someone else's area, not ours. And this occurs all over Croatia, as soon as it goes into realisation of a project, suddenly a mass is created very quickly that individual projects of people who are trying to stop and in the beginning, I would practically say discourage, any local community, whether the state is going to go into the project. If that were the way to act and think, they would probably never do a single project. If he's in... A very large number of LNG terminals are built, a significant number of floating terminals, experiences from these countries, and all those bonuses that give LNG to the country of origin, and more importantly, to their citizens, I think would be sufficient reason to do so in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you mentioned a specific area of Krka, i.e. the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, then I argue that now with a refinery in Rijeka with an existing oil terminal on Krka, this terminal that would have been built and it would have been floating, in any case smaller hand in the eye if I could say so, the environment and the sea than the existing facilities in that county. Therefore, I believe that this is a good solution, but I am in favour of making sure that the maximum investors and the government are involved in the explanation that this on the one hand brings to the state, and on the other hand, as far as it is not such an environmental impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71061	Thank you. A colleague of Pernar's raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what did Bacic do to hurt the Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71062	I was going to say that my colleague Milosevic...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71063	.../Intruder Reiner: But you did not react to it, you responded to a colleague of Bačić./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71064	Well, it's up to each other because my colleague Bacic returned the replica to Mr Milosevic and the replica applied to me. I just wanted to say that this LNG project is so good that even HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71065	.../Intruder Reiner: And what article is pardon, injured?...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71066	...in the county voted against. I just wanted to respond to the replica because it was directed...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71067	.../Intruder Reiner: You can't answer, you've hurt the institute./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71068	And I didn't know otherwise, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71069	You can't, I'm telling you about that warning. You can't do that, I'm asking you not to do that. The next replica is the respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71070	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, therefore I agree, the LNG terminal or UPP, is so, it belongs to me in projects of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia and should work to build it up. So, apart from diversification, besides strengthening there are great potentials to strengthen our shipyard in the area, therefore the wrong technique, because in maybe 10 years we'll have banking and the blue Mediterranean could be the one by which ships will sail exclusively with pure fuels. But let me go back to the study you mentioned. We need to be very careful when talking about whether some influences are negligible or not. And someone can write it as a study author, one way or another. But I personally belong to those who are critical of that part of the study that neglects the influence of chlorine. There's no reason to use chlorine as a biocidal product, it's the simplest and cheapest evaporation technology of that infused gas, we have in any case reason to take another, even more expensive solution because the purest Adriatic, clean sea as sure as you agree is invaluable value. Once that's destroyed and we have examples from some parts of the world where, with a poor previous assessment of this or one's damage, it makes a disaster so that when techs come to me and say anything, but we don't add anything, we're only doing electrolysis, but it's in situ production of chlorine and all those processes that go after it, we have to be careful. And then there'll be no hysteria in public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71071	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dobrović, I followed when you led this part of the construction of the terminal as a resolute minister and I agree, and then you claimed, as you now claim, that it is useful both for diversification of supply and for very likely, and I am also sure, the reduction in gas prices. As far as environmental impact studies are concerned, as far as I'm aware, I've been reading part of that study, but I've also contacted, regardless of whether it's land or floating, the warming of gases that at -160 are both seawater-based and other cases. So, in that part, we couldn't avoid regardless of which location I was at, says, I'm not an expert, what I've read, could not be avoided, a little warming, say insignificant warming, must because the gas is heating up so clearly, it wouldn't be in a tighter state anymore. And the other thing, what you said, regardless of what he was on land again, was at sea again, the dispersion of pipes and joints, would come from this fact that the sea is used and therefore it is said to be used somehow by means of an agent that will disinfect so as not to cause growth. I agree with you, if there's any other way, if there's another compound, and it's not sodium hypochlorite, I think we'd all be satisfied, but I'm afraid it's possible to find some kind of means that would be absolutely neutral when it comes to the sea. So I've read it that way and now here and I'm discussing if there's any other way than chlorine that could prevent... these compounds would be good anyway and that's why I said that the government is the one that needs to be involved and more talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71073	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd actually like to briefly just highlight three important topics today. First we talk a lot about renewable energy sources, and I think everyone reasonable will agree that renewable energy sources are the future, we all want this future to be today, not for a few decades. However, everyone, and the other day I had a personal opportunity to talk to an electric car manufacturer, says we've been talking for decades. Now that we are relatively small economies, actually a very small economy in global frameworks, to be precise, then we need to develop renewable energy sources, but we also need to worry about the oil and gas market. And that's actually today's topic. I am not an expert on oil and gas, but what my colleagues have told me is that gas is increasingly energy today in the 21st century and thank God that Croatia has it, unfortunately I think our potential is even better at exploring oil and gas than we are currently using, but there is 50% good, unlike the vast majority of other natural resources, we stand perfectly with gas. The second topic of this energy hub, so Croatia has a geostrategic position that really enables not only energy but infrastructure to be imposed in South East and Middle Eastern Europe as a place to distribute both goods and energy into the space of Central Eastern Europe. And for this reason, I stress, not only because of this, but also because of this LNG terminal is important on the island of Krk, because it is this project that positiones Croatia on that market in Central Eastern Europe that brings diversification of energy supply and security. I am sure that not only for Croatia but long-term for the whole area, bringing competition will have an impact on energy prices. In this sense, of course, it is not only important for LNG in Krk, there are projects such as TAP or IAP extensions, etc. The Adriatic-Ionian gas supply route from Central Asia and still thank God we have a strong HEP and the Adriatic pipeline, and INA are all companies that can be in the wider South East Europe area and that will be forced in some way us as an energy hub in Croatia. And thirdly, I hope that we will slowly stop looking at the private sector and in energy. Somehow, I have the impression that even in this assembly, private sectors would only be intended, I don't know, to produce textiles or something less important in the entire civilised world, both in the east and west, the private sector is present in energy, I think it is welcome in Croatia. Each country and our country have a lot of tools to manage their energy as well as any other policy. Ownership does not define policies, ownership does not define strategies, but states define strategies and policies, and then within these frameworks the private sector can move both foreign and domestic investors, and this applies not only to energy, it is universally valid. So in this assembly, laws are passed in the ministries of rules governing each market, today we are a full member of the NATO Alliance and the EU, and as such we have many rights, but we have no obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71075	Thank you very much. At your presentation, it caused two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71076	Dear Vice-President, distinguished secretary of state, distinguished fellow Milosevic. We all agree today that Croatia has one extremely important geographical and geostrategic position, especially when we talk about energy, when we talk about oil, about natural gas, or about gas pipeline. about the pipeline. When we talk about gas and other energy, we are unfortunately witnessing today that some countries like Syria, for example. It's because they're extremely rich in this energy that they're really suffering, it's hundreds of thousands of dead people who are no longer with us today just because their country is rich in energy. But here I didn't quite notice that there's a very important topic being talked about, and it's related to this, and that's the question of our INA or MOL. I am here from this place telling INA as one strategic project should be returned to most Croatian property as soon as possible because everything the Hungarians have promised or signed to do at the time they entered the INA property. They did not invest in infrastructure, they did not modernise Croatian refineries, but they are now before closing, I would say, they fired six thousand workers, and when we talk about those energy reserves that Croatia had today, they are at 60% of the former reserves. So I think that when we talk about gas and energy, first of all, we need to talk about the Croatian oil company, we need to talk about the priority of protecting Croatian energy interests, and we can only do this through the return of INA as the Croatian oil company's headquarters in Croatian hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71077	Thank you very much. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71078	Yes, obviously this colleague, Zekanovic, will disagree. I just said that, and that is that every serious state has enough tools at its disposal that private capital is not an obstacle to managing strategies and energy policies. So the fact that MOL, which we agree on, has not fulfilled its obligations, not only the promise but the obligations of the contract, that is, the problem, but that is not the reason why we are not looking for a serious strategic partner who will meet our expectations about INA, the Croatian largest company is INA, but there are many other companies that, in terms of importance, could be compared to Croatia, but that is not why we are running from private investments, and investment and the origin of investments should be controlled. What I personally think should be a limit, the border should be a monopolitical infrastructure given our size and strength, given our past decade if you want and centuries old, then I think we have reason to pull that line, and that is that all that infrastructure is is a pipeline, whether it's a pipeline, whatever it is or a power line, it should be 100% state-owned. But in terms of business, what works on the market is whether it's soup production, whether it's oil production, whether it's chicken production that's marketable, globally competitive or uncompetitive. Whether the state will own or co-owner it, trust me, and we have experience and 25 years does not determine the company's success. We have a very bad experience, thank God. So this property cannot and must not be prerogative in this sense that the state manages its resources, that the state knows what it does, that it has its strategy, that it has its own policies, and within that private capital must... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71079	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Milosevic, we're a little tired of beating ourselves, that we have a great geostrategic position, that our ports are in the best places in Europe, that we can, that we have the largest cereal in Europe, that we can feed all of Europe, that we have this, that we have that. Oh, I'd just like to hear one comment from you. You were the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of some kind of economy, for investment. So in one of the previous governments. I just don't know what we'd like? Should we start working, earn income, provide for our future generations, therefore the conditions for staying in your country. In fact, others can live in such a rich and beautiful country as we are by potential or we'll still fight and starve on our hair and beat on our shoulders and say we're the best, the smartest, we just don't know how to take advantage of it. I think we're here right now in this debate on that lead. Are we going to be what we like to say to ourselves or are we not going to be? Are we going to be an energy hub? Do we want to ensure, therefore, that as a small market of some kind of security, some kind of security locks, that we can control prices, that we can provide our economies and citizens with a favourable energy price, or we can continue to tell stories and create myths about ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71081	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71082	Thank you, colleague Kleman. Well, I used to say in the assembly that they wanted to admit me or not, but there are rules to the game. The rules of the game exist in everything, including in the economy. So, we simply, if we want to be more successful, know what to do. One part of me said it a little bit, and that's what I think we need to release private capital, and we need to know how to manage strategies, have strategies, manage strategies and policies. That's what the state's business is. However, what will happen in the coming years of the last decades is already present, but now it will be more and more present when you have somehow pulled me by the tongue. Governments and administrations must understand that they are also in competition especially today when we are a full member of the EU. So, not only do companies compete for various markets or customers and governments compete, and now we feel in our own skin that we are competing for our own people to stay in our own country. So each and every subsequent administration must be aware of the responsibility, and I think President Trump's tax reform will have far-reaching consequences for both the EU and the EU. So I think one of the consequences of this tax reform and the return of an estimate of about two trillion dollars from around the world to the United States. Of course it will feel in the EU, and then I hope that the EU will come to mind that we need to be more tax-competitive, that we should have a generally better attitude towards the private sector, encourage young people to entrepreneurship, innovation, research, development and so on and so forth. Those are the rules of the game, pretty simple. Now we can hide behind the bushes or hide in the woods and say it's none of our business, but it's just not gonna get around us. So technology goes forward, people learn, learn more and more. The whole world is kind of connected more and more, and that's what we have to find, and I think we have what you said, that we have that potential, we just need to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71083	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71084	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. I signed up for this debate because I think this is a very important law. On the one hand, it concerns many citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand it has a certain financial value. The estimate is that this gas market carries somewhere a value of about 13.6 billion kuna according to what we could see. The assessment is also that according to the audit, the value of our supply network or transport system is somewhere over 3 billion, 3 billion and 200 million kuna. We don't have any data or at least I haven't found the value of these distribution networks, which are owned by units of local self-government, private ownership or mixed. And suppose it's the same thing as three billion kuna. So it's about large infrastructure capacities of high value and, of course, a business that has great economic significance. What has shown the liberalisation of the market in the area, the business area means in entrepreneurship, however, has shown that certain results exist. It is true that few are paradoxical, but of course because of the regulated price of the domestic market that our price in gas entrepreneurship is higher than in the countries in the environment, something higher, and our households are lower. What I'm worried about is what I've said in replicas is certainly this transitional period of three years. The Secretary of State explained that this is actually the limit that the European Commission has given us, because we are expected to do so in this sense we have already received a pack of why we have not already done so. But it's not really foreign that some countries in our environment are still stubbornly insisting on a regulated price. They don't want to put it in market boxes. I'm not to be clear right now, I'm not against liberalisation and I'm just afraid and pointing to the dangers she can bear. And to point out right now, I will, but I'm still going to take the amendment, but I'm going to vote for the law because I think the path we've chosen doesn't have that choice. It is a path that we must go to be an equal member of the EU and ultimately respect all that we have signed. What concerns me as citizens and as all citizens of this country will indeed be in the wind since 2021, where the market will determine the price of gas. The truth is, according to this bill, HERA will call a competition. And from what I understand from the media, I didn't find it in the law that one of the important criteria for the choice of suppliers would be his margin at the price of gas. If that's true, I don't know. It would be good to protect the consumer in this way. And that mechanism would then at least help citizens not to experience a shock or an increase in gas prices especially for those sectors, places where it is not particularly marketable, so where there are fewer connections, where there won't actually be that many competitions. That's a lot of words. I would conclude this debate by submitting the amendment, and I suppose it will be rejected precisely for these reasons why the European Commission has ordered us to do so, but we still need to fight for sovereignty, so here we are in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71085	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Much has been said, however, by looking at our assembly I have a feeling that we are discussing an irrelevant topic, unfortunately. 'Cause depending on how when, who needs political help, they're gonna throw themselves at each other like that. However, this law that we are discussing today which is technically made, which basically regulates everything. But definitely what we care about when I talk about this area, which is the space and environment in which this law will apply. And that is why it will be very interesting when the HERA report is reported I hope that we will, and it is by law we need to discuss it by 30.6. in the Croatian Parliament. I hope we can discuss it a little differently then, because this area of exploitation and gas sales regulates 27 laws. All these laws need to be controlled by HERA. And what the Secretary of State said in the opening section, HERA is basically the one that will determine the suppliers of a certain limit. So, HERA is the one who simply regulates the rules of the game. And that's why when, and I'm going to do it again for the fifth time today, when we're discussing these agencies, then we need to see why we started them. Not whether they need or not, but whether, why we set them up and whether they are doing their job and whether politics has the right to interfere in the work of those agencies. That's the key question. Because there are people in there from the profession, there are people who know this area, and inside there are people who need to protect on the one hand the citizens and the owners of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, those who sell their product. Because if we want everyone to be happy, then we just have to be clear about the rules of the game. And that's why I repeat HERA is very important here. What I particularly feel about in Croatia as a small country which is unfortunately in its large area is quite scattered and frankly speaking about building infrastructure is uninteresting to anyone who functions under some kind of market conditions. We need to secure what we have at this point. I think that in this particular area of gas and gas supply, Croatia has an extremely strong infrastructure. And it wasn't always like that. Ten years ago, for example, we couldn't directly use our gas from the northern Adriatic. Why? Because we didn't have a highway pipeline that practically led that gas towards central Croatia from Fažana, but it went through Italy and through Slovenia. Well then in the high months when there was a huge consumption in Slovenia we were in trouble. We also did not have an interconnection to the Hungarian Master's Pipeline, in order to practically allow Petrochemy and others to have cheaper gas. So that's all the things that weren't there, but today we have them. If we have them, we need to capitalize them and let no one in this country think about liberalizing it, privatizing it. It's simply the property of this state, the property of a local self-government unit. I was talking about the Great Gore case. We can talk, etc. Well, we've only contributed to that highway pipeline, and let's not let that happen today, so I'm powering this infrastructure to let what happened to us in the privatisation of HT happen to us. So, all those pipes that were pulled under the roads, sidewalks, per unit of local self-government, in a larger case, were built by local self-government units. Unfortunately, no one has ever singled it out of HT. They said it was theirs. In many cities today, you have an unsolved situation, so it's something we just have to keep in mind. And the next two things are gas availability to everyone and gas security. Everyone will fight for gas in the city of Zagreb, in Velika Gorica, in Samobor, they can speak in Varazdin or anywhere because it is relatively dense population, relatively large number of consumers, and now I will fight there. However, in some smaller places it is simply something that is not interesting because now the state and local self-government units need to see how to allow these citizens to come to some energy that is affordable. And security of supply is something very important, because don't forget a few years ago when the temperature outside was in January -10, -15 that many European countries were shaking not only Croatia whether they would get enough gas and be able to warm up. It is something that is very important regardless of what it says is not said in the law, but the one that has been given to be a supplier and to be a local distributor, it simply has to provide all the conditions for the gas supply to be continuous and secure. And finally, I don't repeat what I've been saying so far, and if in anything, Croatia has the opportunity to position energy on Europe's energy map, it's gas. Let us not forget that this highway pipeline of Karlovac is actually Fažana – Karlovac, down goes all the way to Split, Dupolja is capacitated so that today when this pipeline is built no matter where the Americans will drag him to the Adriatic-Ionian, it is irrelevant what he will call it, that he can receive these quantities of gas that will practically go towards Central Europe. It is something that Europe plans as some effect of its energy security, as they do not care about the fact that it depends solely on Russian gas. And that's why this law is good, but when we talk about it then we just have to mention some things because today there have been attempts of some kind of political balling with something. But what we did well, we did well. Maybe we could go with a smaller profile of the pipe to Longfield. It's just that the question is, if tomorrow this pipeline goes down, we want to go digging again and work bigger, but the bigger problem is that local self-government units didn't develop a network on their own. And basically that gas pipeline isn't in a lot of use, and that's what it's supposed to be working on because it's simply a matter of thinking about the possibility of using all kinds of energy. Because a few dozen years ago, it was some kind of vine of oil, like this, like that. But when winter is squeezed, -10 then the only thing people have in mind is to keep them and their family warm, and also that our economy, if it wants to be competitive on the European and world market, must be, have energy at the same price as their competitors have. So, personally I will support this law, technically well done, but I say we should look into the environment in which it applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71087	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71088	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you have opened a very important topic. So this is where we agree the infrastructure should be left owned by the Republic of Croatia in particular by this transport system. Speaking of 75 bars, 50 bars down. It is something that the Republic of Croatia eventually built very well. A lot is already covered, but you point to this part of the distribution network, so from 3 bars down where it's not, that network in many units of local self-government is not built, it doesn't exist. Now back to the key question. When it comes to liberalisation, because I'm in favour of every citizen at the threshold actually deciding who he's going to take the gas from, which will be more favourable to him. However, we need legislation, and I don't understand it here now either. It is said that the agency will call these competitions after 2021. What will be the role of the local self-government unit, to indeed choose that private investor, if private capital is already being invested in the reconstruction of that infrastructure, means editing and building a new one. That's the key question. Can we at least put in mechanisms if we can't regulate the price if we can at least regulate the tender, that those who are willing to say conditionally work on selling gas that they are investing in the infrastructure itself. I'm talking about these distribution networks, so three bars away in settlements and places, especially where that network doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71089	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71090	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, it's smart once enough to make a mistake, and the fool pays his mistakes several times. I'll just pull one parallel. INA was a monopoliest both in research and in draining and gas and oil, etc. But because of that position, she opened gas stations and in places where it was market-based, it was invaluable. But it was simply there to make a pump so that citizens living in the area would not travel 50, 60 km to the first pump. And what happened to us? We liberalized the oil market. And the normal thing, those who came, they were just looking for a space where there were lots of consumers, and none of those who came didn't go to open the pump, let's say, at my place in Pocupsky. That's 40 km from Velika Gorica. These people have to come to Velika Gorica to fill a tractor or something. But if we have to watch it here now when we're doing the same thing. It is simply for the state to provide access to something for all its citizens. And INA today has a lot of pumps that are at its economic cost level, and they even work with a minus. But INA today doesn't hold a hundred percent of the oil and derivatives market, but I think it's about 40 and something else. So these are simply facts that we do when we talk to her and the directive. Your directive determines the directions, the frameworks in which you must move. But if you have a responsibility to your citizens and to the state of that directive, you agree to it by applying the specificities that you simply have there. It's not the directive that determines strictly how you stick to it. It determines your frames. And that's why I've been talking about this infrastructure all the time today as something important, as something that's in store that tomorrow Croatia can make things conditional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71091	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71092	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad to hear your statements like this, but some things have to be done with us for years to come about. When we talk about infrastructure thank God, if in Croatia everything is done right, and I believe it is, but we have these lower distributors we have a city that has gas. We're going to the gas-heated buildings, and we've got buildings that are heating up on the mule, and the building next to the building. But you can't connect to that building because you have a built-up situation so that this building gets older over the masquerade heat. If you understand me. So every citizen or every firm has the right to lead to themselves, and we'll see what kind of law that law will be when... yes, when they come out of those 27 laws that agree. Why? We know the mule is polluting. Gas is more environmentally acceptable. We know that gas is cheaper for both the citizen and the state. And we have to go to the hands that citizens have as cheap heating as possible. Here, we're talking about winter now. However, when gas is one on the mule, it is already organized one boiler room that determines the prices that correspond to them, not to the citizens. And every citizen would pull a pipe through the building as we know it and join his boiler and spend as much as he spends. However, whether we will pass these laws regardless of what ten residents live in the building and 2 will not or 5 want everyone to have the right to bring gas, to bring gas due to the interests of Croatian citizens to each building and to enter into the building. That would be what we're going to do for the citizens' interest. We get into every gas building where there's options, and the city's gassed, so there's a possibility. So the building is 10 meters away, one has gas, the other has no gas, because it's connected to... I want to hear your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71093	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71094	Look, fellow Micic, the thing is, these buildings are heating up on so-called collective boiler rooms that heat up a few dozen buildings. Unfortunately, they have the power to lose energy distribution, so we can now touch those divisors. If you don't have a regulated entry of heat into the building itself, then this whole other thing is losing its meaning. You understand? So if you want the gas to be in one building, then all tenants would have to agree with that because you get the chance to make a thorough central heating. Make that famous gas heater and connect it to your radiators, you have nothing to do with anyone. There's an incasator that's obvious to you how much gas is spent and every apartment pays that much. But then all tenants must agree. Why? Because that heat won't warm two or three apartments in that building. So that's the problem with this collective warming and the logical thing is, therefore, I can mention again my fellow citizens from Gorica who are paying for certainly one of the most expensive heating. And now it's from European funds, doing these energy façades and all that's expensive, but you can't cover what's lost, because when you look at where that heat line's heading in winter when it snows out there, it's 30-40 cm of snow, and on that track it's back. Now you can imagine how much heat is losing. That's why I said that this area that my colleagues were talking about regulates 27 laws. And among other things, consumers, but the question is now, the owner of these heats is HEP. And at this point HEP is the main distributor practically gas supplier in the Republic of Croatia, so for example, here, let's say in Gorica, let's say the five heats that are on the mule, put them on the gas and become a great example for everyone else. But that's when I was talking about availability. So you have one city that's densely populated and in the center of that city you have heat on the mule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71095	Thank you. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, the Honorable Representative Pernar will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71096	I would like to address all the LNG terminals in Krk with the following words. It's not about my words on this occasion, I'm just passing on the conclusions of the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County. And they are the following: The effects on the environment of the floating LNG terminal are negative and numerous. Despite being shown as acceptable in the environmental impact study. First of all, it says, an impact on the submersible because due to insufficient depth compared to the boat's gauze, an excavation of 70,000 metres of cubic submersible soil is projected. Then, the floating LNG terminal uses the sea, which will affect its temperature and organisms in it to prevent the circulation of seawater will be used to chlorine In this respect it should be recalled that the condition for accepting the land terminal was that the warmth of the sea was not used for gas filling and that no chlorination was applied. The FSRU ship will be a permanent source of noise and emissions in the air 24 hours a day. Watch out! Economic effects. The issue of economic impacts, relative benefits at the state, county, local level is raised. The study said that only 50% of the funding for development studies amounting to 747000 euros and 27.92% of the labour funds were granted to the Republic of Croatia, with a total of 101m euros. This means that there should be another 747000 euros for developmental studies and around, now watch out for how much Croatia needs to be provided, 262m euros for works, and funds for the purchase of a FSRU boat of about 250m dollars. So, just for construction work on that terminal and that FSRU ship we'll pay more than half a billion euros. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the European Union will only give us 100 million. So we're going to pay half a billion euros to get into an experiment that will give us 30% more expensive gas. Watch out! Both FSRU ships and a ship that will transport incinerated gas will form a huge new structure in space as a skyscraper of 17 floors, more than 300 meters long, 3 football fields, 100 meters wide and be highlighted outside the land. The comparison with the corners of the surrounding land taken from the topographic map found that ships are higher than the highest hill near Zaglav, whose angle is 46 meters above sea level, while for the ship it is estimated that above the water line is 50 metres high. To point out that there is no such large physical structure in the entire area of Rijeka Bay, neither as a building nor as an industrial or energy facility. It is therefore requested that the study correct that the impact on the landscape will be very significant, not moderate. And so on, and so on... Finally, the following can be determined that the floating LNG terminal has all the elements against which the county has been and this use of the sea for implantation, chlorination, increased visual impact on the environment as it comes out of existing industrial facilities that terminal and has no benefit for the county etc. The day is the end of the next. Information on environmental impact assessment is accepted and it is determined that the floating LNG terminal operation as shown in the study, the Primorje-Gorski County does not support and 35 council members in the county assembly voted for this decision, or all present, including all HDZ representatives. Well, now I'm interested in one thing. She recently told President Kolinda that in Zagreb there was a European Vukic alluding that there was another Vukic who may not have a European story but a much more morbid one. I am also interested in whether there are two HDZs in Croatia, whether there is one HDZ at the state level that assures us of the economic viability, environmental safety and visual compatibility of this project and vice versa. So, the HDZ that assures us on the contrary, that this LNG is not good, so I ask you from the HDZ to coordinate, not to run a hypocritical policy where you pretend to be with the citizens of the Primorje-Gorskin County and to support them and that you are against that terminal, that you understand all the arguments and here in the Assembly, you say that the terminal is good, cost-effective, that you should support it, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71097	Thank you very much, thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Mile Horvat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71098	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, I would like to thank you for today's debate on all constructive proposals and, above all, for understanding the reasons why we think it is good that this law goes according to an emergency procedure and that it starts to apply from 28.2. this year. The amendments that are addressed will be considered and we will plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71099	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71100	We now move to the Final Proposal of the Gas Market Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E., No. 278. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by MP Tomislav Žagar. I ask the motionary's representative, Secretary of State, Maria Shiljeg, to give his reading of the amendments submitted. Let's go to the amendments to the Legislative Committee first. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71101	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71102	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71103	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71104	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71105	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71106	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71107	It is not accepted from the following argument, that formulation was adopted by Directive 2009/73/ZZ of 13 July 2009. on common rules for the internal market in natural gas and repealing Directive 2009/55/ZZ, which is transposed by this law, which removes infringements of EU law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71108	An indication of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71109	We accept that argument we're giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71110	Thank you. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71111	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71112	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71113	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71114	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71115	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71116	And that becomes an integral part of the law. Now we're going on another two amendments to our respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71117	It shall not be accepted from the following reasons, suppliers and public service obligations remain after 2021. The legal solution has enabled the supplyer to remain public service obligations and after a transitional period of 3 gas years, when they are in accordance with art. In the year 113, it abolishes the role of suppliers on a large sales market, and to protect customers from the category of household, i.e. to enable households to be supplied under regulated conditions, which includes and determine the most possible price, at which the gas can be sold to households. The provisions of art are incorrectly interpreted. Article 59 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a new law provides for the selection of suppliers in the public service obligation at a public tender, in accordance with the criteria laid down in the draft law, which is implemented by HERA. After the end of the transitional period of 3 gas years, it shall mean 2021. HERA selects suppliers in a transparent, public tender for public service obligations, which will be implemented every 3 years and has no transitional deadline. The transitional period until 2021 in paragraph 1 of Article 112 shall mean that until the first invitation to tender and in the selection of public service obligations providers, which will only be implemented in 2021, that right remains with all existing suppliers in the public service obligation. In that part, the European Commission’s request was exclusively for public service providers to be selected in a transparent tender every 3 years and is thus harmonised. Finally, the regulated public service obligation price for households remains even after 2021, since it is legally possible for suppliers in public service obligations to exist as such on the market and to be selected in a transparent competition every 3 years and to protect the price against households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71118	Here you go, Comrade Sagar, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71119	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the intensity of this amendment was that, in addition to remembering in the draft law, provided for a period of 3 years for suppliers to prepare for the competition, the intensity of this amendment was to leave for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the opportunity not to see significant gas price purchases for 3 years. That was the meaning of this provision. If I realized from this, it was a little harder to follow because of the noise in the assembly, you're saying that the European Commission's guideline is that every 3 years a competition is being held. I suggested here an extension of seven years, so it wouldn't fit in, it could be two times three years. In this case, I will not ask for a vote because I made a mistake, however, we must stress that there is a danger for households, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should know, that by liberalising gas market services for households, there can be a significant increase in prices especially in the areas where the combination of heating, so wood and gas, and especially in the case where we are, and we have already proposed that provision, the introduction of micro solars, when they are combined with two types of energy, to make a significant increase in the price of gas. And I think that the legislator in this work has to think about the future independently now, in order to protect the household category, it won't be enough just to get HERA to carry out the competition, but other models to be used. I'm not asking for a vote, but please take care of it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71120	Thank you. Then we'll go to Amendment number two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71121	It shall not be accepted from the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71122	Thank you. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71123	It's the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71124	You're not asking for the same vote, so we can then move on to the Final Proposal of the Gas Market Act, please vote. Thank you, Secretary of State. I find that most of the votes, 103 votes in favour, 22 abstentions have been passed by the Gas Market Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71125	The next item is: - Final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No. 224 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71126	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the proposal for a Law implementing the Regulation implementing the harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and the fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their use in the Union is set out in the second reading. Between the first and second readings, we have not received any objections except for certain new technical details that we of course accepted. It is our proposal to adopt this bill for a simple reason why, then, as users of the Nagoya Protocol, which has signed since 1 December 2015, we would enter into our legislation a single property or legal mechanism that would create, in access to genetic resources, the possibility of a fair and fair profit resulting from the use of certain genetic resources and which has not been the case so far. Therefore, it is the urgency of this Protocol, i.e. the accession countries or the international community, to return the profits obtained from the use of certain genetic resources, in a fair manner, according to certain principles, as monetary or non-financial compensation to the domestic countries, to the eco-system, in order to somehow benefit from the commercialisation of certain procedures in the genetic resources of the host country and to have certain benefits. That's the case, for example. The healing plants of South Africa in the tea area, it is so-called The red bush or honey bush, etc., used for cosmetic purposes, used in case of immunisation, one of the weaker known examples is certainly the application of genetic resources to a wide range of microbes for purification, consumption, destruction of waste, and it is known that several different types of mushrooms from the Amazon forest can degrade plastics. So that's what I said in order to paint the logic of this law, it's natural that the use of such resources of grace and commercialization of these resources should also be felt by societies in the domestic states. In some ways, through this law, we have established mechanisms that need to be agreed and with the implementation of Regulation 511 of 2014, so dealing with genetic resources is a fundamental postulate to be treated with due attention. The mechanisms of control in our domestic legislation have been established, the competent authorities are in the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the administrative supervision has been established, very rigorous, breaking provisions are prescribed, i.e. penalties for all those who do not comply with the provisions of this law. And what I'm supposed to end with, so, not to remain undefined, applies only to genetic resources, so this law applies to genetic resources acquired after 12.10.2014. Since the date on which the EU has become a party to the Nagoya Protocol and users can also be natural and legal persons, means scientific institutions, companies dealing with both product and food, beverages, cosmetic products from these genetic resources. So, since there were no concrete remarks, except a few nomotechnical ones, we propose, amongst the 2 readings, that this law, the final draft of the law, be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71127	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71128	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. Today we have another law in front of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, I will say in the beginning that I am sorry that the Ministry may not be called nature protection, because here, nature protection is one very, very important resort, and unfortunately, even in that name we are left behind, someone will choose, today it is gone. He dares to say that it may be one indicator and that in general is the sensitivity of the public to an extremely important resort, which is the protection of nature. Croatia is very fond of boasting in the world and we all like to boast in the world with our natural beauty, with our protected natural values. However, whenever we have some debate about nature protection, they cause very little interest, as if it were something secondary. But let's not forget, today, we have almost 20% of GDP from tourism, and one of the reasons why tourists are coming to us is nature. Today we have 8 national parks, 10 nature parks, and they are just one of the important reasons for the arrival of tourists in our homeland. Today we are talking about the final proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation on Harmonisation Measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol, on the access to genetic resources and on a fair and fair distribution resulting from their use of the Union. It's about a small law, a law that doesn't have a dispute, a law that's already in the first reading here I would say adopted, or there were no major objections to it. What I'd like to explain here is what it's all about. Genetic resources include any material of plant, animal origin, microbial origin. If it also contains functional inheritance units and has a real or potential value. Genetic resources are being used and play a growing role in many economic sectors, food industry, pharmaceutical industry, cosmetic industry, veterinary, forestry as a source of energy of biological origin. Now, what exactly is this about? Some countries are extremely rich in genetic material, some are a little poorer. Croatia, I have pointed out before, is extremely rich. It has a number of protected natural values, and it has numerous edema properties, which I will say we are jealous of. The most beautiful examples in the world, when we talk about this topic, are examples from South Africa, and it's about the properties of rojbos and Hanibush, which are now like teas spread around the world and we all consume them, or we all use them in large quantities. Unfortunately, the area where these two properties come from is not damaged, that is, this genetic material has been taken from South Africa and no one has compensated for the damage, that is, no license of one who actually owns genetic material. We have another example, a very beautiful one, and that's an example of that energy drink, so it doesn't turn out to be advertising to anyone, and it's about Red Bull, where one ingredient inside that energy story is also genetically rare. It is often used today, and the land from where it originates has nothing to do with it. Or to clarify a little bit, in the example of Croatia, if someone wanted to use our Velebit degenia tomorrow or some other endemic property in France and Germany, it would have to deprive Croatia, or pay Croatia, in accordance with this law, to use the genetic material that was exclusively ours. But here he would have turned a little bit, or he would have referred to the vote of a law that was very much instigating the dispute in the Croatian Parliament a few days ago, and it was about the GMO law connected and here we are talking about genes and that law was talking about GMOs. We have to say here, unfortunately, most of all colleagues from the Bridge but from some other parties, they used this law in a bad way, and it is a lie, it is a lie, where they tried to show Croatia and... about the Croatian Parliament, which has passed a good law, a quality law, which protects and restricts the use of GMOs in Croatia, I will say and prohibit it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They showed it in the Croatian public, in a way that the Croatian Parliament, that Croatian MPs allowed GMOs in Croatia, which is a pure lie, which is pure untrue. So this time, I call, all my colleagues, all the political parties, specifically this time from the Bridge, not to be used by lies in their campaigns. The Croatian people and the Croatian state, unfortunately, are plagued by numerous problems. And there is no need to invent new problems, no need to create problems, no need to invent problems that do not exist or serve lies in the Croatian Parliament. Here's so much from me for this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71129	I advise my colleague Zekanovic to use a slightly different dictionary so that we do not insult others. The Honorable Representative Stazic has risen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71130	It's not about honoring the vice president of the dictionary and insult. I don't mind even using difficult words, but my colleague Zekanovic consciously announces that he will now speak of another law, the Law on genetically modified organisms that we discussed many days ago, called by colleagues who are not here at all, and I can't even answer it, so Article 238, it has to be talked about. This wasn't a detour, it was an expansion of the subject, this is a deliberate abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm saying, now I'm not going to talk about the subject that made me come forward, but I'm going to talk about one quite 15th law. Look, it shouldn't be allowed, not because of the insults he has sent or the provokings of any other party, not because of that, it's allowed, it's allowed, it's allowed, but in this way to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, I don't think you should have allowed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71131	Well, I think it was within those borders where many others are spreading the subject, and I'm not happy with it every time, but unfortunately, many people start off on one topic and end up on the tenth subject, and every time I warn myself about it, I'm afraid I'd have to warn everyone. I was more distracted by what I told my colleague, Zekanovic. Well, time No, no, no, no. [[Intruder: Replication response please.]] No, breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, no, no, you can't do that anymore. [[Intruder: Not a replica.]] [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I'm raising an injury.]] Because I've concluded the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions on this point. [[Intruder: And how can he and I not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71132	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No. 224. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 114 for, 5 abstentions and 1 against we passed the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71133	Now we go to the next point that is the point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 257; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Zdravka Busic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. The Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act is proposed to be adopted in order to transpose into the Croatian legal system of the new EU legal instrument, namely the Council Directive of 20 April 2015 on coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate the provision of consular protection to non-EU citizens in third countries and repealing Decision 95/553 EC. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that as EU citizens, citizens enjoy all rights guaranteed by the EU acquis and one of them is the right to diplomatic and consular protection. The consular area is in the exclusive competence of the Member States, and this legislative proposal develops coordination and cooperation measures primarily between the competent authorities of the Member States with a view to facilitating the exercise of the right of Union citizens to consular protection. Croatian citizens as EU citizens can address those third countries where the Republic of Croatia does not have a diplomatic mission, i.e. a consular office. They can therefore address requests for consular assistance and protection of the representations of other EU Member States. Also diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia may be addressed by nationals of other Member States to request consular assistance. The provision of consular assistance and protection also includes the provision of assistance and protection in crisis situations. An increasingly frequent occurrence of crisis hazards is regardless of their cause, elemental accident or terrorist attack requires a rapid and effective reaction from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and diplomatic missions or consular offices. Such a reaction is a prerequisite for preserving the safety and life of our citizens. In particular, in such unpredictable situations, in areas where the Republic of Croatia is not represented, there is an even greater need for active cooperation with other members of the Union. The mutual solidarity of non-discrimination and respect for human rights is the basis on which Member States' cooperation rests in each and every one of them in the consular area. Dear MPs and respected MPs, I would like to point out that cooperation between EU Member States in the consular area is not any newspaper that will be introduced and regulated legally only by the adoption of this law. In this respect, the provisions of the applicable law on external affairs govern the way, the provision of consular assistance to nationals of other Member States, thus laying down rules for the work of diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia. However, shortcomings have been observed in the coordination of the conduct of the competent authorities of the State, the nationality of the consular assistance person and the Member State providing assistance with the aim of simplifying, and thus the acceleration of these procedures which are in a hurry in nature, as it is, for example, the provision of assistance in the case of detention, arrest, victims of criminal offences or evacuation from crisis centres, it is necessary to have clear rules, coordination and cooperation. Dear MPs and MPs, in the section relating to compliance with the new EU legal instruments, the proposed amendments and additions concern the conduct of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in cases where they provide consular assistance and protection to nationals of other Member States. In addition, the areas of consular crisis management shall be governed primarily by the cooperation and exchange of relevant data with the services of other Member States of the Union, the European External Action Service and the EU Delegations, as well as by the legal arrangements between Member States in cases where diplomatic missions or consular offices of another Member State provide consular protection to a Croatian citizen in a third country where the Republic of Croatia does not have representation and where consular protection is provided to nationals of other Member States in third countries by Croatian diplomatic missions or consular offices. One small part of the proposed provisions which do not relate to the harmonisation of the legal property of the Union relate to the arrangement of equal status of employees in a way that proposes the equalisation of the insurance standings with the staff of employees and unemployed spouses, professional and contractual diplomats during the schedule at the diplomatic mission or consular office. In addition, foreign affairs carried out by subsistence officials are defined by harmonising the provisions of this legislative proposal with the provisions of the Civil Service Act. The implementation of this law provides financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 with projections for 2019 and 2020. It is necessary to say that in all cases where consular service costs will be settled by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the funds will be refundable. If it is the costs of consular service provided to Croatian citizens by diplomatic missions or consular offices of another Member State, and they were unable to settle them and did the same thing by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the ministry may, in accordance with the regulations governing the collection of claims, ask Croatian citizens to reimburse these costs. On the other hand, in cases where diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia will provide consular assistance and protection to nationals of other Member States who are unable to pay the costs of consular services provided, the service will be carried out on the burden of the state budget, and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs may ask the Member State of nationality of the person to whom consular assistance has been granted to compensate for the costs incurred. Dear MPs and MPs, I would like to point out that the adoption of this law is not only about meeting the obligation to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, but also about making it easier and more effective to provide certain consular services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in those third countries where the Republic of Croatia is not directly represented. The proposed coordination and cooperation measures will step up mutual cooperation between the consular services of EU Member States and cooperation with the European External Action Service, thereby improving legal certainty for citizens of each individual EU Member State. I thank you for your attention and I am available for further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71135	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And I'm sorry, there was a replica, a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71136	When we talk about consular representations, I agree that this bill is very good and all of our citizens and the reciprocal and other EU citizens must be protected when they are located in other countries and in those countries where there are no consular representations, which is logical. But I would like to mention here a rather current situation which is also very much heard in Croatian society, it is about the selection of staff, the selection of staff in Croatian consular representations other than the network of consulates or embassies, and it is very important to take care of the staffing. People who will tomorrow protect potential Croatian citizens anywhere in the world, especially in major countries such as India, the United States, for example, they must be highly skilled with great life experience and with experience in diplomacy. And that's the key thing and the key prerequisite before a network of consular representations, and before this law that needs to be supported, means, above all, human policy, quality, so that it doesn't happen to us that someone without a working experience, a life experience, without a diplomat school, wouldn't happen to get into some consular representation, for example. for the consul general or something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71137	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder on the side: I can only agree.]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the MPs' club first should be MOST's independent lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj, is missing, losing his right to debate. The next is the SDP MPs' club on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Secretary of State Busic with his associates. I must say that consular protection of citizens abroad is one of the fundamental functions of diplomacy. And in that sense, we welcome every improvement in the system of providing these services to our citizens. And one of the main problems we've encountered so far is actually covering our consulates all over the world. So we are not a country that has a consulate in every country, in all parts of the world, and therefore these solutions for which we have fought for a long time as diplomacy, to help each other, depends on which country has covered the consular area, and to include European diplomacy in all of this together, and to strengthen and to develop European diplomacy strategically and in this segment, which so far has persistently refused or that some countries, but also that Member States have denied this right, I think that we should move forward, precisely for reasons to ensure protection, the proper protection of Croatian citizens in those areas in the world where Croatia does not have their own consulates. In that sense, the SDP Representatives Club welcomes these amendments to the law and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71139	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Kovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to be able to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club about the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. We have already heard from the esteemed State Secretary Zdravka Bušić that the Foreign Affairs Act was passed in 1996, and this law regulates the way in which foreign affairs and the basics of the structure and the way the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and diplomatic and other representations work. The law has changed twice so far, five years ago, one time in June 2013, one time in September 2013. For the first time in June because of the need to comply with EU acts, specifically with the decision of the governments of the EU Member States from 1995 on the protection of EU citizens in diplomatic and consular representations as well as with the 1996 decision to establish an emergency travel document. The second time in September 2013 in order to facilitate the procedure for the adoption of the Internal Order Regulation. Now, for the third time this year, amendments are proposed and re-coordinated mainly with EU acts, in particular with the EU Directive, but also because of the need to regulate certain issues relating to the competence of the organisation and functioning of the foreign affairs service. The aim of the directive is to ensure the application of the right of us as EU citizens who are subject to Article 23. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The Council therefore decided, after consulting the European Parliament, to adopt a directive laying down coordination and co-operation measures necessary to facilitate such protection, to ensure that any citizen of the Union in the territory of a third country in which he is a citizen of a Member State does not have representation, is protected by diplomatic or consular bodies of any Member State under the same conditions as nationals of that State. I will not go into the details spoken of by the esteemed Secretary of State Zdravka Busic, but I will say that exactly the implementation of this directive is, by amending the Foreign Affairs Act, the best indicator of what is worth to us as citizens of the EU. It means that as EU citizens, we can be protected in the world, where we as the Republic of Croatia do not have our own representation diplomatically, consularly or if we do not have our own honorable consul. This is very, very important, and in this context I would also say that I am glad that the MVEP did not change its structure in a way that was abolished by the Consular Affairs Administration which was formed in 2016 because consular affairs are what citizens are most interested in, what they need most, if you are somewhere in the world and I have had the honour of being an ambassador of the Republic of Croatia in a Member State of the European Union where there are a lot of our citizens, then our people are mostly interested in paper, they are not interested in high policy and agreements with the recipient country on some elitist policies. They are interested in how to resolve the passport issue, how to resolve the issue of other papers, how as citizens to function outside, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia to function outside the Republic of Croatia. It is also important for our businessmen who can be found in a country in the world where Croatia has no representation, its embassy, its consulate or its honorable consul. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club supports amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71141	Thank you very much. The next club is representative of the GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is another advantage stemming from our EU membership. Therefore, the fact that our citizens can benefit from the services of consular and diplomatic representations of all EU Member States for Croatia, which does not exactly have diplomatic and consular representations in all countries of the world, and our citizens do indeed exist in all countries of the world. That man only sees where all the problems occur most often when he comes to the ministry, because you learn about the situation if someone gets into some difficulties and needs some help. So, the fact that they will now be able to use this harmonize with the directive, that they will be able to use consular services of all Member States is certainly an advantage, well, positively and in every respect should be supported. I have one question I've asked on the board, and I'd say in the first place about crisis situations. So to the situation of an extraordinary not when a man loses his passport or steals his money or something like that happens, I think that what he writes here is enough. However, in crisis situations some of which are truly some unpredictable provision that speaks for both our citizens and citizens of other EU Member States who are talking about the return of money. Let's just say that when the crisis occurred in Libya, Bulgaria had a lot of people at the time, especially from the medical sector in Libya, organized a plane to get people out, and some of our people joined in and that's how they got out of Libya. That if we were to actually count huge costs and, say, pay for such an airlift, so by plane a special flight, gathering these people and getting them out of a crisis situation is something that can be really very expensive. And it seems unrealistic to me that we expect to collect it from these people afterwards. Passports, lost money, of course. But these situations and assistance in crisis situations, either from our people, or from foreign citizens, so citizens of other EU members, especially since we expect consular and diplomatic missions in countries where we do not have our own representations to help our citizens. And in that case, these citizens should also pay for that aid, i.e. the possibility of coming out of such a crisis situation. In this law, it's defined by the can. So the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs can ask for a refund on these costs, so it might not be a bad idea to give us a little more details on what that means, or that's precisely the kind of situation, so when it comes to some unusual war or major elemental disaster situations in which these costs are actually much bigger than can be expected to pay. So I'd like to ask for an explanation because the law doesn't define what it means to ask. So some will ask, some will not ask how it is planned to define it and whether there is a real difference between the usual difficulties that people have when they seek consular protection, and that is most often whether money theft or passport disappearance is higher than the other situations that are major-scale disasters. And we will certainly uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71143	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrs. Vesni Pusic, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71144	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are again in an interesting historical moment, before us is the foreign ministry representative and I have a question here for her. I'm curious as to what criteria the diplomatic consular network is making progress. And why is that? Because the media released information, please correct me, if I'm wrong, that Boris Blaževkovic, a high school man, who, as far as I know, has no diplomatic experience becoming a new general consul in New York. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it's not clear to me what the criteria are. The lady has her shoulders down, she doesn't know herself. ... You'll answer, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I ask you to answer because the public is interested, is the only criterion, in fact, to advance in the career in Croatia, membership in the ruling party, regardless of whether HDZ or in this case HNS. The public was interested in the reason Boris Blazekovic, 2013 when he was a representative, was the most destructive representative of that year in the meeting. He spent 182000 kuna in the year. In fact, he was spending on the state's account, almost more than his own salary. And the question arises, will such a way, the spending of state money continue once it becomes a general consul. And in the end, until the citizens of our country have to feed such people from their indifference, from what they don't have. There, that's my question. Whether he gets the answer and whether he'll be satisfactory, I might get it, but I honestly don't believe he'll satisfy me, as no other citizens will. Says this Boris Blazekovic, he's without any diplomatic experience. So imagine, like another man, who may not be in HNS, who has high school, no experience, diplomacy, he may not have become a general consul. And in the end, his statement was interesting, that he was sorry, that he voted for HDZ. But, in time, when HNS went to the government with HDZ, but now he's accepting a chair in New York. So that's kind of what he's sorry about, and yet on the other hand, he'll accept, come on, when I've already voted for HDZ, let's be a consul general, I'll accept that duty. Or whether this HDZ-HNS coalition comes down to the love of people by various institutions and what you, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as its representative, are making you stop this practice, whether you publicly point to the problem of such practice or you are silent and you simply implement that policy. You don't answer, you don't care. That's what the Croatian people are interested in. And these are the appointments that rain on everyone, all the young people who finish big schools and do third-rate jobs with those high schools in those countries in the West. And here, this man de facto, with high school, goes to Jure first general consul. Well, that's real, you'd dare say, one jump. So there was neither she going from the attaché, the third secretary, the second secretary, the first secretary, the minister, the advisor, the ambassador, not this jump, to the seat of the General Consul. This is what an enigma is, that is what the Croatian public is interested in and what the public has no answer to. There's no answer that would satisfy her. Or the only answer this government can offer is that it's put there because it's similar, it's the only answer. The HNS also holds the Ministry of Science and Education. So the HNS is holding that ministry. They're telling us about education reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71145	Dear colleague Pernar, I've given you five minutes to speak. I'm asking you nicely, based on Article 238, you're talking about the subject. You can ask questions based on Article 132 of your lips, when the current watch and the foundations of article 140 are in written form of Government, and now I would ask you nicely to talk about the subject for the next 10 minutes. Because so far as I've read from your words, you haven't mentioned the subject in a single word, and the subject is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71146	The question is, can people without experience, without knowledge and without education in diplomacy provide diplomatic consular services to citizens of Croatia and other EU members? It's actually the core, it's the focus of my question. That's the focus of my question. And to that question, I'm actually looking for an answer. I believe you will answer me that you can. But I'm a skeptic, and I don't think the public trust you, and that this coalition, which actually comes down to syncure and infatuation, is not going to help citizens in either Croatia or abroad, those who need help with our diplomatic network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71147	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, a respected colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71148	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you were talking about a man who I don't know the truth either, who was nominated to go to America for an ambassador, but since we don't know what this man was doing, how much he was worth, whether he was educated, not educated, medium-educated by yours. Einstein said a long time ago with a lot of knowledge you can do anything, and with a little wisdom you can do a lot. So we ask the question, we've had diplomacy here for 25 years, and I'm not happy with certain people who were truly highly educated and very educational, but they didn't do anything. Now the question is, what criteria do we want? Maybe if a man had the same broad knowledge, could work with people, could motivate people, could talk to people, could attract certain people to their own, speak hypothetically if I don't know a man. So we here in Croatia like to talk about something all the time, and in fact we don't know what we're talking about, we don't know what that man looks like to be capable of, we can't just talk about something wrong. Let's be a little parliamentary talk maybe I don't like it, maybe they won't do anything, and maybe a man will do a lot. And what would they say if a man did everything he had to do then they'd say, well, I didn't know that. So when it comes to people, I'd like it not to be spoken directly if that man hadn't already shown some ignorance elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71149	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues, and in replicas, you should stick to the topic we're discussing, and this is not a topic. Here's my colleague Pernar, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71150	Comrade Misic, what is this man capable of? Now I'm going to tell you what he's capable of, in 12 months of work in 2012, he spent 430 thousand kuna as a parliamentary representative on travel expenses, for that he's capable. And what I'm saying is, maybe he's really good at talking, maybe he knows how to make friends, maybe he has some other skills and abilities, but I guarantee you Mr. Misic that everything you've stated is not why he's appointed to the General Consul but the only reason he's in HNS is because the HNS supports the HDZ government and in return he gets positions that don't belong by any criteria because I say, to come to such a place without any formal education in that direction, without any experience, I simply don't see that healthy logic. And I am particularly sad that the lady representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs remains silent and does not want to tell the Croatian public what this is about and what the criteria are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71151	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jekovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71152	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar. Here, since you have been talking about your impressions and doubts throughout your discussion in front of the club, based on media writings, not on what the proposal we are discussing at this point is talking about. You haven't been able to touch that, obviously. I am interested in your position and the position of your club on behalf of which you have spoken precisely about what is the subject of these amendments to the law, which is the legal assistance and protection of our citizens in those countries where we do not have our consular representations, and also the reverse assistance of foreign citizens in our country if they do not have their consular representations and also about those changes of the laws concerning the working internship and the internship of the insurance of the consular representatives of what this proposal is about to amend and supplement the law because you did not refer to it at all, and that is what this bill is really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71153	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71154	Mrs. Jelkovac, what's interesting is that sometimes it's said that what's not said is more interesting than what's said. We are in a situation today that your ruling majority is doing nothing to improve the lives of our citizens and that because of this policy, such policies as these party employment have led us to a situation that 250 thousand Croatian citizens have had to leave Croatia in the last few years and have finally had to seek diplomatic and consular assistance abroad. Well, that's a shame, when 250,000 people leave the country, and you do nothing to change that. Or the only measure that you're helping these 250 thousand people is to expand this diplomatic network, that's the only measure. Will you, by this measure, return these young people to Croatia? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71155	Excuse me, colleague Pernar, just please. I'm asking you, if you've got any conversations to get them out of the assembly so you don't disturb your colleague Pernar while he's responding to the replica. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71156	Unfortunately, this law will not help 250 thousand of our citizens who have gone outside Croatia. You deal with technical issues, technical issues are not the root of the problem in our country. The root of the problem in our country is that we have a government that is unable to solve the problems of its citizens, which is unable to provide people with hope and a better future and that is why people leave the country. You don't do that. You do as I say with party footage, and all this new law, that is. I can talk about it, but what it means to a citizen. In practice for 99% of citizens very little and in theory they may be helped. Thank God for helping them. Here's what I support. I'm glad here if it means anything to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71157	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71158	Dear colleagues, Mr. Pernar like this, I think we are all in the best interest of each other, although we are on a different spectrum of political spectrum in order to improve our investment situation, etc. We know that people went out but they went out before, you have more than half a million Croats in Germany alone, Chile 200, 300 thousand, Australia 200 thousand. I am concerned about other matters when one party was in power if it is now in the coalition that we had 2,000 pending cases at the consulate in Chile that have not been sent to Zagreb at all. It's criminal negligence, those people would come here. Here. You had 550 unsolved cases in South Africa, how, where is control there, where formal, informal inspection, who is responsible? For those 2,000 heads put there in the secretary's drawer that party was rewarded, rewarded, now the consulate is in. You have outside, the total power of Croats outside is about 45 billion dollars, they are totally excluded from this economic social development, we need to get them back. I agree with your criticism. What about qualifications? Some were admitted there, in that party, not to... By the party, the odds were getting cash from fake diplomas there, they'd handled it for years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's doing that check? Where's the lead? What about security checks? We're sending people out who were party members, UDBA and people see it out there where assassinations were made. That's what I'd say. Is that your opinion, Mr. Pernar? Is that intentional sabotage footage from... to get people involved with Croats? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're... Is that your opinion on that? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this the intentional sabotage of former personnel that the Croats are jumping out of economic and social development, that we have a country called the "Cross" issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71159	I thank my colleague Glasnović for holding on to the subject. The answer to my colleague Pernar's line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71160	I agree with you and I can't imagine that those who killed emigrants by the '90s, participated, were part of the system that killed them after the '90s, all of a sudden taking care of those same immigrants. That doesn't make any sense to me, General. And this whole policy that really doesn't have a head or tail, which doesn't solve citizens' problems why it's being implemented, here's God knows, one day voters will probably open their eyes, maybe they won't, maybe they say we're satisfied with this, we're satisfied with the staffing, we're satisfied with politics. OK, but voters need to know what this government is doing, what its priorities are, what its goals are and what they care about. That's all I could think of to say during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71161	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary and Associates from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Well, this amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act is something that must be done to bring our national legislation in line with EU directives, but it is good that at least in one small part, it is also a provision that is not directly related to the application of this Directive. As far as the directive itself is concerned, I think that a lot of speeches have already been made about this, but just for a little while further note, it is good that we also train our network to deal with this new standard, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia where we do not have our diplomatic consular representation can then also use consular services of another EU member and vice versa, where we have a consular representation perhaps there is no other member who can then provide the Croatian consulate, or consular department in some of our embassies. On the other hand, I think it's good and we see it in some other applications, and here we will have a debate at the end of this week on the ratification of the EU-Canada Strategic Partnership Agreement. One, for example. of these provisions and cooperation in that area where Canada accepts exactly this new system where one EU member can provide services to other Member States' citizens. It is good to say that this proposal also went beyond the themes covered by the European Directive, especially when it comes to the staff of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, to regulate this issue that has not actually been regulated for a long time and that it has actually come out here, I would not actually say to meet but simply a fair solution in favour of better working conditions for employees of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. What seems to me to be the same if not now opportunity, it may have been now, but if due to the deadlines that we have with and the adoption of this law and the harmonisation of the directive may not have been possible to enter now, and what might be in the future to be discussed and prepared is a comprehensive change and update of the law, of course the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has been taken into account, I do now but there is a real need of this law which today is in force, which will now only in one smaller part be changed actually dates from the time when we had a different constitutional arrangement, so at a time when Croatia was arranged as a semi-president when, of course, the President of the Republic could appoint as state ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then there was the State Ministry, not only the Minister, deputy, but even the assistant ministers. Therefore, a completely different system, where foreign policy management has been defined and coordinated in another way. After 2000 and 2001 with a new change in the Constitution, we of course moved on to a clean parliamentary one. And in some things we've done, in some segments, it seems to me to be good at some mechanisms, coordination, such as. In the area of defence, we did this during our preparations for joining the NATO Alliance, where in order to coordinate all relevant factors, we introduced this Defence Council institute. It may also be necessary to consider here a council for foreign policy, because then all relevant factors, according to the powers they have in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, could and not only agree, in a more systematic way, but also then follow some application of external policy guidelines. I am saying, I am aware that this may not be the time because of the deadlines we have to pass this law and comply with the European Directive. But, certainly, I believe that this is one way of innovation in our legislative arrangement, in terms of foreign affairs, may also be necessary in the future to take into account and go to a more comprehensive change or even the adoption of a new Foreign Affairs Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71163	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier. We have one replica, dear fellow Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71164	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stier, I'd like to ask you now that you've been in diplomacy, you've been Minister of Foreign Policy, one of the cases I had the other day, and that even concerns my family, who lives in Canberra, Australia. Because watch out for one thing, since this same person was born downstairs and of course Australians write Misic, the parent of Misic, the Croatian woman writes Misic, and he writes Misic. He tried to change it in Camberrai and for a few months he couldn't do it. I'm asking the public here right now, I'm asking you all together, so is that a problem? First examination, are you Croats, are you not Croats, where you came from, who you are and everything else I consider normal and okay, but that a man in five months can't solve the problem or 6 can't solve the problem. Here, just Sunday he left Split for Australia, was born in Australia, so it's called Misic, it's down there, but it can be translated into Misic, the wife is Misic, and he's Misic. I'm asking you, how do you solve this and why so much harassment when it comes to passport and everything else, I just get the impression that someone doesn't want to solve something, here's how it is... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71165	I would like to thank my colleague Misic, my colleague Stier's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71166	Thank you, colleague, for that question. Two things, one thing is, of course, in many ways, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, that is, our diplomatic network, when it solves such matters must be in close cooperation with other relevant ministries in the Republic of Croatia, such as The Ministry of the Interior, which doesn't mean that there aren't certain cases and situations where it can be seen, that some things may be interpreted more zealously, rather than going to meet people like that. I remember when I was at the head of that ministry, there was an assistant just for consular work, if we noticed, when such situations, especially when accumulated, some larger number of cases, which were not solved through a longer time proposal, then we knew, intervened from the central office and went to see exactly what the problem was, and that's how it was solved. But you have indeed warned of a problem, which requires an active engagement at times, that it is not overly interpreted by some regulations that make life difficult for some of our citizens or Croats who want to gain Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71167	I thank you for your response to my colleague Stier. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71168	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with associates. Here, corner. It has already been said quite a bit about this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I would, except for that main benefit, which is the alignment with the EU directive, which brings in fact greater legal certainty and legal protection to our citizens in those countries where we do not have our diplomatic missions and consular representations. And also, reciprocally to those EU citizens who do not have their representations in the Republic of Croatia, they also provide assistance from our foreign ministry. I would just like to point out, in addition, that it is very important in these changes as well as in Art. The 61st and 62nd laws, which so far are due to some uncertainty, create a certain legal gap and legal uncertainty and lead to perhaps unequal interpretation in practice, so we have now made these changes and additions really clear, and it is important, in fact, because it is about the recognition of the job and the training of insurance for the spouses, i.e., the life partners of our contracted diplomats, which is, during the time, while their duty has passed, which so far has not been so clear and unequivocally regulated. So it even led to the need, we here are a request for a credible interpretation of the current article 61 and 62 which, therefore, indicates that there was really a need for it to be arranged like this. And I don't think there's gonna be any more problems like that in the future, and I welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71169	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac, for this debate. I call on the esteemed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Zdravko Busic, to give us the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really want to thank everyone who participated in this debate for everything they said. However, I want to, Mrs Vesna Pusic asked one question which, of course, is in place, so I should explain it a little bit. In fact, Madam, the Honorable Madam MP has asked a question about the interpretation of what it really means when the ministry says it can, according to the regulations that regulate the collection of claims, that is to say, ask for compensation of all these costs that the citizen has caused, costs from all Croatian citizens. How and in what way? Of course, and why it can be said, of course it can be interpreted, so it can be charged, and it doesn't have to be charged. Namely, we have, we've had cases where students can't be charged. They just get into problems like that, and there are people who are poor, and of course I hope and everyone will agree that we can't go on some errands in that case. So they really have regulations. The rules will indeed be, I mean quite well-decised so that, it will not be so, it will not be just such a discretionary right where they will be able to be interpreted extensively, but we must not write it anyway, that is, in the directive itself to say it, or should be charged by anyone who can pay for it. However, Mr. Pernar is, I didn't say I didn't want to answer. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that this case that Mr. Pernar was talking about has nothing to do with this amendment to the law, and I just want to say this, that the gentleman and the case he mentioned is not in the list at all, he's not at all at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor is he an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor is he a diplomat. So all that's said is out of context. And I'm just saying, here's what I'm saying if I can say that he actually served himself on this occasion when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and sir, it means he's not at all an official, he's not a diplomat, he's not working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as far as I know. So here I want to answer simply, briefly and clearly and precisely what it is. And what you mentioned, we have the one, but look. So our embassy or consular office or mission should receive it neatly and must send it to the Ministry of Administration, and the Ministry of Administration must do so once it is published on the ad board for 45 days. I know it takes a long time. ... Well, yes, I do. [[You can't hear it.]] Here and I'm not saying it's such a rush to work. I agree we have this problem, but I just want to say the procedure. So our consular office takes over and has to do it that way. So it's being sent to the Department of Administration. The Department of Administration has to put a 45-day notice on the board to, otherwise you know the name is a name. It has to be done that way. Here I hope I've answered all the questions and thank you again. And here I would like to pray that this is a really good change of citizens of the Republic of Croatia have protection, meaning worldwide and at the same time not only in Croatia but anywhere where the Croatian representation is also located in any representation in the world where we also provide the same services to all EU citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71171	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Zdravki Busic, for the closing statement. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I thank the state secretary, Mrs. Zdravki Busic, assistant minister Ivica Glasnović, ministry chief Miri Martinec and Mrs. Gordani Krepečak, foreign service manager for reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71172	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 257, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 122 for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71173	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 285. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the responsible Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I now ask the representative of the motionary to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System Majda Buric to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71174	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Brkic, the Honorable MPs and respected MPs. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Therefore, amendments to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds are proposed following the four-year application of this Act, during which certain ambiguities were observed in its application as well as the need for complementarity and meaning of compliance with other regulations governing the operation of the supervisory entity. In addition, the proposal for a law also adopts a certain terminology set out in the European regulations on the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system while the legal framework for the application of those Regulations is fully established by other regulations. More specifically, it is the terms ‘regulatory capital’ and it is the word ‘qualified’ that is evicted from the Syntagma qualified share in the pension society. The main changes and additions relate in a more precise manner to the regulation of the investment policy of the pension funds, which is expected to improve the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system and thus is expected to benefit all members of compulsory pension funds, for example in terms of improving the quality of the investment of pension funds or their members. In addition, greater investment security and better risk management are ensured, the regulation of the obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the issuer in which the assets are intended to be invested and by abandoning the practice that pension societies rely only on rating by the competent agencies when investing the assets. In addition, it is also necessary to mention reducing the time limit for the selection of a mandatory pension fund from 6 months to 1 month which will reduce the unnecessary accumulation of funds in a temporary account that only burdens the system because the objective of the funds paid is that they are on personal accounts and not on a temporary account, and since statistics show that the Central Insurance Register deploys more than 95 insurance companies into mandatory pension funds, and this is discussed in Article 17 of the amending and supplementing this law. In addition, the mode of supervision of pension companies by HANFA is expanded, hence the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, by prescribing the obligation to auditors of pension companies to provide information on infringements of the rules and, in so far as is expected, an additional insight into the pension companies' operations from the scope of the audit profession which will lead to the improvement of the supervisory procedure. Also, the bill also affects the improvement of transparency in the context of the supervisory measures put forward. Introducing the possibility for the Agency to publicly publish information on the supervisory measures imposed on its website. The duties and obligations of depositaries are increased, are further regulated in relation to the monitoring of the money flow of pension funds and since the bill provides for the possibility that money is not exclusively held in the account of depositaries as recognised as systemic risk, but also in the accounts of other credit institutions. Following all of this, the bill will allow further strengthening the protection of pension fund members and thus promoting and maintaining confidence in the capital market. In conclusion, therefore, these amendments and additions to the law will lead to diversification of investments, a more precise way of regulating the policy of investing pension funds' assets to greater investment security and better risk management until the deadlines for the selection of pension funds are reduced. It will also result in an extension of control modes and an increase in the duties and obligations of the depositary himself. It should also be said that the state budget does not require any additional funding for these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71175	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Majdi Buric, for his explanation. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71176	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, you said in your presentation that the REGOS is now required, that within a month that in one written form, in simple language informs the newly employed person about the selection of the pension fund and I would add the following. So, not only now, not only in the amendments to this law and the addition of this law, but also now the Ministry of Labour and HZMO, employers, and the HANFA, say in one of their publications, they say that the REGOS will automatically deploy into the pension fund and in category B under the management of one of the pension companies and therefore beg the newly employed to decide for themselves in their own and to choose the fund, and not only the fund, but also to actually choose the category for which they want to pay the money. So that information exists, it just needs to be strengthened by the newly employed fact is that 95% of those who have done it so far have not done it yet but has done it on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Secretary of State Majda Buric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71178	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr Babić, I agree with you that there is a need to raise the amount of information and actually raise awareness according to the selection of a mandatory pension fund. What is now news related to these amendments and additions is Article 17. where the notice of the fund's election is prescribed in paragraph 5. the notification will be made by REGOS to all newly employed or new insurance companies where within 24 hours, HZMO will inform REGOS of this newly employed person who will then receive a written notice informing him that a very simple, unambiguous and understandable language related to the types of pension funds he can choose So this is really another raise in the level of information of all our future insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71179	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Before opening the discussion at the gallery we were joined by students of the Engineering and Technical School Fran Boznjković from Zagreb, and I welcome them on this occasion. I hope a lot of things of beauty and wisdom will hear now in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71180	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Buric with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposed law in question, which regulates investment and property policies of pension funds in a more precise way. As we heard in the opening statement, one of the newspapers in the provisions of the proposed law is able to acquire shares, i.e. ownership in another pension society, regardless of whether it is a company managed by compulsory or voluntary pension funds or a fact where its head office, whether in the Republic of Croatia or another state. This enables Croatian pension societies to freedom of entrepreneurship and to expand and strengthen their positions. When it comes to risk management as well as better protection of members, we keep it good that the draft law prescribes the obligation of a pension society to establish an effective and comprehensive process of assessing the creditworthiness of the issuer in which the company intends to invest or invest the property of pension funds, as well as a ban on automatic and exclusively... credit ratings granted by the relevant agencies. Furthermore, the law suggests that for insurance undertakings that do not choose a mandatory pension fund for a period of 6 months so far, the central insurance register would be allocated to them from one of the category B pension funds to a month. This is due to the fact that the statistics show that the REGOS in previous periods is the majority of the insurance companies, as many as 90% of them who did not choose their mandatory pension fund are assigned by duty as well as for the reason that the contributions amounted to the provisional account of the central register of entrepreneurs for a long time. We are equally good at keeping the new employees better informed about the need for the personal selection of the fund in such a way that the REGOS and as we have heard in the last replica of the State Secretary in the notification to the insurance company will describe in a simple, clear, unambiguous and understandable language the types of funds, their essential characteristics, the rights of the insurance company and the data where detailed data can be obtained. Since the current possibility of holding money exclusively in the depositary account is recognised as systemic risk, which is particularly important in periods prior to the signing of the sovereign bonds for the account of compulsory pension funds, and where significant amounts are held on such accounts and with a view to reducing such a type of risk, an amendment has been proposed in view of which the property of the pension fund may consist of money in accounts, i.e. that the money of pension funds can be held on accounts in other credit institutions. Following this, I welcome and support the proposed law, since it will allow for further strengthening of the protection of all members of the mandatory pension funds, and thus preserving the confidence of the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71181	I thank my esteemed colleague Marijana Balic. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71182	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with your associates. Today we have a chance to talk about one of the major frauds in independent Croatia, and I may not be exaggerating if I say that it is a robbery of the century. In fact, we have before us a law on mandatory pension funds, so I'd like to say briefly what this is about. In fact, the pension insurance system in Croatia consists of three pillars of which the first two are mandatory and the third is voluntary. The mandatory pillar means that employers are obliged to pay contributions from workers' salaries. In the first pillar, which is in the jurisdiction of the State, 15% of the contributions or total amount intended for pensions are paid, and 5% or a quarter of the amount indicated is paid in the second column with the second pillar in private ownership. So it's not state-owned, it's private property, it's specifically owned by pension funds or banks. At the same time, the second pillar is under the supervision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which has been cut short by HANFA. The funds for each insurance company in the second pillar shall be managed by the so-called the personal account on which the contributions paid are intended to increase by contributions, and the most frequently made by investing in government bonds or in shares. Thanks to the personal account, investment in the second pillar is presented to the public as a personal savings. The possibility is subsequently introduced that citizens can choose within the second pillar whether they will be in category A, B or C, with category A being a risk category because they can buy up to 55% of shares, and category C is a conservative category because from these means it is not possible to buy shares. The largest number of insurance companies currently in the middle B category. There is also a third fund – a voluntary one where the worker determines the amount to be paid after four years of application of that law, during which time certain ambiguities were observed in its application as well as the need for complementarity and meaning of compliance with other regulations governing the operation of the supervisory entity. In addition, the proposal for a law also adopts a certain terminology set out in the European regulations on the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system while the legal framework for the application of those Regulations is fully established by other regulations. More specifically, it is the terms ‘regulatory capital’ and it is the word ‘qualified’ that is evicted from the Syntagma qualified share in the pension society. The main changes and additions relate in a more precise manner to the regulation of the investment policy of the pension funds, which is expected to improve the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system and thus is expected to benefit all members of compulsory pension funds, for example in terms of improving the quality of the investment of pension funds or their members. In addition, greater investment security and better risk management are ensured, the regulation of the obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the issuer in which the assets are intended to be invested and by abandoning the practice that pension societies rely only on rating by the competent agencies when investing the assets. In addition, it is also necessary to mention reducing the time limit for the selection of a mandatory pension fund from 6 months to 1 month which will reduce the unnecessary accumulation of funds in a temporary account that only burdens the system because the objective of the funds paid is that they are on personal accounts and not on a temporary account, and since statistics show that the Central Insurance Register deploys more than 95 insurance companies into mandatory pension funds, and this is discussed in Article 17 of the amending and supplementing this law. In addition, the mode of supervision of pension companies by HANFA is expanded, hence the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, by prescribing the obligation to auditors of pension companies to provide information on infringements of the rules and, in so far as is expected, an additional insight into the pension companies' operations from the scope of the audit profession which will lead to the improvement of the supervisory procedure. Also, the bill also affects the improvement of transparency in the context of the supervisory measures put forward. Introducing the possibility for the Agency to publicly publish information on the supervisory measures imposed on its website. The duties and obligations of depositaries are increased, are further regulated in relation to the monitoring of the money flow of pension funds and since the bill provides for the possibility that money is not exclusively held in the account of depositaries as recognised as systemic risk, but also in the accounts of other credit institutions. Following all of this, the bill will allow further strengthening the protection of pension fund members and thus promoting and maintaining confidence in the capital market. In conclusion, therefore, these amendments and additions to the law will lead to diversification of investments, a more precise way of regulating the policy of investing pension funds' assets to greater investment security and better risk management until the deadlines for the selection of pension funds are reduced. It will also result in an extension of control modes and an increase in the duties and obligations of the depositary himself. It should also be said that the state budget does not require any additional funding for these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71183	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Majdi Buric, for his explanation. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71184	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, you said in your presentation that the REGOS is now required, that within a month that in one written form, in simple language informs the newly employed person about the selection of the pension fund and I would add the following. So, not only now, not only in the amendments to this law and the addition of this law, but also now the Ministry of Labour and HZMO, employers, and the HANFA, say in one of their publications, they say that the REGOS will automatically deploy into the pension fund and in category B under the management of one of the pension companies and therefore beg the newly employed to decide for themselves in their own and to choose the fund, and not only the fund, but also to actually choose the category for which they want to pay the money. So that information exists, it just needs to be strengthened by the newly employed fact is that 95% of those who have done it so far have not done it yet but has done it on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71185	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Secretary of State Majda Buric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71186	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr Babić, I agree with you that there is a need to raise the amount of information and actually raise awareness according to the selection of a mandatory pension fund. What is now a newspaper related to these amendments and additions is Article 17 where the notice on the need for the fund is prescribed in paragraph 5 is provided to the REGOS, and this notice will be given to all newly employed or new insurance companies where within 24 hours, HZMO will inform the REGOS of that newly employed person who will then receive a written notice informing him that a very simple, unequivocal and understandable language related to the types of pension funds he can choose and then that same bank through his pension fund imposes on the pension fund to buy shares of Petrochemy in order to repay his own debt. And that's what you do. Do you know how many pension funds bought the shares of Petrokemia? For 170 kuna. Do you know what they're worth in today's stock market? 11, 11 kunas are worth it. It's available with our work. Who did and why did he buy this year for hundreds of millions of Euros of Agrokor shares, on whose orders? Who bought Kredo Bank shares and a whole series of Optima companies, Dalekvoda and a whole series of failed companies where tens of billions of kunas of our pensions were spent. So the system is set up so that we citizens are at full risk, not only at risk, but at loss, that the state is at risk and loss, and the only ones benefiting from pension funds are members of pension funds themselves. They're the ones who make it worth their while. And not only do they get paid, but they also have strong support for the ruling structures, they have a very powerful PR who, of course, paid our money again, and this powerful PR through the media that is controlled in the hands of large executives, reassures us day and night and bombes that we're making some money from another pension fund, and we're not making anything but we've been robbed and in the future we'll have far less pensions than the current pensioners have. These are your mandatory pension funds, gentlemen and Croatian citizens, unfortunately I must tell you the truth. To think that with the help of another pension fund, you'd have some kind of bigger. You know how much a man with minimum salary will have, a pension from the second pillar. 300 kuna. And whoever has 1000 euros in salary, and those are very few in Croatia, will have a pension from the second pillar of 900 kuna. What are we talking about? What stable pension system for 900 kuna? And now watch the greatest corruption of all. This is the perfect example of corruption. The only people in Croatia who will benefit from the second pillar are those who have paid more than 1000 kuna, which means that parliamentary representatives and members of the government will benefit. And that system advances all of you here in the Parliament, and there are such praises to God enough to support the second pension column because they themselves benefit from it, because they personally benefit from it. So the system is designed to create lobbyists with automation that will also, as a kind of PR, force what I initially called a robbery of the people, and I believe that in this debate, I have been able to prove. He's saying we'll inherit the pensions. So if any of us who paid into the second pillar, and we're paying hundreds of thousands of kunas to die 65 years ago, the money remains a pension fund, remains a pension fund. If the money had been paid in the first pillar, it would have stayed in the state. You'll replicate later, and you'll explain your theory. To think that someone will die so that his children will inherit that money will not, will not inherit. That property isn't hereditary. It's not. You'll inherit it? All right, I wish you good luck, but you'll see you won't. I guarantee it. The second thing, we're in 30, 40 years, every month we're gonna pay some amount in the pension fund to pay 300,000 kuna and it can happen that I don't know a man when he retires after five years he dies and he's gonna use maybe a fifth, maybe a quarter of that amount. So he won't be able to recover even what he's paid for, and especially not talk about any offerings. So, given that the debate is going to end, I will continue in an individual debate. I want to tell the citizens, the banks tricked you with the help of the government and an expensive paid PR. Through the second pension fund, you have poored not only all of you, but also the entire Croatian state. In the future, you will have fewer pensions, and you will not be able to obtain the savings, nor will any of you be able to inherit them. Realising this problem, it is necessary to immediately stop payments to the second pillar, which should remain voluntary with the possibility of returning all insurance companies who want to do so in the first pillar. In the future, payments in the second and third pillars should be made exclusively through state banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71187	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Before opening the discussion at the gallery we were joined by students of the Engineering and Technical School Fran Boznjković from Zagreb, and I welcome them on this occasion. I hope a lot of things of beauty and wisdom will hear now in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71188	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Buric with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposed law in question, which regulates investment and property policies of pension funds in a more precise way. As we heard in the opening statement, one of the newspapers in the provisions of the proposed law is able to acquire shares, i.e. ownership in another pension society, regardless of whether it is a company managed by compulsory or voluntary pension funds or a fact where its head office, whether in the Republic of Croatia or another state. This enables Croatian pension societies to freedom of entrepreneurship and to expand and strengthen their positions. When it comes to risk management as well as better protection of members, we keep it good that the draft law prescribes the obligation of a pension society to establish an effective and comprehensive process of assessing the creditworthiness of the issuer in which the company intends to invest or invest the property of pension funds, as well as a ban on automatic and exclusively... credit ratings granted by the relevant agencies. Furthermore, the law suggests that for insurance undertakings that do not choose a mandatory pension fund for a period of 6 months so far, the central insurance register would be allocated to them from one of the category B pension funds to a month. This is due to the fact that the statistics show that the REGOS in previous periods is the majority of the insurance companies, as many as 90% of them who did not choose their mandatory pension fund are assigned by duty as well as for the reason that the contributions amounted to the provisional account of the central register of entrepreneurs for a long time. We are equally good at keeping the new employees better informed about the need for the personal selection of the fund in such a way that the REGOS and as we have heard in the last replica of the State Secretary in the notification to the insurance company will describe in a simple, clear, unambiguous and understandable language the types of funds, their essential characteristics, the rights of the insurance company and the data where detailed data can be obtained. Since the current possibility of holding money exclusively in the depositary account is recognised as systemic risk, which is particularly important in periods prior to the signing of the sovereign bonds for the account of compulsory pension funds, and where significant amounts are held on such accounts and with a view to reducing such a type of risk, an amendment has been proposed in view of which the property of the pension fund may consist of money in accounts, i.e. that the money of pension funds can be held on accounts in other credit institutions. Following this, I welcome and support the proposed law, since it will allow for further strengthening of the protection of all members of the mandatory pension funds, and thus preserving the confidence of the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71189	I thank my esteemed colleague Marijana Balic. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71190	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with your associates. Today we have a chance to talk about one of the major frauds in independent Croatia, and I may not be exaggerating if I say that it is a robbery of the century. In fact, we have before us a law on mandatory pension funds, so I'd like to say briefly what this is about. In fact, the pension insurance system in Croatia consists of three pillars of which the first two are mandatory and the third is voluntary. The mandatory pillar means that employers are obliged to pay contributions from workers' salaries. In the first pillar, which is in the jurisdiction of the State, 15% of the contributions or total amount intended for pensions are paid, and 5% or a quarter of the amount indicated is paid in the second column with the second pillar in private ownership. So it's not state-owned, it's private property, it's specifically owned by pension funds or banks. At the same time, the second pillar is under the supervision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which has been cut short by HANFA. The funds for each insurance company in the second pillar shall be managed by the so-called the personal account on which the contributions paid are intended to increase by contributions, and the most frequently made by investing in government bonds or in shares. Thanks to the personal account, investment in the second pillar is presented to the public as a personal savings. The possibility is subsequently introduced that citizens can choose within the second pillar whether they will be in category A, B or C, with category A being a risk category because they can buy up to 55% of shares, and category C is a conservative category because from these means it is not possible to buy shares. The largest number of insurance companies currently in the middle B category. There is also a third fund – voluntary where the worker himself determines the amount that will be paid...... in the pension fund, and on these funds he can also receive state incentives of 750 kuna per year. The peace funds have existed since 2002 because that year it was concluded that the pension system is unsustainable and then a reform is made assuming that future pensioners will receive a pension from two pillars, first and second, according to mortality tables and will have not only more stable pensions than they say, and larger pensions. Among other things, public pension reform promised that funding from the second pillar would be inherited. Over time, however, it has been increasingly shown that the reform has not only not solved the pension problem but has potentially increased further. It has been shown that the success of the second pillar should be met by a series of conditions which are practically inconclusive, which are primarily the constant growth of GDP in such a way that GDP growth is higher than the interest we pay on public debt, then constant employment and strong supervision of banks, above all, in terms of abolishing the currency clause and bringing the kuna into the real exchange rate. Instead of these references, we have poor policies of the government of the Republic, which have reduced the number of employees and made the demographic picture worse, so Croatia today has 400,000 persons with fewer and 300,000 pensioners compared to 1991. Even worse, at the same time, pension funds, those who oversee the second pillar, have become their own purpose and the only link in the chain that makes profit while everyone else suffers damage. What's the problem with the second pillar? Namely, the problem is next. Every year, 5% of the budget is allocated to the second pillar. It's about 5 billion kuna, about. Since 5 billion kuna is not sufficient in the budget, the state cannot pay out pensions from the first pillar. In order to pay for the pensions of the first pillar, the state must be in debt. The government has to pay interest on this task. In view of the separation in the second pillar, there is an increase in public debt. From the approval of the second pillar and only thanks to it, the public debt has increased by 1/3. Since the public debt has increased by 1/3, Croatia has crashed its credit rating. Since the credit rating has been downgraded, interest on loans has increased to all loans and not just to loans raised by the second pillar. Since credit ratings have been downgraded, interest rates have been raised, GDP growth has slowed. As GDP growth has slowed, there has been a reduction in unemployment. Since unemployment has been reduced, the young have moved out. And thank you, until the unemployment increase, young people moved out, when young people moved out and the state got into a crisis, what happened, taxes and excise taxes went up. You have one whole negative chain thanks to an increase in public debt that caused no one else but another pillar. So the second pillar is the main generator of the crisis, one of the main generators of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. So far, about 90 billion kuna has been paid into the second pillar. What do the banks say about all these costs that have been caused by the second pillar's allocations? The banks say these are you know, transition costs. Here is a euphemism, a beautiful name for all the damage that has been done to the Croatian economy and society. And now, finally, let's look at what kind of picture we have, one particular example. A citizen in the Republic of Croatia pays 100 kuna in the second pillar. The fund buys government bonds, so it actually buys government debt and makes ten kunas. And then you get 10 kunas on 100 kunas and they say look, you've earned 10 kunas. But at the same time these same taxpayers paid 20 kuna on increased taxes, so he earned 10 to lose on the other side of 20. So the pension fund has no other function than to rocket the state to benefit from it itself, that's the function of the second degree. In the end, the worst of it all. The peace funds have our money the way they want it. I've already asked the question here countless times, and I'm asking the secretary of state, and I'm not sure he's going to answer it, and how many salaries do pension fund management members have? Publicly, they say they have about 10,000 euros per month. Monthly. Besides having such salaries that hide like a snake's feet, pension funds charge fees from us who pay into those pension funds. If you didn't know, you'll get 10% of your pension fees from the third volunteer post, and 30% of your commission from the second pillar. You heard right, commission. Furthermore, these same pension funds invest money in shares, not shares that are valuable and therefore this law has come to the Parliament today, but to those shares which are in their interest, or in the interests of their owners, specifically banks. So what's this about? The bank, I'm talking about the example now, Raiffeisen Bank, lends Petrochemia credit, Petrochemy gets into trouble... the same bank through its pension fund orders the pension fund to buy shares of Petrochemia in order to repay its own debt. And that's what you do. Do you know how many pension funds bought the shares of Petrokemia? For 170 kuna. Do you know what they're worth in today's stock market? 11, 11 kunas are worth it. It's available with our work. Who did and why did he buy this year for hundreds of millions of Euros of Agrokor shares, on whose orders? Who bought Kredo Bank shares and a whole series of Optima companies, Dalekvoda and a whole series of failed companies where tens of billions of kunas of our pensions were spent. So the system is set up so that we citizens are at full risk, not only at risk, but at loss, that the state is at risk and loss, and the only ones benefiting from pension funds are members of pension funds themselves. They're the ones who make it worth their while. And not only do they get paid, but they also have strong support for the ruling structures, they have a very powerful PR who, of course, paid our money again, and this powerful PR through the media that is controlled in the hands of large executives, reassures us day and night and bombes that we're making some money from another pension fund, and we're not making anything but we've been robbed and in the future we'll have far less pensions than the current pensioners have. These are your mandatory pension funds, gentlemen and Croatian citizens, unfortunately I must tell you the truth. To think that with the help of another pension fund, you'd have some kind of bigger. You know how much a man with minimum salary will have, a pension from the second pillar. 300 kuna. And whoever has 1000 euros in salary, and those are very few in Croatia, will have a pension from the second pillar of 900 kuna. What are we talking about? What stable pension system for 900 kuna? And now watch the greatest corruption of all. This is the perfect example of corruption. The only people in Croatia who will benefit from the second pillar are those who have paid more than 1000 kuna, which means that parliamentary representatives and members of the government will benefit. And that system advances all of you here in the Parliament, and there are such praises to God enough to support the second pension column because they themselves benefit from it, because they personally benefit from it. So the system is designed to create lobbyists with automation that will also, as a kind of PR, force what I initially called a robbery of the people, and I believe that in this debate, I have been able to prove. He's saying we'll inherit the pensions. So if any of us who paid into the second pillar, and we're paying hundreds of thousands of kunas to die 65 years ago, the money remains a pension fund, remains a pension fund. If the money had been paid in the first pillar, it would have stayed in the state. You'll replicate later, and you'll explain your theory. To think that someone will die so that his children will inherit that money will not, will not inherit. That property isn't hereditary. It's not. You'll inherit it? All right, I wish you good luck, but you'll see you won't. I guarantee it. The second thing, we're in 30, 40 years, every month we're gonna pay some amount in the pension fund to pay 300,000 kuna and it can happen that I don't know a man when he retires after five years he dies and he's gonna use maybe a fifth, maybe a quarter of that amount. So he won't be able to recover even what he's paid for, and especially not talk about any offerings. So, given that the debate is going to end, I will continue in an individual debate. I want to tell the citizens, the banks tricked you with the help of the government and an expensive paid PR. Through the second pension fund, you have poored not only all of you, but also the entire Croatian state. In the future, you will have fewer pensions, and you will not be able to obtain the savings, nor will any of you be able to inherit them. Realising this problem, it is necessary to immediately stop payments to the second pillar, which should remain voluntary with the possibility of returning all insurance companies who want to do so in the first pillar. In the future, payments in the second and third pillars should be made exclusively through state banks. Thank you. . /.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71191	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71192	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you point to what the MPs around us don't really understand. They don't understand because they currently have salaries from 14 to 17 thousand kuna. Mr. Hrelja,...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71193	.../Intruder Brkić: Mr. Hrelja, please do not disturb your colleague./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71194	...I don't have a problem with you calling in for a debate, I don't have a problem with you polymizing with me. I don't have a problem with you replicating me either, but if you're in my word, then you won't let me speak, and that's my right, Mr. Hrelja. You may not like that I'm in Parliament and that's your right, but the citizens have said theirs. And they put you on me, too. As you have the right to say what you think, so do I. I'd like to say that the MPs around us are not aware of the problem you're talking about, Mr. Bunjac. Why? Because they have big salaries and only when they find themselves in a situation where their pension is 300, 500 or 1000 kuna would they realize that the pension system is not working. And this is all you're trying to tell them is actually impossible, because they don't walk in those shoes. They are not in that situation, and only when they find themselves in a situation where they can't see that they can't live on their pension would they rebel against this pension system. However, like the two of us, they will have the right to resign. And that's the key detail. So we have privileged pensions and deputies, and the rest of the citizens won't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71195	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please don't enter the word of your colleague Pernar, let him finish his thought. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71196	I just wanted to say that those who aren't in the situation you're talking about, that many citizens have found themselves or are just about to find themselves, I can't understand you. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71197	I thank my colleague Pernar. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71198	Thank you very much, Agent Pernar, says books and psychology that truth is most unpleasant, so it causes the most reaction. We've seen here that some can't stand it, even if you're done with a two-minute exposure. The problem is, exactly, that you said that they only realize the consequences when they've already happened. Here, this law is a classic example of that. They realized that pension funds had stolen our money and paid it to Agrokor and I don't know who, although it was clear that it was an extremely risky placement, only after the robbery was done. Now they're passing the law, and the council says don't ever do that again. Yes, and now it's over, our pensions will be less due to these investments. And this way it's gonna be small, and this way it's gonna be even less. Now they're saying, don't trust big company credit reports anymore. Because every credit company has its own credit report that then buys shares and I don't know, and other financial tools, etc. But we know that the reports of Agrokor were false, that they were set up. And now they say, don't trust those balance sheets or the ratings anymore, now you're doing deep analysis. So why didn't you do deep analysis while you were in need? Now that Agrokor's worth zero kunas, they'd be doing analysis. That's how tomorrow, our dear secretary of state, when she realizes she's got a pension of 500, 600 kuna, then she'll say, well, my Bunjac, and why I didn't listen. Here, now you can listen to me. You're in retirement there at the Ministry, so just analyze the situation yourself without me. So you'll realize you'll have very miserable pensions. And Croatian citizens are going to have them at all. What they will have is more appropriate to call social assistance than retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71199	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjc for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71200	Dear counterpart Bunjac, it is very difficult to replicate your exposure because it is disastrous and more appropriate to report, the discussion of the report on the work of compulsory pension funds, which is based on the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, they must give and explain here in the Croatian Parliament every year. The amendment was given to the Croatian pensioners' party in 2013 because they are engaged in public affairs and are obliged citizens through their representatives to know everything they invest in and how they invest. So we got the system transparent. But you've said a lot of lies and controversy in your presentation, you've said the salaries of members of the pension fund management. Well, dear God, I guess you're different from retirement societies that are more manageable to pension funds, which aren't legal entities. The peace funds are not a legal entity so that the money in that account can be protected from bankruptcy, execution and all. So we can talk about everything, but we can't talk. To say, you said the second controversial, that the benefits of members of the pension funds, so the ones we invest, means we benefit. First you attack pension funds, then you say the benefits come from members of pension funds. And members of pension funds have a million, eight hundred and a few thousand, the one who received one salary is a member of pension funds. And you're saying it's the personal benefit of a representative. People, so MPs do not belong to the first 2,000 salaries in the Republic of Croatia, and none through their salary has broken through the censorship that what he receives from the second pension column will be his reward above the highest pension. People study the system a little bit, so you'll know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71201	I'd like to thank the esteemed colleague of the Temple on the Replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71202	Thank you very much for telling us about your salary, I see that's a very important topic. However, I would like to point out that you are also studying some data. In fact, out of 130,000 people who had to choose whether to retire on the first or second pillar, 150 chose to have a pension per drug pole. Do you need more proof of the failure of the pension reform? Do you need more proof of failure than the fact that those people who were born in 1962 and who, of this year, have to retire on the second pillar have pensions of 27% less? So where are those bigger pensions? These are bigger pensions, because 27% are lower. So what are we talking about? If they're bigger pensions, let them be bigger, make them half a percent bigger, but they're smaller. Whoever could have picked the first and second pillar, said I wanted to go to the first pillar. Now give these people a chance to retire, so that's their investment, that's their contribution. Give them an opportunity to choose between the first pillar and the second pillar. They'll all be back in the first column. And what else do we have to talk about? That's the voice of the people. And what I said was that pension funds or pension societies are some kind of fellers, etc. I think we all figured out what I was going to say, but basically citizens at the end of the day are only interested in whether they're going to get a pension and how much it's worth. End of story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71203	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71204	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71205	Dear Comrade Bunjac, please turn off the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71206	You were talking about the first retirement stake and the second pension column. I'm asking a question here publicly which pension is protected? There's one example I want to tell the public where the pensioner had one loan, where the bank did it, got kicked out of the house, so he took a pension of 30% for two years because the bank was taking part of the job. But what happened? That same pensioner was completed with 100% of his peacehouse last month. 100%! He didn't get anything. There's nothing to pay for a tenant's apartment. I paid him for it. He went to the Centre for Social Work, went to retirement (in Osijek is the case) and no one knows how to solve the problem. Of course, you should let him eat. They gave it, they came out of town. I ask the question here: what do you do with people like that? How is it possible for a man to be completed 100%? It's a Slatine Bank in Osijek. 100% complete. Let's ask what we're doing in this country. What's going on? Of course we have examples of this and that. We're here to take care of it, if we've passed the law, that someone can't be completed more than 30%. That there isn't a bank that did it all, and that's the truth. Check it out, it's a question of Osijek and Slatine Bank. I gave for the apartment, I'll give for the next month and the next. The question of when will this man solve his problem? Very difficult. The institutions are trying, but it's not working. And he's right when it comes to problems. The crowd of citizens is in trouble. We're talking, and we're not working it out. This is if you're looking at the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71207	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Answer. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71208	Thank you very much. Representative Misic, so you have also asked specific questions. And concrete questions should be dealt with as a matter of fact. We are dealing with, I don't know, nomotechnics, philosophy, some sublime terminology, and in fact 97,000 people in Croatia over 65 don't have any pensions. No receipts. About 2,000 of them have received less than 1000 kuna. Should we say that the poverty threshold is about 2200 kuna, that more than 50% of the pensioners do not have that amount of pension. And why is that? Because there's no political will. Retired people are only wrong to vote when the election is with some kind of promise, and what did we give them in practice? In practice, we gave them a model of pension accounting which basically leads to pensions falling behind wages, so they are currently about 37% of the salary. It used to be 70%. We lead them to the fact that the amounts of pensions so, below the poverty line at the social aid level, we lead them to the fact that the pensioners have to pay for health services, I don't know, they've spent 40 years of their lives contributing to it, I can't come, I don't know, to review it. We come to have a bunch of retirement homes like the one from Osijek that we saw the other day, which look like the code is from scary movies and horrors. What do pension ministry workers also think about? Where are those solutions? We just want to talk, we will, we will, we will, we will open the program credible, we will now, we will now, national pensions, guaranteed minimum pensions, and in practice, we will get the benefit of Agrokor and the arrests in pension societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71209	Thank you, Comrade Bunyan for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of GLAS and HSU, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71210	Thank you, Mr. Comrade Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So, it's very difficult after this salva of catastrophic statements to talk about this bill, but the debate is why it serves to clarify some things, and when Mr. Bunjac and Mr. Pernar fight for so many rights for pensioners, at least 10% of the rights that I have fought in political work, then I will personally congratulate them. I agree that it is not enough, I agree that there is more to be done, but for everything it is necessary to create a certain economic base and that it can be shared more, and just so you know, when someone has no more than 15 or 20 years of internship and that he has been on a low salary and has received a salary under the table (one part of the salary), that fact the pension system cannot change. And don't stand up for being purely populist, let's give everyone 4 or 5000 kuna pensions and everything will be fine. We then derivate the principle of pension insurance because only the principle of insurance means that what comes out must in some way correspond to what has been collected over the years through contributions and built as the personal right of every citizen. It's your pension system, it's not a social system, give it to him and be the bearer of the fight against poverty. Through the pension can combat poverty targeted by certain measures in certain years, and this is not controversial, but cannot bear on the pension system the fight against poverty that is the task of the state and all social systems and social protection and health care, hence the total entire system of the Republic of Croatia. This is one problem we've been dealing with since 2002, we've been upgrading mandatory and voluntary pension funds laws, pension insurance companies. There's a mountain of terminology to be distinguished. All of us and who we are in more matter often get confused with it, but with light reading, we come up with the right things. And my colleagues, Bunjc, should be told that out of the 120 thousand, not all of them had gone to retirement who had the right to vote, had taken a pension from the first pillar, and that only 150 had taken a two-stage pension was in the fact that changes were made in 2009 and that they had completed the law in which they were allowed to do so. If someone hard in the Croatian government stood then that once you decided there would be no change, they would be orphans with their pensions. However, pressure from pension societies and accounting and people see, understand mathematics has come to be done, and it wasn't a great time, in 2009, it wasn't a great time, you have to admit, we were in a crisis practically, but it was done. What happens to those who retired last year and have no 27% supplement? You have here a request for a credible interpretation that my colleague, Peja Grbin, and I, did not pass on the Committee of Legislatives, we will discuss, we will see what can be done. That they have the right to do so, in my opinion, yes. It is a question of qualified majority here whether they will decide in the Croatian Parliament whether they will support it or not. If most of these votes against them won't get it, but that's this problem we're talking about, it's not some other problem. As far as this law and this bill are concerned, I can suspect as well as my colleague Bunjac that this is an ex-post mind about investing in the shares of Ledo and Jamnica, it is a fact, it can speculate that this is an ex-post mind, but if it is good to change it, never again, that someone can have a good rating on the stock market, and that they have hidden some of the bonds they betrayed and covered up someone's business that no one was obliged to publish. Therefore, I agree with my colleague Bunjec that they had to be more careful and not have the right to play with the money of the Croatian citizens, we are talking about pension funds or about the administrations of pension companies that decide where the money will be invested, whether it will be invested in bonds, whether it is in domestic shares, whether in foreign shares according to the rules laid down by this law or still compensate for the rules laid down by the regulator or by the HANFA. However, the content of these amendments and the addition is ultimately good, it is about compliance with EU directives, and we are part of this large family and EU legislation obliges us, so we must implement it in our laws. What I would suggest here is a new obligation to REGOS, or that what the citizens of the newly employed have the right to decide in which mandatory pension fund, they have had a 6-month period, now that deadline is reduced to a month, I warmly ask you to turn it into at least 60 days in another reading. The model that you presented to me this morning on the board that now REGOS will automatically each new employee who appears in the HZMO register in the first pillar, that REGOS will immediately inform of his obligation and his right and basic indicators where he has the right to decide. However, REGOS cannot work propaganda, so an individual must enter the system and study it himself. REGOS can unless he decides to give it to one of the pension funds. I think we should work here in two degrees. First, inform every new worker that he has this obligation and if he does not do so in the first month, send him a fee notice because he did not do so that REGOS will automatically assign him to one of the funds in the second step. I think that for this process, the deadline of the month is too short, regardless of the progress of communication technologies, I think the deadline is too short. After all, the newly employed worker in the first month also has too many obligations and problems and mastering his job and environments and everything, and I'm afraid it's not a dominant problem for him to face. Of course, in this law, this assessment of the situation has been beautifully processed, and it should concern us. Yes, the fact that we spoke on the board this morning, the fact that there is no great interest and that people do not experience it as already said here as their personal property and are quite uninterested at the beginning of their working life for something that should possibly happen in 40 years that shouldn't be. Citizens in this process are expected to be active participants and to know that societies, pension societies are each year obliged to provide a report on the state of their capitalised savings. I'm going back to something that was said here. No, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not paid 90 billion kuna, they have paid about 60 billion kuna. 30 billion is capitalized, so an increase in profits over the last 14 years, and we have to. No one spent, no one gambled with the citizens' money. That's the way to speak to the citizens honestly. No, I'm saying it's a delusion, someone's gambling with your money. We pay him even less. Okay, I didn't go looking for that data, but something less started with two billion, so it's grown by now just over five billion a year that are being paid. But for a long time it grew, we followed that course. So, of course here is the emphasis on a stronger revision of pension companies' business. That to me, I always pull the parallel we have a concession contract for BINA Istria, and we don't have a member of the board so we can have control of how they spend money. Do they buy new cars or other things every year? I think it's a good thing that there's a stronger revision in pension societies and that there's a possible declaration of violations and that HANFA is declaring misdemeanors by funds. And today no one can say that all the funds are the same and that all the fund management societies are the same, because it's just not true anymore. If you look at last year's profit report, i.e. an increase in savings ranging from 1 and a half to 5 and 30, it seems to me by different funds, 5.30 and that's not exactly the difference that they're all the same. There are significant differences in yields. I can, but I don't understand the appearance of a fellow living wall if our pension funds despite what they're saying here on the European scale are among the more successful pension funds. They can't be more successful than Scandinavian, specifically Norwegian pension funds that have thousands of billions of dollars in their portfolio. But because it's not just a pay contribution that goes into those funds. These funds go to every barrel of oil leaves a certain percentage in pension funds. So they leave the state's resources draining at least for pensions to present and some future generations that may not have a job. Shouldn't we, instead of destructive, discuss here whether there should be an obligation in Croatia for gas, oil, water, stone? These are our resources we're exploiting. Why can't one part be for future generations who may not have these employment rates, where we're going to have to give national pensions. But for that, you need to look far ahead. There's no short-term here. There are no short-term moves in the pension system, nor in the pillar of generation solidarity, nor in the second pension column, nor in the voluntary third pension column. You have to keep an eye on everything in the long run. Of course, pensions from two pillars if we don't make the intervention that people get these 27% for years will only be spent in the first pillar, that it will only be better for those who have an average salary. But if you think the pillars are retired, then they don't do everything for themselves, then they don't make up one system. But all these three pillars hold one house called the pension system. Where one ends, the other begins and vice versa. So if we see anything in advance that's not gonna be good, we need to intervene. We have a possibility through two systems, not through one. I ask you to be constructive in the debates and experience of all this, to be critical of what is wrong and to correct, but to build up the system, not to tear it down because it's definitely the easiest thing to do. There's nothing to destroy the system, there's no wisdom in it. But knowing about politics is important building functional systems, not solving individual problems. Every one of us who gets caught in the trap of solving individual problems has made a mistake, but it's important to leave a system that works in the long run to the people. We'll support this law at the GLAS club in the first reading. I hope you will appreciate these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71211	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. You have your glasses left, so here's when you get a chance to take them. Okay. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71212	The Honorable representative of Hrelja, the system of these pension funds, or the second pillar, was introduced in 2002 during the time of the SDP government. And as counterpart Bunjac said who actually had a choice not to enter that second pillar did not enter, only a few insurance companies accepted that offer, an offer that would later lead to all pensioners who had pensions across the second pillar having fewer pensions. Anything you needed on your part to help pensioners who are now in the second pillar, to have bigger pensions, whether you are opposed to that second pillar, but you support that second pillar even though the pensions these insurance companies will have are miserable. You said it was important, I quote, that the system is long-term sustainable. I'm asking you if the system is long-term sustainable. In fact, the state has no money to cover its expenditures, take loans, or sell these bonds, to whom, to those pension funds. 56 billion kuna property of pension funds, the mandatory ones are, in fact, debt. So where will the state get those pension funds back 56 billion kuna plus interest? Out of nowhere. And you actually know who's the only one profiting? Profits varying, he earned Todorovic, he apparently took hundreds of millions, it will never be returned to the funds, i.e. The funds gave him and profited by these managers who manage these funds, they profit and ordinary citizens unfortunately just lose. I call upon you this opportunity to rebel against this system too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71213	I thank my colleague Pernar. The answer of my colleague Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71214	Unlike a populist who was not working with the people and for the people and as a union leader and as a representative of the Croatian party of pensioners and it is my job but not my retirement profession but to watch the systems work. I wasn't talking about the long-term sustainability of the system, but I was talking about that we need to think long-term about the systems and that's the important difference we're talking about. And that where one pillar stops, it starts the other and vice versa, and that's that, that it's intertwined and not every pillar for itself. Secondly, you need to know that the SDP government did not introduce the second one, passed the Law on Third-degree Pension Reform but was done in 1998 and the law came into force in 1.1.1999 and that in 2002, the SDP Government set up a second pillar as it is today. So, things have been agreed much earlier with the consensus of all the social partners to go into retirement reform, though without public debate, please, today these social partners, a part of them are being made unskilled and they say they never knew. They took part in it. Look, don't talk, he's in charge of the robbery and reporting. Here's what you do, the one who robs, reports it. Look, report to the one who's robbing right now, but don't talk about things you don't know about or when they started or how the wheel starts the second wheel. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not here to mess with you, I'm fighting in my own way for pensioners' rights, for system improvements, and I'm not a destroyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71215	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like to ask you not to disturb your colleague while he suits you. And you colleagues do not respond to these intruders because then you use too much time and even you are in a negative state. [[I'm not intruding.]] But fine, we'll make it up next time. Next replica, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71216	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelja, you mentioned REGOS and now some kind of tape about reporting. If I'm not answering, I'm not actually cheating, the HZMO application is given by an employer. Since, unfortunately, one bad climate was created around that whole story, people are quite uninterested, the logical thing would be to have an employer fill this out to give the employee some form, give him the most basic things and choose the fund and then the employer make that application and make it the first step. And that will be the most effective step. We'll see what happens. Why would it be the most effective step? So when people realize that different funds have different contributions, that different administrations work differently then they will become interested and start thinking for themselves, given that they are active participants in where it would be worth investing in. It's an investment in the future and so... And if we go that way, I think we're going to have results because the only ones who, in principle, when they start working, offer some kind of information are the people they're counting on, the ones who hired him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we did it that way, I think we'd do a good job. And as for these discussions, we are unfortunately at the wrong time discussing the wrong things. So when the report on the work of companies for the management of compulsory pension funds, then there is an opportunity to ask all questions. And those questions can't be answered by people from the ministry. They've just passed the law, they've decided by law who can do something. Well, when those who do something come to the assembly, they all shut up, you know how. Yes, we ask them questions, we solve them because we're basically the only ones who can ask questions because unfortunately insurance can't do that to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71217	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker, my colleague Hrelja's reply, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71218	My colleague Shuker, immediately with this, I say in advance with this second part, and I agree and the intention was to commit pension societies that manage compulsory pension funds to publicly explain their annual business here and contribute because they are doing business in the public interest, regardless of what private companies are. And as for this decision-making, look, I'm distracting you and that we recently had a debate here in our first reading on the Central Insurance Register where we gave them the same money they received from these FIA pension companies, they're receiving, we've given them additional obligations to communicate with the insurance companies. So let's connect these two laws. I don't think that what you said as a suggestion that it's bad, but we went one way, we gave that assignment to REGOS, I'm just asking that it be communication, that we don't put a man in a month's time before a done act, but to give him the choice, and then let's tell him, listen, you didn't decide in the 2nd month if not that day we're going to determine where you're going to go, just please, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71219	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71220	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, you said and I agree that pension societies must manage better, you thought and safer with our resources because pension societies are not sacred cows and are not untouchable, and we could see and hear that when they had here their reports of pension societies in November 2017. However, this bill also proposes a better risk management system, given all the circumstances and in the open market that are taking place in this bill. And it is now stated that pension funds establish a comprehensive and effective process in assessing the creditworthiness of the issuers in whose society they intend to invest. So now they must not only rely on the credit ratings of that society, but they must themselves, now they will have to carry out these own credit assessment capabilities of the issuer of financial instruments. And I think it's a good thing that these guys are making it a little bit more work, that they think a little bit more about where, how, and how they're going to invest. I think I got this score right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71221	I thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71222	Yes, that's right, my colleague Babic, you said this exactly, I have nothing to add, but I can illustrate it on a plastic example. So the pension funds were doing well with the corporate bonds of Agrokor and they made quite a contribution, but we're saying that five years ago, and the last one was sold two years ago. Teachd by this experience, they watched Ledo and Jamnica rating for the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the rating was quite solid, but they did not check the other fact that these companies pawned the Agokor bonds which practically resulted in losses because they were guarantors and downs. Of course, this must no longer happen, and in this context, I was talking about a possible later mind, which doesn't have to be bad in the finals. One fund went worse, it's seen from his annual donations, the others pulled out of that position in time. Look, we were making a fuss last year about it all year, and I don't remember anyone in 2008, 2009 when all our securities went down 25% to sound. This is not absolute security, not even the first pillar is absolute security. What if we don't have an economy, if anything happens, there's absolutely no security. We picked that model, if we don't have anything better, let's build it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71223	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71224	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrelja. So you've opened a few important questions, I'd start at the end, so I don't doubt that you're going to have that full support and me personally, I hope members of my club for these 27% for those people whose individual capitalised savings are not enough to secure them a decent pension because here, journalists have set an example of a teacher who just because a year later was born had a significantly lower pension than a teacher who left a year earlier in retirement. But we can't turn the thesis here, in 2002 it's going into pension reform because the system was unsustainable, not because the system broke, but because it was unsustainable. And one of the key indicators was that we had fewer and fewer workers, so less and less insurance for those who were investing in the pension system. It went to this variant 15-5%, and now that's the happiest thing that's ever happened is a question for discussion. Some have suggested what to do if, after some time, it is abolished to return to the first pillar. But here's the experience of Western countries saying that here I'm going to list Holland, Iceland, Australia, Finland, UK, USA, Chile, Canada, all the countries that have over 60% of the fund's assets, above 60% of the GDP of the funds. The data is old, unfortunately, but it's good for us, it's good for us. Croatia then had 9%, now according to this data Croatia has come to three times the amount, 30% of GDP in funds. So it is an opportunity for Croatia to take out a pension system in which the first and second pillars will be complemented so that workers have a suitable pension. And just to end, in Germany they have problems, now they're writing their newspaper that people will have significant problems, and these are people of my generation who, in ten, fifteen years' time, are going to retire threatening serious poverty, especially for people who have had lower incomes, who have been out of work for a long time. So no system is safe, but we need to build a system that will be more favourable to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71225	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71226	Thank you, colleague Sagar, for your thoughts. Yes, it was in 2002 that I remember it well there were speeches about whether it should be nominal or that GDP growth should be real growth 2% and more, maybe I was wrong, but it doesn't matter, we'll later, that an increase of 5% should come in some period of 10%. Yes, this is for economic support, and there are problems we should discuss. It is possible to support the economy, can invest pension funds in the economy, I was speaking here from this pay phone that the port of Gruz is in view of a project that should pay back the money for the next 40 years, so that within 10 years the investment could be paid and the next 30 years it could be in the incomes of pension funds, that it is a nice project that should be taken by our pension funds and not by various Turkish-French concessionaries to take it. I would fight it, against someone else getting when we have capital here because that capital, that 5 billion is in kuna every year, not everything in bonds, and societies have to point it where it's going to go, but the state has to give them, so the state, the government, has to give them good projects. Good projects that have income for the next 30, 40 years. The peace funds, they're not interested in projects for a year or two or even having astronomical profits. It's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71227	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. We're moving on with the debate. Individual discussion, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. And one replica from before. And then I apologize. Excuse me, Mrs Grozdana Peric. We have another replica. Dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71229	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrelj, in your statement yes, you were talking about the pension funds first and second and I think it's all not bad. And what you were saying was there's room and it's fine by me. However, knowing that our society, our country, our people still today have a system where one works in retirement. We always look at our comfort. It's important that I retire, that someone else works for me and I pick you up and I'm comfortable. It's that little comfort that's in the moment and our people are using it in most cases. If they or did lose jobs, they had to retire in some way. I don't say it populistly, because I've been doing it myself for 41 years in the economy, I'm not a populist. But then you mentioned Scandinavian countries. Yeah, but one culture of people is the culture of the people, where it's completely different. They think ahead. We're thinking right now. We don't think ahead. Here, the case that Pernar's brought up now, that same lady should have let go of control, to see if she has or has no television, but here, I won't let him go, but I'll talk about something wrong. It can't all be wrong. We must all have responsibility together. We're a state, every man for himself. I'm in favour of helping, but also so that everything should be taken care of and premeditated. But we've been here systematically, but it's not since yesterday, it's, I'll say again, for at least 100 years we've been raised not to work, to manage, to find ourselves, to be able to find ourselves in a blurry, to actually cheat on someone. And that must, this system must once stop, it must be known, what it is, we've been brought here where we've been brought and we need to start respecting the rule of law. I think it's time and let's say for once, we didn't, and it's our own fault. So we all have to take the blame in the state. Of course politics is always guilty, because it runs the country, no matter who it is. And that way... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71230	I'd like to thank my colleague, Micic. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71231	Dear counterpart Misic, this country has been through the war and the transition of the economy with the planning economy to the market economy in the past 27 years. Look, we can say whatever we want, but we had until 1993 to get an internship. So people paid a little, so they could have two, three years of internships, to retire. So we had one, bankruptcy plague at the time, where people were going rather than early retirement. So in 1999, we had 3,000 people with disabilities on pension care with some lower incomes than their pension, so let's retire. So we're separated defenders in retirement, they don't have enough internships. Look, and everybody wants to have the best pension. Look, the pension system, if we look at the original part that rests on the paid contributions and that transfer between living work and past work, can't handle it. And we all know and we don't have to pay our pensions, but we add the part that's missing from tax revenues. We're in charge of capital projects, highways, I don't know what. It's possible some time for liquid consumption, but not a priority for pensions, and it's a guilty presentation. We owe it to these people who have so smoothed this country, no matter what part of us have devastated to secure our pension, as much as we can. Of course there's no satisfaction, but that's no reason to go down everything we've done without trying to fix anything to make it work better and make better use of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71232	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. One more apology from my colleague Misic and your colleague, Peric. Now here's an individual debate, respected colleague Gorzdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71233	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, I'll relate to this particular story. The story of pensions, the pension system, pension funds, is a continuous and eternal story that will always interest all current employees, future pensioners, as well as all other generations. And that's something that every government, no matter what options, has to take care of, and it's shown that it's one continuity that can't be broken in any way. I would like our colleagues who are very depressed about all this anyway, not with us, if they know that only 14% of the current population of the pensioners have achieved the right to do so from full-time. So over 40 years, which is very little compared to having now in a mandatory pension fund system of about a million and 829000 taxpayers. That's very important, because when we multiply it just by that million and 800 then you see that it's only 256 people. However, just what counterpart Hrelja mentioned was that all this was happening during this period, in fact accumulated all these needs and all these pensioners must be taken care of one way or another. Just making changes to the law, actually follows the needs of society, the needs of time, to solve certain things for the better and to get that kind of thing, any other situation or any kind of earthquake or any earthquake in terms of either financial earthquake or other, to feel as little in pensions as possible. It's not even by chance what's been mentioned over and over again, that actually the problem of ageing, the population, is a big problem. There is a danger with us that the average Croatian pension will fall below 30% of what is compared to 30% of the salary from the west is 40%. Although it is now in these relative relations, Western countries have about 70% salary, average wages. We also need to know that when calculating contributions that is the highest now for 2018 gross salary can be, or the highest monthly basis for calculating the contribution is 48 120 kuna and the maximum annual is 577 000 and something. So you can ask any one who works for more than where their money goes that they contributed to that total system and they pay in, so maybe they have a salary of 50, 70, and more thousands of kuna. So it's the same kind of solidarity that fills everything someone else's low wage hasn't achieved. It is certainly the goal of every government and every system to create the best conditions for basics to be as much as possible, to make the wages as possible and that this system is actually complemented in quality and that ultimately there are as many employees as possible, that it is not 1,2 but that it is preferably at least 1 to 2 if not more, that the system would actually be sustainable. When we talk about pension rates, then we have to say that this law has also defined that the highest pension can be 3.8 times the lowest. So, all those who make higher wages, so that would make them have a big pension, he won't be able to achieve more than exactly this ratio. Therefore, it is important to say that everyone else knows that there are no infinite pensions but there are limits. Now, compared to the changes in the laws and pension funds themselves, the law has changed several times and certainly demonstrated in a certain period of time the need to change in 2014 and then 2015. etc., division between funds. What is important for the funds themselves to say, that Article 22 is important that 10% of the net asset value of the pension fund can be invested in securities and other forms of derivatives, therefore, the securities themselves which, in order to achieve actually certain security in investments, and also so that the maximum of 5% of the net asset value of the fund can be exposed to the same credit institution. It used to be only 3%, now it's 5%. So, every change makes sure that the exposure to someone else is as low as possible, that the risks are as low as possible and that here, as it is proven, that we saw through the pension funds reports, is actually very high, and when we say that the net assets of all these funds are over 89 billion kuna, then we have to say that in the A fund there are around 569 million kuna, in the B fund over 85 billion and in the C fund 3,68 billion. So, in all of this it is important to say that it is very important to take care of exactly the risks, the investment, the maximum investment, the possibility and, of course, what the law mentions and what it says now, that this must be well controlled, so that the State Audition, that the State Control Agency must actually take care of it in a way that is the safety of both us and future generations that the system will work and that we will all have pensions still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71234	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. We have one replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71235	Dear colleague Peric, you said that there are a million and 829 198 contributors, that is not true. There are so many insurance companies, and in that number are some who once worked and now they don't work, maybe they're out of the country, etc., so they're not bonds, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're insurance. As for those who have high salaries in the Republic of Croatia, please drink coffee with Mr. Shucker, what you said above the amounts, they can get 55% next year through a request for more paid contributions for this year with a tax payment of 55%. That's where my colleague Shuker and I split up, we never agreed, and I think they should contribute to the Generational solidarity system because they're kind of privileged because they have such high salaries and they're neither on their grandma nor on their uncles, and I'm not sure that all the salaries are for real money and the company they run, possibly and that their workers are very well paid. There may be someone among them from the Agrokor system, from some companies that have failed. So, I'm saying colleague Shuker is here, he must know all about it, so he'll explain everything to you but these money hasn't been dropped. And secondly, we have a system here one well-intentioned correction of what you said we have a system of lowest pensions and highest pensions. There's no one. All pensions and the lowest and the highest are tied to years of internship. And just to supplement one saying that you said pensions are important at over 40 years of internships, because that average pension is almost 72% of the average salary. And then no one can say that retirement depends not on salary and the entire working life. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71236	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Answer, colleague Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71237	Thank you very much for all the corrections. In fact, what I found was a million and 829 insurance companies in mandatory pension funds. I may have misrepresented myself, and it is true that it might be better for all those who have high wages to contribute in this way because in the long run, we may not lack money for certain or health care, for example, because we can then parallelly draw the parallel of one and the other. But in any case, it is now subject to the current legislation, so these are the maximums to which it is mandatory to act in this way and everything else is regulated by the Income Tax Act and the like. So here's for sure my colleague Shucker has a lot more experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71238	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on this subject, you could write stories about what it was like, what was going on. But given the time away and this large auditorium that is in the assembly, I will try to stay in principle, try to detect what the legislator has tried to do. I don't think these changes are just being offered by directives and certain legal changes. I think that, I can say freely, colleagues and colleagues from the ministry have tried certain things that have been pretty media-exposed lately, which is the investment of pension funds and certain doubts, so install into the law for a simple reason not to be vague tomorrow. And it's a commendable move anyway. Although perhaps a lot of the issues raised here today should be asked when discussing the report on the work of companies for the management of compulsory pension funds. We've been chasing societies a lot around here today, chasing funds. It's heaven and earth. It's different things. Well, maybe this is where a man who's been in finance for a long time takes a look at some provisions, then seems funny to him, but apparently the legislator also wanted to install in the law that someone is obliged to check some other things. Because we were witnesses in 2009 that the first ones on their knees were the ones who had the biggest credit rating. So two financial institutions that had the highest possible credit rating when the financial crisis began in their lifetime fell to their feet. Also, I have spoken here in this assembly many times, and I believe that the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is far higher than the one which, by the time we get into the EU, is your credit rating because you are not an EU member, you are risky. Then when we joined the EU, they did not reward us for our credit rating by three, four points, but the existing ones began to lower us because of the economic crisis. That's why credit rating probably isn't a measure of any kind. But I do, since people who manage pension funds on their results, I think they have other channels that come up with information about the state of assessment and assessment of these companies, to base certain investments. Honestly speaking, they're probably choosing some investments that didn't deserve to maybe make companies invest money in compulsory pension funds. And that's why this provision is put into law that they have to carry out additional checks of good. It is also good that we have installed in this legal, first in the Law on Audition, and then this law and that is the obligation of independent auditors to make a revised financial report for the simple reason that when someone comes to the side of things, the thing looks far more realistic and far better something that someone looks inside. Unfortunately, he looks at the roads through some kind of pink glasses because he wants to show it that way. And that's why this provision is good. However, what I want to say openly here is definitely with this law we open up the possibility for companies to manage compulsory pension funds to get into some more risky jobs than it has ever been before. It's just a fact. Why? Because when you look at the amendments to this law, 90% of the changes relate to companies for the management of compulsory pension funds, and only around 10% refers to mandatory pension funds. There's basically no God knows what to change. I've been talking to my colleagues. Maybe we should think about some things by the second reading. And for us to work together in the future, I don't think such legal proposals need to go into two readings. It's a waste of time, because here, essentially, as far as the law of a colleague and a colleague is concerned, nothing changes. We're changing certain technical provisions here. However, what is the basic postulate of this Law on Mandatory Pension Funds we do not change. And I think when we talk about the Rules of Procedure and our work, it would be far more effective for these laws to go into one reading and then to make amends to things correct. What do we do? We will now make proposals here, the ministry will consider it and then will, will not adopt the same thing we could do through the law. So, what I said about REGOS from experience I think it would be best to start with this application being resolved by employees. The other thing that works is the truth. For the first few years, the work of REGOS was paid out of the state budget and it was not a small amount. That was a little less than 100 million kuna. I've had years and years of resistance as a minister to force companies to manage compulsory pension funds that is their cost because they use that data, they're not used by the state and they're not used by the state budget, so if insurance companies are taken from their own, practically smaller money from their personal account, that would be the cost of managing pension funds, all the techniques that are needed in addition, should practically be the cost of it, so that this amount of REGOS work and we're not, my colleague Hrelja here, I refer to your part, we didn't exactly give REGOS so much work that they wouldn't be able to do this part of work. And secondly, what I suggest to everyone is that, I was the last time there was a report on the work of mandatory pension funds, asked that question, so I think that because of our citizens and because of this High House, I need to ask people a question that they finally say it's personal savings and that it's hereditary. So we have the character of personal savings, then it remains to someone like your account remains in a business bank, and so on your account in that retirement fund management company, these money remains, and normally, if it isn't written differently by some desert debate, it belongs to the heirs as it is divided. I think it's a fact and that's the difference between the first pillar and the second pillar. And I want to say something else, and I want to say something for the truth because if anyone went out there publicly when there was a crisis that had to be lifted, it was me. For the simple reason I thought at that point that 40 billion is more necessary in the state budget than this. But I want to say something, colleagues and colleagues, the real effect of the second pillar of retirement will be seen somewhere only in 2022, 2023, 2024. Then there should be a reduction, let's assume that the matter is not dynamic but static, that it should be an annual pension payment of 36 billion, then there should be an annual reduction in the annual pension cost of about 5.6 billion kuna. Then you should come because why? In 2002, all who were over 40 years old were required to enter the second pillar of retirement, so they are expected to be male in about 22, 23, 24 years, which women go to retirement and get part of the pension from the second pillar and then will see the financial effect. Until then, there's speculation. And something else, when it started in reform, and when it started in 2002, it was said that by 2008, the amount to be allocated to the second pillar would increase to 10% points. However, because of the situation in the budget, because of everything, we have planned, given that in 2008, we were close to the surplus of the state budget, that we will do so when we get into the surplus, but unfortunately there has been an economic crisis and what is a real danger and that should be said openly, the question is how much with 5% we can expect. But there's something else to say. And that's that the average salary at the time of the retirement reform, and today it's about 1 to 2, almost 1 to 3, because in 2000, we're not going to take a '98 either. In 2002, the average salary was below 3 000 kuna and it is like this today, so these are very systematic, methodical things and when we talk about what the situation of the pensioners will be, we have to consider all this because I would not want our dear future pensioners to be intimidated because I don't think it's just as well because of the trauma that our grandparents have at this point with low pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71240	Thank you, fellow Shuker for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71241	Comrade Shuker, I hope we agree that this law, in one sentence, gives more authority to pension fund management companies with increased obligations and protection from risk. So, very briefly. I think that's the essence of these amendments and the addition of the law. I give you more authority but you are obliged to reduce the risks or risk investments. Comrade Shuker, I told REGOS that the same law was in the first reading and that just in that first reading we gave REGOS for the same separation from... Income fees, that we gave them more work, and I can, among other things, do this job that this law provides in quality communication with new insurance companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we're not asking them to make prospectuses that society has to work, we're not asking them to inform on annual contributions and on assets in compulsory pension funds, but to just animate people to decide which pension fund or pension fund they're going to take. And I absolutely agree with you that we should continue to talk about what is being saved if someone doesn't have a pension because if they experience retirement it is known that it is hereditary, which if they don't experience it, is its savings or not, we also have to talk about fashion fees that use Swiss... tables that are not adapted to Croatian society and about many things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are open issues that are not related to this law but are for the second pension column.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71242	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrelja, in my debate in principle, I tried to tell you in a plastic way what's going on here for the simple reason that tomorrow someone wouldn't say something like this, like that. Why? Well, we heard the story today, someone bought these and those shares, and now you can think of some jerk sitting there in the management of a mandatory fund management company, he went, bought some lame stock, so it's up to him to use this street rhetoric "suck" so much and so much money and nothing. And we've now nicely incorporated that provision into the law, so tomorrow when we file a report, we can say, let's see your analysis when you invested in what you did, what you checked. It is more because of this than, because I completely doubt that someone who has invested in it is all cunning old foxes that they did not know what the situation is, the other thing is not Croatia one such huge market that we all don't know everything about everyone. And secondly, I'm constantly interested, I'm really going to ask for it when it's next, how much they lost on Agrokor shares, how much they lost mandatory pension funds. I'm just curious. So let's see how much you've invested in which shares and ultimately whether they're still owners because I remember them, they bought everything and they didn't have any big losses. They had the biggest loss of 2009/2010. when the economic and financial crisis was in full swing, they simply could not influence it. And the other thing, which will happen, given that we have defined them that they have to invest so much and so much annually in the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia, here we are, given the historical time of low interest rates, the Croatian state is now in debt at 2.75-3%, and perhaps it will be less. So we're making them invest the money where they're made 3%. We can't call them tomorrow to account for why it's not 5 or 6 but 4%. Because we also defined by law how attractive it was a few years ago when the bond yield was 5.5-6%, so now it's no longer attractive. So these are the things we have to think about. But I repeat, this is a law of great numbers. Excuse me, just one sentence. And very dynamic and therefore let's not keep an eye on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71244	I thank Mr. Shuker. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71245	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected state secretary with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Since that's a lot of being said, and since Mr. Schucker has actually systematically explained this bill and he said well that this law should not have gone into two readings, but so we decided because there will be no amendments and in fact there will be no pension funds, it is more relying on pension societies. Actually, I just want to explain. Four years ago, when the law was concluded, it was now divided into a mandatory pension fund law and intergenerational solidarity and a voluntary pension fund law. Something Bunjac spoke about it, and this is the third pension column where the country subsidy is actually about 15% maximum year-on-year to 750 kuna. So, this part about categories A, B and C, that's what Mr Hrelja was talking about, so there's no point in repeating everything, but it's also worth saying that at this point we have a million and 829000 users and actually the funds that are related to pension funds of almost 90 billion kuna about how and how they were spent and we had a report in the autumn of 2017. It may be important to once again highlight certain things that are dealt with by this law. Therefore, regarding pension societies that can also acquire shares in another pension society, termological coordination related to the E-edition, and this is very important, and this is actually talking about the alignment of the central and other Contracting Parties, as well as the member of the system of alignment – which is important. Then, pension societies that have to expose an effective credit assessment process, this has been discussed, so now they have to do their own credit performance, which is quite good and reduces a certain risk. In any case, I also welcome this with regard to the deposits of funds with individual credit institutions. It's good to be in more places and it doesn't really need to put all the eggs in the same basket, and given that I believe that the HANFA was involved in this and that the HANFA as a supervisory body that actually controls a non-banking financial sector wants to actually protect itself because of the preservation of stability itself. So that I don't owe any more, I think this is a good thing, that it's a good thing that these changes happened and that they're actually going to help with the mandatory pension fund law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71246	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. He's not present. He's losing his right to debate. We have a closing word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71247	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretary with associates. So, I'd like to say, finally, that the pension societies or the manager's fund to be the most accurate yearly take 300 million kuna fees. In about 5 years, they will have one entire Croatian budget. Every year, they take 300 million, so count on what the funds are, as someone gets rich at the expense of pensioners who, therefore, have pensions at the level of social cases. This is about how the pension funds are successful in the world, but why? Were they successful in Chile and Argentina where they brought the pension system to the very edge of the collapse? Why did Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary lift the second pillar, compulsory and turn it into a voluntary one? Why did Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia freeze investment in the second pillar if he was so good? Otherwise, we have an interesting phenomenon here that even current and former HDZ ministers agree that the second pension column should be turned into a voluntary one. And that's very interesting. So the ministers know what's at stake, and they even sort of agree with me, but they're powerless to do it. Here we see an interesting thing that we in the Living Wall keep repeating, and that's that there's someone above government. Someone more powerful. And these are more powerful, therefore, banks, these more powerful are interesting lobbys that simply don't allow anything to be done against their narrow material interests. That's why we have cases not only of a second pension column that doesn't have much use for it, but also of cases where we don't have a GMO declaration, that GMO food is freely sold and many other harmful decisions that are not for the benefit of citizens. If you really want to create a stable pension system, the only right thing we can do is open jobs. That's the only right answer. And to that end, we should invest every kuna, not feed the fat geese in retirement societies. What is the purpose of even paying pensions or stories about some 2030 and 2040 if we are all going to move out by then or at least a working citizen if he will move out of Croatia. Who's going to be paying off those funds? We need to survive 2018 so we can plan 2040. Also, if the issue of the pension system is to be resolved, many employers say up to 30% do not pay contributions but work in the area they work on so-called. The gray economy. The issue of preferential pensions, early retirements should also be resolved. And what does the pension and ministry suggest? She says extend the citizens to work until 67. So we, besides 200 thousand unemployed, will continue to work until 67, making there even less jobs and even less jobs, etc. Some pension societies explain why they invested in Agrokor, why they invested in Nexe Grupa, why they invested in Luka Ploče, Petrochemy, Center Bank, Credo Bank, Ingra, Magma, Optima, where they all made losses in billions of our money. They can do it, and you know why? Because management members, fund managers will always have the same salary of jobs in a pension fund, positive or not. They're not at risk, they're not at risk, there's no responsibility, they can do whatever they want. What it sounds like is that this statement that is getting more and more in practice every day. I would also ask why it is not allowed to work on representatives of workers and pensioners to sit on boards of pension societies? Why doesn't HANFA allow it? Maybe it's just that he can use that money the way he has it, without any real surveillance. Finally, I call on all MPs to consider why Croatian pensioners today have the lowest standard in the EU and whether this model of pension savings is then positive or actually negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71248	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this final word. Final word on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71249	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It would be best to ignore all the attractive facts that are spoken and not reacting, but I don't think that's the way in life, it should fight for the truth and tell the facts to the public, so whether or not you understand the public, whether you loved pulsism or didn't like it, but people should face facts. I'm not a pension fund lawyer, I'm asking them to work better, I'm asking them to be more careful, I'm asking for better pensions, I don't agree that they'll do 2025, but 2035 will certainly get rid of it, with more certainty I can say that than 2025. I'm asking you to tell the truth. We can't say that fund managers collect 300 million kuna of entry-exit commissions are also funded by HANFA and REGOS, so whatever they say we can't say that they burned it and that they shared it with themselves because it's simply not true. We can pass a law in which entry-exit fees will be reduced to a minimum, but then we will finance both REGOS and HANFA as a regulatory body from the state budget. So we can say whatever we want, we can like whoever we want, but these are facts and these are things that are based on legal regulations, whether they like it or not. And you need to know that the business of mandatory pension funds and companies that manage them doesn't have much effect at this time on pensions of the current pensioners except for those 150 that were said to receive pensions from the second pillar because they were worth it and because they were paying it, but at some point it was cheaper for them because they had and they had the right to choose again which we have given them as legislators here. It didn't just come from itself, it all came about about the pension funds here in this house all the changes in the law. And I'm not happy with you fellow Bunyan who thinks that everything we've done so far is wrong, that now it's just the truth that you're trying to advocate. And that truth is quite unverified, unfounded fact, and this is not my argument with you. But I'm asking you not to deceive the public and point out the wrong facts and create a destructive climate because I've been listening to this story about freezing, about the destruction of pension funds for years and from the works of retirement organizations who think that if this collapses, they're going to have a bigger pension. The peace is calculated on the basis of the payment of contributions over the years from the first pillar. It may be that in 1999 someone established the initial current value of pensions low. I don't think anyone's going to make it right today. It may be, I'm not saying that everything in this process was ideal, but that's how it is and equality is a user of rights both by generation and by all. If I were you, I'd be much more determined that these new pensioners of the second pillar of payments on principle, equal rights for equal payment of contributions for years only get 27% in the first pillar. This puts them practically in a position to respect the constitutional principle that we are equal rights to equal obligations or contributions. I'd appreciate it more if you were fighting for these people, because what you're complaining about, over the fate of the pensioners, which I know well, can bring you political points, but these are very cheap... But surely you will not help them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71250	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. We have two replicas, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71251	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Hrelja, you obviously think that you have some copyright on the question of the pensioners, because you're called a retirement party. Well, there are other people who have contact with the pensioners, and eventually my parents are retired, so every day they can see with their own eyes, how they live, what problems they face. Here, if you want, right now will end the assembly debate, I'll take you down here to Ban Jelačić Square, where the pensioners are digging through the trash cans, and we'll talk to them, so you explain to them HANFA, REGOS, all of those terms that you've been using here effectively. Well, they'll finally ask you, Mr. Hrelja, you have 5 kunas. So, basically, this whole story of yours doesn't solve anything concrete. People are curious about how they're going to survive today, people are interested in where they're going to be warmed up, people are interested in what's-his-name, where they're going to sleep, and many of them, unfortunately, are living in a very big suspense. I'm also sorry that you're sleeping in your ears while I'm talking, and after that, you're commenting on my speeches, that I was very well during my debate on behalf of the MP club explaining how the second pillar affects the entire society, not just the future pensioners. So, payments to the second pillar form a budget deficit. At this point, the public debt, due to the second pillar, has increased by one-third. When public debt rose by one-third, excise duties increased, GDP growth slowed down, the number of unemployed increased, emigration increased. As soon as you reduce + number of employees and increase emigration, you have less payments in both the first and the second pillars and the third pillars. And this is a direct consequence for you, therefore, of small pensions and the dissatisfaction of the pensioners. If we had more employees, if we had less public debt, there would be more contributions, it would be more pension coordination, etc. So it's all the law... To claim that this situation in society now has nothing to do with pensions, so it's just not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71252	Thank you, comrade Bunjac, for the answer of my colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71253	It's you, Comrade Bunjac, sitting in your ears while I'm talking or you want to get the wrong idea, but I never want to interfere with your work as a historian, and I don't interfere with you. But don't ignore in any case 15 years of work for pensioners and dealing with pension problems. And I tell you openly, that is all we have done as a Croatian party of pensioners is little for the pensioners. That the situation in the pension Corps is very difficult. But fight instead of dealing with macroeconomic predictions, as you said before, fight, solve a particular pension problem. Take it and deal with it. For example, those who now call me or dig into containers, we'll solve it either through the pension system or through the social system. A stable state has systems that solve problems. You want to handle it, you'll have my help. That you explained the macro-economic movements. This about these people you're talking about, they won't bring any more pensions, but we can talk about being ready as a society to say, if it's a pension system, insurance for old age and illness, that together with me, you'll vote, that the pension will stop in 70 years. We want to agree on it, it'll solve a part of poverty, because it's part of the system and the system will work. But that you're going through retirement care, don't. Don't be in that delusion, and don't spread, really don't spread populism, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71254	I thank you for your answer to my colleague Hrelja. We have another replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71255	Thank you very much. When we talk about pensions in Croatia, let's go to the Department of Statistics and then '93. When it was that, when the four zeros moved away, see what the average salary was and based on it, to argue. Because I don't think shooting like this takes us anywhere. We had another thing the other day, here to discuss amending the REGOS Act, then they could ask the representatives of the ministry to tell us how much the REGOS cost. The second thing, when we have an annual report on the work of the companies, on the management of mandatory pension funds, there they are inside, they wrote everything, so let's ask them how much you cost. So if it's true, that they're coming in annually, with the management of those funds somewhere around 5 billion kunas. If their fee is 300 million, they cover compensation for HANFA and REGOS, then their cost is 6% of what they've been coming in for, encumbered the funds. So let's finally discuss the facts, about it, today to discuss whether or not it's very difficult. So if someone thinks that some things need to be changed, set up an amendment to the law, so, to reduce the fee for managing compulsory pension funds, that REGOS shouldn't look like that to finance HANFA in some other way. I'll tell you that from the 2004, 2005 and 2006 budget work REGOS was set aside somewhere around 90 million kuna. So to manage with a thousand and seven hundred and some more user accounts practically, where you have some very, for the most part a very large payment dynamic. Well, after all, last time the secretary of state said there are 300 million findings in continuity that can't be deployed and it's not that easy. And nothing fell from the sky, anything cost, but let's ask a question when it's time for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71256	I thank my colleague Shuker. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71257	I agree with my colleague Schuker that we need to discuss this story when the HANFA report is, when there is a report on the operation of compulsory pension funds management companies. And when it's on the table to amend and supplement the REGOS bill, or maybe tomorrow we'll have a report, the REGOS report. There isn't, there's no dilemma, but we can criticise it, but let's be constructive that if we take something from someone else, we have to give it from another source to make it work. Whether the system is just the smartest set up, we can always open up about it, whether we have to have modes, whether we can set this up as a pension insurance company for, to be precise and clear about paying off pensions, or if we can do it as life insurance so that they can receive payments and pay off payments at the same time. I'm not the one who'll give and offer an answer but all together, the government, the ministry, the HANF, all those who deal with it can give us an answer if it's possible to avoid one, one cost, is it possible to avoid entry fees that are diminishing, when I save something, that reduce my pension that will be worth it. About that being discussed, I agree with you that we have a lot more questions that are open and looking for an answer but it's actually only in the function of improving the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71258	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Silvan Hrelja. We have the final word of Ms. Majda Buric's honorary secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71259	I thank you, first of all, and I thank everyone for the heated debate, and I believe that first of all, the pension system is a very serious and complex area, and that it is in this way that a serious and responsible way should be approached. I am pleased that most agreed that the second pension column should be strengthened rather than broken because of particular, populist, and personal interests. In addition, I think it is necessary to say that the second pillar should be given a chance, since the second pillar of maturity is well discussed here today, and that only after 20, 30 years, and since it was introduced in 2002, its best time is yet to come. In addition, I believe that neither present nor future pensioners should be intimidated, panic should be spread. The peace system is stable and this proves the regular payment of pensions, pensions that are not late for a day, so it will be in the future. What this ministry is doing now is preparing pension reforms that will be implemented in the second quarter of 2018 and aimed at the long-term sustainability of the pension system and also the adequateness of pensions. What should also be mentioned is that this government has provided 1.2 billion kuna to increase pensions this year, i.e. for coordination, which is 2.76% on two occasions and that this is the largest increase since 2010 i.e. that is a triple increase compared to 2016. I also believe that the spread of the apocalyptic thoughts that we have had here today, and I would say so, the babarogisation of pension funds and other pillars is not good at all, since this is really about one very serious and responsible subject, and a serious and complex subject, not only for the current pensioners but also for the future ones. I also think that here we should mention the facts that are wrongly interpreted, so the fact is that the proportion of the average pensions in Croatia is 47% and not 30%, as stated in the debate while the share of pensions in salaries for long-term insurance like Mr. Hrelja, 72%, and that only means that we should continue to remain on the labour market as long as possible since such pensioners have us only 19%. I would also like to point out that it is really imperative for all of us to increase the number of employees we have today by comparing naturally with 2013, let's say that in the year we are really going in the right direction because in 2013, the number of HZMO insurance companies was one million and 132,000 while today it is one million and 475 thousand insurance companies. In addition, I think we should mention macroeconomic indicators that are also misrepresented in some very dissonant tones or apocalyptic tones. So GDP growth is evident, 3.3%, while in 2013, it was -2.9%, public debt reduction, public finances that were never as stable as they are now, record tourist season, etc., etc. Once again, I stress, the imperative is really an increase in the number of employees, because when we talk about the number of pensioners we always put them in relation to the number of employees so that this relationship or co-relation would be as good as possible and today it is 1.21. I received two questions, what is the salary of members of pension funds, and then the issue has been reregulated or slightly rerouted, not pension funds, but members of pension societies. What is the salary of members of pension societies, so I think this issue should have been raised during another debate, and this is the debate on the report on the work of compulsory pension funds that we had in the Croatian Parliament in July 2017 when I represented the report as a state secretary. I had four colleagues from retirement companies with me, so you could ask that question directly, gentlemen, I believe you would get a satisfactory answer. How much will my pension be? It's also been asked a question. It doesn't matter how much my pension is going to be, what's important here is what's also said during the debate is how the pension counts and it's several times stressed and it might need to be repeated again. How much pension will all of us in the first pillar depend on an internship or on years on the labour market as well as on the level of pay, how much pension from the second pillar depends naturally on capitalising those funds in the second pillar. I think there is also a need to clarify the notification, so Article 17 of these amendments and the addition of the laws, where it is said that REGOS will send notice to all future new employees in order to disburse the provisional account, i.e. to reroute those funds to personal accounts as soon as possible, because the aim is to really end these funds in personal accounts and to capitalise them. So this notice, once again, will not have anything to do with any propaganda, but exclusively with facts and information, at the level of information that is very simply spoken and directed exclusively at new employees who should, within the shortest time, really choose their mandatory pension fund. If not then they themselves will be classified in the B category of a particular fund. Finally, since several times mentioning the impact of Agrokor shares on the pension system, i.e. sustainability, on the very system of pensions. I will only mention the following that the investment structure of pension funds is 71% in government bonds, 15% in foreign bonds and only 11% in shares. Economic experts as well as Mr. Grbovac from... He spoke publicly about this, and this is the information publicly available where experts said that the Agrokora situation does not question either contributions or the security of pension payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That investment in long-term stocks is long-term, we all know that the majority of pension funds portfolio is a very, very conservative investment, so I'm going back to those 11% that invest in shares. At the end of the 9th month 2017, all 4 pension funds had less than a billion kuna investment in Agrokor shares and then all the money invested in the Concern amounted to only 1% of the total assets and publicly available data show that pension funds were not lost due to Agrokor because they mainly sold out shares that were spoken of by gentlemen from pension funds when we discussed the report in 2017 and when they said that some of them and earned, a pension fund of 31 million kuna, another pension fund of 270 million kuna. So once again, these are publicly available data. Once again, I would really like to thank everyone for the heated debate and to point out once again that I am glad that most have really agreed that a second pension pillar should be strengthened rather than broken down by particular, populist and personal interests. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71260	I would like to thank the honorary secretary of state, Mrs Majdi Buric, for this closing statement. We have two replicas, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71261	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Well, of course you and Mr. Hrelja agree, you've finally raised your hand together for the budget, and there's still no official signature on the coalition, but it's informal and it exists like this, so maybe it's not necessary. I'm sorry that your party is using populism, so the programme crediblely announces bigger pensions that citizens do not see, announcing the establishment of an agrarian bank, which announces 180 thousand jobs, which announces a reduction in VAT that is not available. I'm sorry that you've announced a restraining order from the only home, an amendment to the executive law, it's nowhere to be found. So you used a very cheap pulsism to come to power and now you've forgotten all your promises. What you're doing is nothing more than giving up to banks because you only use their reports and if you had any real conversations with Croatian scientists, you'd read their articles, you'd be talking to pensioners' associations and pensioners so you'd know that they don't live well, you'd know those pensions are wrong. And all of your behavior, you would hear from their mouths if they were not a priority to you in any way, you are the priority of a protocol visit for which no one knows their meaning while you call Croatian citizens and their deepest aspirations marginal. It's a message sent by your government, and it needs to expose you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71262	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Answer, Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71263	Thank you. Honorable and esteemed representative of the Bunjac. The work of this government is best discussed by the results of this government that I just presented, if necessary, I will repeat. So once again the results of this government are what it says most about this government. Who I agree with or disagree with is what you stuck it on my nose, I don't think I'd even comment on. I think it's always good to work for the future and for the functionality of the system, so in this sense in which we speak, it's a pension system and the well-being of our present and future citizens. That I will always agree with anyone who has progressive, proactive, functional attitudes that can be applied in this regard. And as for your cooperation with the pensioners and pensioners' associations, you know very well about the National Council for Elderly Persons with whom we constantly have conversations. Here on Friday is the new National Council and we are very pleased to re-exchange our experiences and answer many questions, and we hope all for the benefit of both current and future pensioners. I wouldn't talk about the king of populism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71264	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric. We have another replica. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71265	Dear Secretary of State, I hope a lapus has happened. You said the pension reform would take place in the second quarter of this year. I hope you wanted to say that there will be a presentation of pension reform, because there is a procedure for first and second readings, etc. So I'm saying don't get it wrong that the express will be done, not without a public hearing, etc. Secondly, when I talked about Article 17 and about information by REGOS new insurance companies, then I only prayed that you put on the scale the speed of resolution of these money standing in a separate account and the importance of individual decision-making in which the fund will be defined. So that's why I didn't ask him to stay for six months, but to give time to do the procedure in two months because it's very important for a man to consciously decide where the fund will be to choose, not to automatically classify it. And in the end, it's not common, but a colleague of Bunjac could respect my age and experience and not replicate the secretary to deal with me. I know why I raised my hand for the budget, and when you solve the problem of 3600, 5200 pensioners, then call me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71266	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. The reply to the replica, Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71267	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Hrelja. I agree with you, therefore, regarding the pension reform, a reference to the parliamentary procedure of the second quarter of 2018. Here's to being more specific, but we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71268	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric, for her reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs Majdi Buric, and her associates, Meliti Čičak, the assistants of the Minister of Labour and Pension System, and Mrs Morani Derencinović, Ruk, Head of the Directorate for Investment and Pension Funds of HANFA. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning with work at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period from 2018 to 2020. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-14-0.u71269	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 285. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds and Others is hereby adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that we've mostly voted, 120 for, 7 abstentions, as proposed by Parliament's working bodies. The first hand in the air, dear colleague Glasovic. Here you go.
