ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66129	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! We suggest we get started. I see some have already given up, I suppose, for a break and that's our first. My colleagues and colleagues, we can do a little! The first one's a colleague of Lenart's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66130	Thank you, dear Vice President. Please pause on behalf of the HSS club related to the situation in Petrokemia Kutina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66131	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Glasnović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66132	Thank you. I'm looking for a break. I'd like to talk about the homeless issue in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66133	Thank you. Is there another club that needs it? Here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66134	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to highlight the responsibility of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic in the case of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66135	Thank you. Anybody else have any? Dear Representative Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66137	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66138	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for ten minutes on the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66139	Thank you. My colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66140	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break because of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66141	Thank you. Any other clubs? Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66142	Thank you, Vice President. I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the club in 10 minutes, the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66143	Thank you. Anyone else? No one. Thank you very much. So I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, the first representative, Željko Lenart, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66145	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatian public. Here, after a short time, we need to talk again about Petrokemia, about the situation in Petrokemia, about the decline in the value of Petrokemia since it is announced that Petrokemia can last another month, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding Petrokemia is nowhere near us. No one seems interested in Petrochemy, the fate of 1700 workers and the entire region of HZ and many car carriers that depend and earn money on Petrochemy. I wonder and ask Minister Dalic, is she only Minister of Economy for Agrokor because Petrochemy is not interested? I ask Minister Maric, Minister of State Property what is waiting for the state property to fail in Petrokemia since he is running from journalists? He does not want to give a concrete answer as to what would happen to Petrokemia, but simply by running into the car, he is moving away from such answers. I also ask Prime Minister Plenkovic what the government is waiting for on Petrokemia? Is it so hard for the government to give the bank a guarantee that Petrochemy can buy gas on the free market at market prices rather than 20% higher? I recommend to Mr Plenkovic that, instead of boasting in Brussels, he enrolls in five languages in the course of mathematics that he can finally sum up the kidnapping that his men and others are doing to the Croatian people, one of them is Petrochemy. Gentlemen, I'm Kutincan and believe that we Kutincans will be able to defend Petrochemy again if we need to be on the street. Last night I contacted the unions, the unions are as they say on your back legs, tomorrow they'll be at your door, and soon the Kutinci will be organized along with the unions as well as a few years ago to defend the stability of Petrokemia. I simply cannot believe that no one in the government of the Republic of Croatia is interested in the fate of 1700 workers, that no one is interested in what is happening to one of the biggest industrial, and also the last almost plants that the Republic of Croatia has. Petrochemia also depends on agricultural production because Petrochemy produces food for plants, for agriculture, and if we lose this product we will pay expensively on the market because we will not have our own strategic product. Remember Petrochemy, which has stopped and was the main foundation of the defence of the Republic of Croatia with its facilities, with its workshops, with its people, and today we have the Association of Defences of Petrochemia, who are also standing together with the Defence Staff of Petrochemy in defense of this industrial plant. Gentlemen, these are leftovers of Croatian silver that are worth less and less every day because it is obvious that the goal is to reduce the value of Petrochemy to that limit that it will be bought by several kunas. Then what will be her future? It's questionable. Today there's an interest in recapitalisation, I ask what's waiting for you? Why don't we do this recapitalisation? There's Borealis, there's INA, but there's PPD. Well, this way, I might ask Mr. Vrdoljak, if he could use some of his friendships to help Petrochemia stay in largely state-owned property, not become a private company. I appeal to all of you gentlemen, especially you HDZ gentlemen, because you have authority today, you decide what will happen in Croatia, what will happen to Petrokemia. Please, please, please, not to appeal to you but to ask you to put your head on a pile and start thinking about Petrochemy as an industrial drive of the Republic of Croatia that is very important for the Republic of Croatia and strategically, but also as its property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66146	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is Independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66147	Dear colleagues. I'd like to talk about a problem in Croatia that's getting worse this morning, that's the problem of the homeless. Every civilised society is measured by how it takes care of the weakest segments of society, these are children, of course, homeless. There's not much to talk about. Does Croatia have a strategy to reduce homeless people? I don't know if there's such a strategy? These problems are directly related to economic development. Now we heard the speaker before me talking about Petrokemia, but will there be better times for the workers? In the future, 30 to 40% will decrease jobs. Why? It's for robotics. And that's the key problem with us that we didn't coordinate from that failed state we didn't bring the education system into line with technology. The Germans have perfect twists, they've developed their technology system, and what are we doing? We're still out there somewhere in the gray industry from the 1930s. In Sisak unemployment has increased, people who are jobless 27% are in Sisak. At global UK level one of two hundred people is homeless, the whole family comes to a shelter there for the homeless. Chu Copenhagen which is ours, Denmark is some concept of a developed society growing 75% of young people since 2009 is the increase of 75% of young people on the street. I lived in Canada, America you have 50,000 homeless people in New York that's what you see, Toronto 3, 4,000, as you can see, these are of course different factors why people come there. You have a cube, alcohol, addiction, and in Croatia, if we have recently heard of a billion kuna being spent on illegal gambling, what about legal gambling? Life is ruthless, you end up on the street, it's hard to get back where you were. Croatia has less than 500 homeless shelters. You have people who are mentally ill, they didn't come there with their own guilt, they're not addicts, they're not gamblers, they're some psycho sick, you've got families who can't pay off their loans, you're up in the streets, and I'm wondering this, when was the last time this organization of veterans who represent themselves in front of the International Veterans Association and who's running it? You have international veteran organizations that care about assimilation of soldiers into civil society. I don't know the last time I heard that this association and the man who's been running it, has he reported in at all for the last 10 years in the media area on this matter. We can't keep everything on Caritas, we have 152 parish Caritas, 58 Catholic organizations, I can't cover everything. What are the local communities doing? If I can organize banquets there every year, omelets, fish nights like in Roman times there when the Romans are orgies, and I can't find one place to fix it, one place to accept people. I wonder, neither Caritas nor these Catholic organizations can do anything. In Zagreb alone, I think, about 2,000 meals a day, warm meals. What about Duudi? We have real estate held by the state, which can very easily be repaired and turned into shelters for people. Because the way society is going, I'm convinced that this problem will only get worse, we have to be ready for it. Finally, it bothered some here, when 200,000 kunas were assigned to a Catholic kindergarten and they didn't mind at all that the state gave millions of kunas to magazines, associations that spit in the Croatian state, it didn't bother them, but they were bothered by 200,000 given to a Catholic kindergarten. And the key word is "Catholic kindergarten", which black propaganda continues and we have to stand up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66148	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66149	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday's Committee on Economy on Agrokor, where the Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, Mr Ante Ramljak, was visiting, gave more questions than he gave the answer. Well, here are some questions. After almost a year of asking questions about who wrote lex Agrokor, those fifty articles, and after the minister even under the greatest pressures said that there was no such information yesterday, shockingly, simple answer I, I wrote that law, and what I didn't write, I gave orders or instructions, and then the legal service wrote it, agreed, and the waiter was wearing coffee, and he also participated in writing that law. I guess Minister Dalic thinks we're idiots so we can believe in that kind of development. So I don't believe a word of such an explanation that eventually, after months, comes down to here I wrote. Perhaps Minister Dalic understands that it was written off by Mr Plenkovic and he sacrifices himself and says here it is my fault or I am responsible, you carry me. Also, the minister could not answer about the Christmas loan to HBOR of 287 million kuna, the real estate stock was PIK Vrbovo, what is the value of this property? We do not know, personally I doubt that the value of this property is anywhere near 300 million kuna, so it was convenient for Todorovic at the time, while they were still good, it was convenient for Todorovic as all the other governments favored him in a way that they gave him much more money than the mortgage amount. The question we didn't get an answer from Mr. Ramljak, who was mourned yesterday with ashes and speaking of his misery, said he needed another 3 months, that it would take him another 3 months because 10 million had already been pulled through the Texo Menagment, now three more plus this 2 for March and April. 200 million kuna is total spent on advisors, solutions still no, whether there will be settlements or not, we don't know, everything is still in the air, money is day, results of concrete none. Yesterday, Mr. Ramljak did a great PR job to try to justify and raise this more politically and increasingly less economic and professional project that is going on. The question we also haven't solved is that Mr. Ramljak didn't explain whether he was employed or not, in what kind of relationship he's in, is that a fee, is that a permanent working relationship, is that a contract of action. He also didn't know when he stopped working at the Texo Management and when the papers and everything were solved exactly. If you go to the site of Texo Menagmenta, after a minute on the Internet, here you see the icon and résumé nice in English Mr. Ante Ramljak, on the 1st page is his colleague Tomislav Matic, a man whom he praised to have finished Harvard and then worked for barely 5,000 kuna in the same company. We could not refuse any of those two answers, which are very simple answers. Mr. Ramljak, if you're watching this, send us a contract to work with the Texo Menagment, so it's not so secret that we know that date. Why is that such a secret? The question we have not yet received is numbers, however it is clear that Mr Plenkovic is responsible for all these things. If you look at who sent the memos and who signed those memos, there is the name of Mr Plenkovic, I invite him to stop hiding behind his assistants, ministers, behind his Martine Dalic, vice president and for his commissioner, Government Commissioner Ante Ramljak, to come to the Parliament, as we called him a week ago and to answer why he guards people who are in conflict of interest. So just that Texo Management is the last firm in the world that has such services and such knowledge, you can't take it, it just doesn't work. It just doesn't work. And the key question, whether the taxpayers would pay the debts of Mr. Ramljak, was not such a question he could answer. If that wasn't the case, he could have just said no. Here, we have the Lex Agrokor, the taxpayers and the state are fully protected, it won't be. That's not the answer we got. We have received a vague answer which strongly raises the suspicion that there will be a large number of lawsuits and that the Croatian State and taxpayers will ultimately bear the costs of this whole process. How much more conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66150	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Boris will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66151	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here, this morning, two topics, petrochemicals, Agrokor, HSS suddenly cares about petrochemicals, from their position, opposition, were once power along with HDZ and made decisions and tried to worry in a way, to insult all those who make decisions in favour of petrochemicals, people who work there, that this company, this public firm, is doing, to make incomes, to make products. And big worries even threaten that they'll defend it on the street. In the past five years, the Republic of Croatia has made over a billion kunas for the INA for petrochemicals, so that it can work. Only in the last two years 550 million kuna, and in 2017. 350 million kuna. So much for not caring about this government compared to what's going on in petrochemicals. Who's worried? HSS. If it was petrochemicals, it wouldn't have worked. So much for that, because I believe, that these breaks are being abused, so that politicians who obviously read the newspaper daily, look at certain media, the second day, come with topics without any solution, to call the Prime Minister, warn about what should happen, and that no moves, when they could or should not have pulled, i.e. They ran away from every responsibility. And as for Agrokor, yesterday we thought that the Committee on Economy, the thematic session, on the topic of Agrokor and the situation in Agrokor, was sufficient in the form within which we could get some answers and that there would be no more breaks every morning before the meeting of the Assembly. And that we're going to ask those who have been asked for months to come to Parliament, to come to the board, to give answers, we start with the same subject this morning. What's the problem? The opposition went through yesterday, as they say, barefoot. Unprepared, completely unprepared, we've brought it down now, as we hear from the Living Wall, to the successful PR of an extraordinary commissioner. And there were good answers, there were expert answers to every question asked on that committee. And what's the problem today? Again, the dissatisfaction, with a picture that these opposition MPs, who wanted just such a session, unprepared, did not know how to ask certain questions. And when certain data were to be obtained, they were to return to the past. I was there the whole time, and they didn't ask any questions about the future of Agrokor. They're not interested in that story at all. They're investigating something that might be politically important to them, to catch a political point. However, the fact is that the answers were given. What was important yesterday, on that council board? And We have learned of the remnant, which is sent down a month. No secrets in Agrokor, no secrets. Everything can be brought out and everything is on the web when we talk about numbers, and now, after the expertise that was visible, it tries to put everything on the side of ethics. And it was important and clearly obvious about it both by the minister and by the extraordinary commissioner. And on the ethics issue, if I'm all right, I listened to it yesterday. What else was important and what bothered the opposition? What was said about the concrete results of lex Agrokor. And they say that now, all the companies, all the companies, are inside that concert in the good business process. 30 million euros in operational gain of Konzum over the past 10 months, compared to what we had inherited. All food companies, arbitraryly, products, everyone works, everyone makes money, everyone shares their own, everyone has salaries, workers work, all suppliers, small, quiet. What's the problem? Ethics. Now, in that space I say, perhaps the most important part to me, which I learned yesterday, and I didn't know about him, who and the large number of my colleagues is yes, is Mr. Petrov's first to call Mr. Ramljak to be an extraordinary commissioner, that the Bridge that voted together with HDZ is for that law, and that in the end it turns out that they are the most fierce critics of this man they first called and that law they voted for. That question of credibility let them settle with their voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66152	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Advocacy Lists' Club, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66153	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after a long time, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Government's Commissioner in Agrokor, Ante Ramljak, decided to go public, and here I have to commend the actors, well prepared, which they preferred, they responded. They thus made clear the importance of government intervention. They did not answer or defend themselves that they were not a walking registrator. But that's why we found out yesterday, fellow Boric, that Skegro is a genius. It means where they were supposed to answer, and they didn't know they'd talk in general with partial truths and sentiments almost in tears in the eye for almost five. But this performance has shown something indirect on the other hand. Andrej Plenkovic is trying to wash away everything, does not go into the media about this topic and pushes the first plan of the Deputy Prime Minister and Commissioner. That's enough to tell my colleague Boric how messed up, how messed up it is and how long-time associate Škegra and Martine Dalic decided to become MOST and HDZ, and here I see this morning and you point all the way in that direction. So come on, people, HDZ also wanted to excavate a member of the Krk National Park Supervisory Board and a housekeeper in the elementary school in the smallest municipality in Croatia. So who can think that they would let us run a 60 billion kuna company that they've drawn nearly half a billion kuna from in the last eight months on advisory services. Comrade Bačić, perhaps they were carrying this bag again. And that we have information about what's been going on there for the last 20 years, and they've, so you've shut us down before, or you've shut down the parliamentary investigation committee. In addition to protecting the comforters by closing the archives, this attempt to spin outsmart your comfort counselors and colleagues and I congratulate you. Although we threw out a number of restrictions on yesterday's study, we did manage to get some answers and new information. Commissioner Ramljak literally said on my request, the roll-up contract has 250 pages, so who could read it all. I didn't read it, let alone the Prime Minister. Dear fellow MPs, I am now asking you whether it is shocking for anyone else that the extraordinary administration has signed a nonreadable contract. Furthermore, yesterday we learned that there are agreed bonuses for advisors in Agrokor. Only one of them is going to get 60 million kuna bonuses for a possible success, and it looks like it's going to be done by former company Ante Ramljaka Texo management. Commissioner Ramljak didn't know exactly how much to answer. I have asked the author of the law, so Minister Dalic a simple question. What specific legal statements or institutes would improve from today’s perspective? She didn't think of anything. So much for her copyrighted search of every sentence of the Agrokor Act. Let me get this straight. Yesterday we received a clear confession from Commissioner Ramljak that he made a mistake hiring his former firm as advisers in Agrokor. This is in our opposition, and the whole public has been clear since the first day of the "Advisers" affair. The evidence has been made public, we all know that these Ramljak advisors, when they compete in the open market, earn 2,000 kuna a day, and when they work in Agrokor, earn 32000 kuna a day. I think everyone's smart enough, but unfortunately not our prime minister. He is still wise to weigh, analyze, synthesize, and is likely considering setting up a commission for advisory fees. After the release of MOST from the government of Boric we have a roll-up loan, while we have offered alternative funding. After MoST exits from the government, we have Knighthead Fund and advisory services. We have millions of dollars that are coming out of Agrokor and now it's clear why you didn't agree to three commissioners and why MOST had to be excluded from the control of these processes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't you think it's time for the prime minister to take responsibility for his people he has placed in his government and Agrokor, he often says it's his government, for the people he has given his trust. The public requires answers, and the PR and this kind of saviour spin isn't helping here. The problem of counterpart Boric, counterpart Bacic and other respected colleagues will not go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66154	Thank you. Before we continue, let me welcome all the expensive students of the school Ban Josip Jelačić from Zapresic. And now, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66155	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Committee on Economy. What will be based on the amendments of the Rules of Procedure I am convinced that this will become a practice in this House of Ours, the Croatian Parliament. And all those ideas and reflections that we had on the board and club meetings turned out to be good, that's the right measure. But what else could be heard yesterday, seen, seen, seen, and concluded, and based on today’s debates? In our political space, and most of all in this Croatian Assembly we have nothing but politics. We have the most politics. Many here take it as a right that it is not the role of Parliamentarians and this body should certainly be questioned, questioned, but not according to the model as the saying, "When you are sued, cadiya judges you". Yesterday's committee session was not a commission, it was not an investigative body, but it was precisely that the Croatian public was fully informed even though throughout the process of the administration through the media and through other and electronic media it was informed about all the processes. Unfortunately, yesterday, it proved to be the role of our parliamentary representatives, whose profiles we are. So it wasn't professional, it was a political question, and also what I certainly didn't enjoy listening to, and I trust the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and let's not ask ourselves, then, what are the reasons why citizens lose faith in politics. Comrades and colleagues, let us not afford to break down to another lower level than unfortunately that we are according to the reviews of certain media, the assessment of the work of the Parliament. It is up to us to question, to examine, to analyze, but to ask each and every one of us a specific question that our competences are for certain subjects. Yesterday we also had an extraordinary Commissioner and Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Dalic, who is competent to speak responsibly, objectively, realistically and inform us of everything we care about. But let's also analyze the questions that came from certain circles of us here in the Parliament. But I'd just like to conclude what's important to us at HNS, it's that in political space we don't listen to what we just heard, the accusations, unfounded above all, not on evidence, but on some personal judgments, and I would say to some of my creations or fictions. It is irresponsible, for this there are competent institutions, if we have certain arguments, it is our duty and duty to report it to these competent institutions that will initiate certain processes. Furthermore, in HNS, Agrokor is extremely important to us, and we have also said that in the debate on the law and we speak as we speak every day, but it is important for us to have a future. We need the company's future to function further, we need jobs to keep as many jobs as possible. Production, primarily agricultural, which is largely, although we may not want to admit it, and we are aware, depends on Agrokor, so the future is important. And appeal to everyone, let's leave politics, if we're talking about this House then we're talking politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66156	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted our usual morning session on different topics, so we can move to the agenda as planned. Honorable representative Alexic raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66164	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, I ask for a break to discuss the media's kind of blockade of yesterday's debate on consumer protection. It is terrible that such an important topic has not been followed in the media at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66165	If it's okay with you, can we give the secretary of state first to finish this point and then do it, if that's okay with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66166	... /Invader Alexic: I agree./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66167	Thank you. Then I would like to give my word to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Andreja Metelko-Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66168	Thank you. And perhaps inspired by this latest intervention she would like to say first that Croatian diplomacy Croatia is in the first place and the Croatian government and we are doing everything we can to promote the interests of the Republic of Croatia abroad. When it comes to relations with Canada, you have an agreement here with the EU and the Member States with Canada. When it comes to Croatia, we could say that with Canada Croatia has already established and has a special partnership precisely because when we look at all bilateral bilateral agreements which we have already addressed a whole series of issues that are of special importance to Croatia. We can remind ourselves that we have an agreement to avoid double taxation with Canada long ago concluded which is the basis for opening more free economic cooperation. Canada was a country that abolished visas in 2009, we have a social security agreement that allows for the collection of internships, pensions that are particularly important for the Croatian diaspora, Croatian emigration and Croats living in Canada. The relations of Croatia and Canada are particularly developed through our emigrants that make an important link, an important treasure. The fact is that many Croats live in Canada, but we also have cases when these Croats return to Croatia. Here's a colleague who's sitting with me right now in the government bench is a good and sacred example of that. The Croatian Government is carefully considering the issue of emigration, we have heard comments about the vote and perhaps just say that in this community the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which was held in September last year, there have been large debates on this issue and I expect and we believe that this debate will bring about some fruit, give birth to concrete ideas and suggestions on how to better resolve the issue between the other and the vote. It may not be bad to note that the new members of the Council have also been elected and that the Croatians from Canada, Mr Ivan Grbešić, has also been elected also president of the Council of the Government. I would like to thank all of you for your comments, especially those who have further explained this agreement, because it really makes one basis for a bigger, better, deeper EU and Member States cooperation, so that the Republic of Macedonia with Canada will be the basis for joint resolution and global issues of migration, terrorism, you mentioned this joint fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illegal arms trafficking, climate change of other challenges facing today's world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66169	Thank you very much. We have a replica of one respected representative of Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66170	Thank you. Dear Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad to hear you say that our diplomacy, that Croatia comes first. I'm glad to hear those words, but next to the word we're looking for work. Why was it never a question of the effectiveness of Croatian diplomacy that was the subject of the talks in this House? There's no such conversation, unfortunately. But here's an example some day. One coalition partner of this current government who otherwise trades well has nominated his man as high-ranking in diplomacy in the United States. On television, he tells our youth, our young people, that he doesn't have a school that doesn't even matter, even schools don't matter. Is this diplomacy, which will be the kind of people that Croatia will be in first place and who will make such interests happen. It's not safe. It is a shame for the Croatian state, for Croatian diplomacy. Therefore, I will repeat once again that over the past twenty years all political structures have worked most to increase the Croatian diaspora, one Croatia lives outside Croatia. After that, you gentlemen can't, you can't get away from all of you who've been involved in this, and you're going to have to lay down these same people's accounts for why you forced them because of your failed policies to seek their happiness and new life in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66171	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. A colleague, Alexic, asked for a break, so we'll meet again in 11.50 minutes. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66173	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you twenty as many of you here may be less. I have to talk about a kind of media blockade, but better said about media ignoring yesterday's debate on the National Consumer Protection Programme. So this topic is extremely important for all Croatian citizens because all Croatian citizens are consumers, absolutely all, even traders. And about this topic yesterday almost nobody said anything about this topic that is important for citizens in the sense that citizens expect some solutions from both the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, solutions that are possible, concrete, legal solutions. Instead 4,5 hours were followed by a soap opera around Agrokor in which citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot solve absolutely anything, absolutely nothing, that session served only for a political debate in which there were no future solutions but simply a state of what it is and which we all know everything about. And consumer protection is something that is most important in the EU, so the EU protects consumers from unfair contractual provisions by Directive 93/13, and we have been given the right in a collective court ruling that consumers are damaged after which consumers should receive some money in private processes. However, consumers do not go to courts and it is therefore necessary for this body to pass the necessary law here, to end banking self-will in a way that determines interest rates. No one reported it yesterday. The national consumer protection programme, or its proposal, is just a dead letter on paper, because consumer rights are then taking place when we determine some systematic breach of consumer rights, then there should be systematic measures to stop these infringements and to compensate consumers on the basis of violations of the law. But that's not happening. Last year I proposed two laws, one law would return overpaid interest to all citizens who were damaged by an illegal increase in interest, and another law would stop interesting Croatian citizens on the basis of illegally defined interest rates. Both laws were rejected here in the Croatian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion on these laws and the Government of the Republic of Croatia until today, despite welcoming it as a possible solution, but in another way, it did not propose its solutions. I sent Minister Zdravko Marić two variants of a new solution to suspend the interest of Croatian citizens, invited him to invite me to a meeting and my associates and to see if we can answer that question, I have not yet received an answer to my call. The Ministry of Economy refused the proposal of the Franak Association to put on the list of legitimateised consumer protection bodies which are entitled under the Consumer Protection Act to bring collective action in court. It was rejected for no reason because if someone is given such a ID, that someone is responsible for acting alone, that someone will spend their money on the procedure. Franak is one of the few associations that doesn't spend any money from the state budget or spend a little, but spent most of the money spent on membership members. So in the case of Franak, more than 500 thousand kuna were spent in total and all of this was spent by the Franak Association from its resources. What else did I do yesterday? I have called on the Committee on Consumer Protection to be formed through the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. This committee is extremely needed to discuss all these topics that I can only talk about when I take a break because such topics are rare in the Assembly. I asked for support for these laws from Mrs. Borzan and Mrs. Shuice's Europarliamentary and they responded positively to my initiative. So I'm publicly lobbying, I'm not lobbying under the table, I'm not negotiating under the table with someone for some drugs, I'm lobbying publicly for the interests of Croatian citizens. And the media completely left out yesterday informing Croatian citizens about everything that has been said here about the National Consumer Protection Programme. It's a disgrace to the media, but it's a shame to all of us who weren't even in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u66174	Thank you very much. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna take a five-minute break to get all the MPs to come to the assembly. Please ring the bell so we can call them so we can approach the vote. It's 11:00.55. So the first point is: - The final proposal of the Law confirming the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading., P.Z. number 284. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Mrs Andreja Metelko-Zgombic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71601	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. On 8 December 2010, the EU Council adopted a decision authorising the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to conduct negotiations on an agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other. Following successful negotiations, the agreement was signed on 30 October 2016. The agreement aims to strengthen political ties and cooperation on foreign policy and security issues by raising the relationship between the EU and its Member States and Canada to the level of strategic partnership and improving their cooperation in a large number of areas based on common values such as respect for democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, international peace and security. The agreement also regulates and provides the basis for cooperation covering the principles set out in the UN Charter and respect for international law, strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation within a broad range of policies such as sustainable development, research, innovation, education, culture, migration, counter-terrorism and the fight against organised and unethical crime. The EU and its Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, have an interest in improving co-ordination on global challenges, in particular by promoting cooperation in a series of bilateral, regional and multilateral issues such as maintaining international peace and security, economic sustainable development, judicial co-operation. The agreement will also allow parties to co-operate on these key issues and on third countries. For example, in relation to Syria, when it comes to the migration of Canada, the EU can strengthen mutual cooperation with Ukraine, for example. In this context, the agreement provides for a mechanism to conduct political dialogue by organising annual meetings at the level of Heads of State and Government, as well as consultations at ministerial level. We believe that this agreement will help to intensify cooperation between the EU Member States and Canada for the benefit of our citizens. Among the important areas of cooperation are culture and education where the Croatian Community in Canada is very active, and their experience and knowledge acquired in Canada can be applied in various sectors, especially the economy, for example in innovation and education. This agreement, along with the economically comprehensive trade economic agreement CETA, which was confirmed in the Croatian Parliament on 30 June 2017, creates additional potential to promote free trade and increase investment, strengthen cooperation in the field of taxation and other areas. I would like to point out that the bilateral relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Canada can be considered excellent. With a multi-colored Croatian community of 250,000 in Canada, every year we record a significant increase in Canadian tourists in the Republic of Croatia, which last year was 143 000 thanks to direct flights. We also enjoy a trade surplus with Canada, so in the first 11 months of 2017 the total trade swap was over 68 million dollars. The Agreement shall enter into force in accordance with Article 30, once the EU and each individual Member State, so and the Republic of Croatia have completed their internal legal procedures necessary for that purpose. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementation of this law will take place within the framework of the regular activities of the restor and there will be no need to provide for additional resources in the state budget. So far, this agreement has been ratified by 9 EU Member States, and I would just like to conclude that with this agreement Canada is joining a group of countries with which the EU is already enjoying a strategic partnership, which is Brazil, China, India and Mexico. I thank you for your attention and I am at your disposal for further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71602	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71603	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Metelko-Zgombić, with your esteemed associate... I am glad that in this replica, I can highlight some of the things that are related to these and similar agreements in a special way, stressing that in a country like Canada, one of the world's largest countries, the most economically powerful, perhaps not, some 36 million inhabitants, it is also important to emphasize that Croatians living in Canada, more than 250 000 of them who can actually be one excellent bridge between Canada and Croatia, so I am particularly glad that we are talking today about this point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is, in your introduction, you were actually talking about certain things that were related to this comprehensive economic trade agreement of CETA and everything that was actually made possible by this agreement. I remember very well the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in Canada, which was accepted at the highest state level through Parliament, Senate and the state of Ontario, where they are actually asking for our cooperation to be as tight as possible and better. I am glad that Croatians are very well integrated into Canadian society, I am glad to see here your associate Mrs Betty Pavelić, who is actually coming from Canada, who can talk a lot about this and that these connections between Croatians in Canada and Croatia, are stronger. What really stings my eyes, which is, you said the EU Council made a decision in 2010, that political agreement, or the text of the agreement, fell only in 2014 to sign this agreement in 2016. So six, seven years working on a deal like this might be faster and we've heard, nine, in signing this agreement. For this reason, thank you for this information for this very important point, or the EU-Member States Strategic Partnership Agreement with Canada, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71604	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71605	I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71606	Thank you. Then there is the next replica of the respected representative, Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71607	Dear guests, I mean, that's what you've been saying, you've brought some data, we have 250 000 Croats in Canada, I think that data when we watch if there are so many Croats in Canada, as much as there is double citizenship, where there's such a framework that we know the censorship that are Croats,... The Croats, why they have to fly six hours to vote from West Canada, we don't have a consulate in Vancouver, and we have 40, 50,000 Croats there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are at some level excluded from economic and social development. What's going to be done about it because it's a two-way street? On the issue of Canada itself, I think there's a lot I can do to help, not only this economic, we're talking about economics, but also the creation of a functioning society. For example. digitalization of land books... Ontario completed the project 5.5 million particles, within 10 years, they took a private company to create a functional justice system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if I've been here 30 years and I don't know what system's been going on here, is that... Law, Commonwealth Law, Roman, socialist laws, and most people are the biggest factor, I wonder when this public administration will be professionalized here as you have in Canada? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know when you get that T4 tax form there, it's like you got a death sentence. There's nothing to do here because there's 30% of the gray economy. It is the creation of a functional system, integration of Croats in Canada and a two-way street, not only receiving from other advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71608	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists was to speak to counterpart Miro Bulj, gone, losing his right to speak. The next will be the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Kovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71609	Thank you, Mr. President. I warmly welcome Mrs. Secretary of State and her associate from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Beti Pavelic... I think that's still true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's nice to meet you. We've heard everything Mrs. Secretary of State has said about this EU strategic agreement. It has strategic partners. It's not with all these strategic partners. Mr Babic spoke about how long the negotiation process, ratification, confirmation, that is, it is a complex EU, 28 member states, so that each Parliament must ratify this agreement, must confirm it itself by the European Parliament, so that we do not have to wonder. But it has come into force to a large extent, it has already been applied since 1 April 2017, and it includes very important areas, cooperation, sharing, finding out that we share the same values when it comes to human rights, when it comes to fundamental freedoms, about democracy, about the rule of law, we have a mechanism of cooperation in the field of international peace, security. We are talking about economic cooperation, about state development, about judicial co-operation and we are establishing political dialogue. All in all, we can freely conclude that this agreement is very positive for the EU itself, and of course for only Croatia as an EU Member State. Mr Babic has already mentioned that we have several 100,000 Croats in Canada, which are corners. but also citizens who are already citizens of Canada. Because Canadians don't ask for leave from Croatian citizenship to become a citizen of Canada. We have and we have heard excellent relations with Canada and the President of the Republic was two years ago in Canada and last year the President of the Parliament. And what we can really say, when it comes to Canada, is that Canada is together with Great Britain, the country with which we managed to make a turn. We know how difficult this was 26, 27 years ago when Croatia started on its own. When we wanted to be a democratically free independent society, an independent state. With the English world, it was very difficult, quite complex. We may exclude it a little bit from the United States, but given the solidarity that exists in that English bloc, so that's where I think of the United States, Canada, Great Britain, New Zealand and Australia, it's been very difficult. We have succeeded with Canada, too, but before, if I am not mistaken for 7 years to reach an agreement on the visa waiver in Canada and the arrival of Canadians in Croatia, and it was a major breakthrough, when it comes to Croatia and Canada, but also if we are talking about relations between Croatia and the English world, because Canada was 2 countries in that bloc with which we managed to lift visas for Croatian citizens. And we have to especially commend this not only to the government at the time, which was the HDZ government, meaning from my party, but also those people who worked on it, I mean specifically the service of foreign affairs and the then ambassador of the Republic of Canada. We heard a little bit about the trade. We see increased trade between Croatia and Canada. We're in the plus. So we export more than we import from Canada. The number of Canadian tourists has also increased, i.e. tourist with Canadian citizenship coming to Croatia. Last year there were 142000, slightly higher, I suppose, although those who are Croats or origins of Croatians, who come to Croatia, but surely our Croats and among their counterparts, Canadians, who are not Croatians, spread the idea that Croatia is a beautiful country worth spending their vacation in. Canada is also a country, which is a member of the Peace Implementation Council in the BiH. Because of this, we do not care about co-operation with Canada, although Canada as a state does not have its own embassy in the BiH, but covers the BiH from Hungary, from which it covers both the neighbouring Slovenia. There's one aspect that's also very interesting, and that's judicial cooperation. We also know that there are persons in Canada themselves, suspected of war crimes, committed on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, during the Homeland War, and perhaps the ratification of this agreement will facilitate co-operation with the Canadian authorities, on this plan and extradition of those persons to the Republic of Croatia itself, thus bringing this contribution and facing the past and resolving the issue of the legacy of war, specifically the Homeland War, the war against Croatia that was fought. Mr. Glasovic spoke about the fact that we can work together even better for Canada, I agree with him. Canada is a state based on a Canadian society based on the principles of a pair of exellance, the principles of freedom and the rule of law. Because there are many Croats in Canada, where we mentioned several hundred thousand Croats living there. The possibilities and economic cooperation have now been increased based on this comprehensive, economic agreement, so-called CETA, with Canada, we can also really work together on the conversion plan, the long-term conversion of Croatia into a modern advanced free society that will be able to face its past as Canada does and as Canada also enables its ethical communities, i.e. citizens, their citizens who are being drawn from Europe to build a culture of memories in Canada when it comes to totalitarian regimes that were present on European soil. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the confirmation of this Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU, its Member States and Canada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71610	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you were talking about these good relations with Canada, but you also warned then that this Anglo-Saxon world was, in fact, restrained by those relations at the beginning, and in fact, the paradox is on one side that we had three ministers in those 1990s, at least three ministers of Canadian citizens, so it's so little in the opposite. But I wanted to say something else. Here you pointed out and I was initially told that in fact this strategic agreement highlights this value framework between the EU and Canada and it is in any case to welcome it. However, I think that the future agreements should take a little more care to say so about the selfish or specific relations of all members, i.e. that all EU members are in a level playing field, and that is to say that in such strategic agreements in the future, visas are abolished for all EU members. Here with Canada, it is not the case or that it is going to abolish double taxation so that not every member must then work on these bilateral agreements when it comes to strategic agreements between the EU and individual countries or groups of countries. In this way, we would get more balance and more protection of interest if you wanted all EU members, rather than some to be more equal than others. I also think that such a request should also be made to the Government, i.e. the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71612	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71613	Thank you, Mr. President. I absolutely accept what my colleague Tudjman said, saying that it was very wise of President Tudjman to put people in Croatian governments in the early 1990s, appoint people who were Croats from Canada just to soften that relationship, change the relationship between the Anglo-Saxon world and Croatia itself. And speaking of one of these ministers, we know in particular exactly what kind of relations were eventually established with US Defence Minister William Peri who came to his funeral. We had excellent military cooperation with the United States, which helped us to impose no sanctions after Operation Storm 1995, which we eventually got if you want informally in the form of a multi-annual waiting for EU entry. When you talk about protection relations, about the contribution of member states, the EU's negotiations with possible strategic partners, and I accept your thinking especially when it comes to the US-U, knowing that these negotiations have now stopped. We're one of the things that seems to me, that there's a secretary of state that knows better or more precisely. I think we're one of three NATO member states that doesn't have an agreement with the United States on avoiding double taxation. We would really like to achieve this especially when there is a project of a gas terminal, a floating terminal, because then it would be logical that US companies can do business easier in Croatia, which is more difficult now because people are taxing themselves both in Croatia and in the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71614	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71615	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Kovac, when you spoke about this comprehensive economic agreement, you said to the CETA Trade Agreement that the trade exchange had increased considerably. The truth is, compared to 2015, from $30 million to $68 million, but it's still a negligible amount, and I'll be happy when it comes to the 10th century, and it can happen very easily. The number of tourists from Canada has increased, it is true and should be said here that a direct airline has been opened since the month of June between Toronto and Zagreb. What we've been working on with Canada so far has been in the area of education, in the area of mah defence. However, this area we have heard from the Canadians themselves that we have to work on is the area of the IT sector, it is the area of agriculture especially of the food industry, Podravka, Kraša, meat industry, tourism and auto industry. And actually what we could hear from the Canadians they're very interested in Roman cars, about it very much speaking. Their university Waterloo knows a lot about it, and we would love for such things to happen between the Republic of Croatia and Canada, and that's what we're actually working on. Given your external-political experience and given your knowledge of this area, I think we're going in that direction, but it's up to you and us to do it even better and more intensively using words and Croatians living in Canada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71616	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71617	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with Mr Babic that the great opportunities for cooperation between Croatia and Canada are on the agenda of the economy, but most importantly it depends on our economies. They have to show one activity. There's nothing politics can do about it. Here you can see that we are creating a framework and bilaterally, but if you want between the EU and Canada whose member we are, I think of Croatia, depends mostly on the creativity of Croatian businessmen to strengthen this economic co-operation, not only in relation to Canada but in relation to other countries. I will only be specific to the area of Europe, so our first partner is Germany with slightly more than four billion euros, our colleagues in Slovenia have ten billion euros in cooperation with Germany, Slovakia has over 20 billion euros in cooperation with Germany, I think of the trade volume. Therefore, there are many opportunities for cooperation, we have already mentioned what opportunities are with Canada, but also in Europe itself. And here we have to count most on our exporters, our businessmen who have a chance to show their creativity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71618	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, unfortunately, the colleagues of the Bunjca have no and loses the right to speak. And before I move on to the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club on behalf of whom the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, let me welcome the students 13. High school from Zagreb who are just coming to listen to us. Here's a respected representative, Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associate Mrs. Parlic. My colleagues and colleagues. The agreement that we should actually ratify today is as an instrument de facto much more interesting than perhaps at first sight. Of course, that is why we ratify it as an EU Member State and the agreement is between not Croatia directly and Canada but between the EU and Croatia in this sense ratified it here. The EU currently has 10 agreements that could be called strategic partnership, namely relations with Brazil, Canada, China, India, Mexico, Japan, Korea, Russia, South Africa and the United States. Along with these partnerships, there are three partnerships with international organisations of the African Union, the organisation of Latin American and Caribbean states and NATO and three partnerships that are not formalised in any way, but are de facto a kind of strategic partnership with Turkey, Indonesia and Australia. Two are the main objectives and this may be particularly interesting for us, two are the main objectives of these strategic partnerships, one is an integrated approach. So strengthening to say, giving EU weight or EU Member States in these partnerships is another possibility of a specific approach to each partnership or, as is often called, taylor-made approaches, hence the approach specifically designed for each of these partners. So these agreements are not uniform, they are not equal for all partners with whom the EU has a strategic partnership. It's interesting that this idea of strategic partnership first appeared in '98. in relations with the Russian Federation, therefore, at the time when relations with the Russian Federation were strongly liberalised, and in the meantime we all know what happened and bring a lot of changes, but for the first time the idea of a strategic partnership appeared de facto in relation to the Russian Federation. The United States is primarily a strategic partner in the defence sense, therefore, in cooperation on defence issues, but both the US and the Russian Federation and Japan are strategic partners where this partnership is not based on formal agreements of this type as we do today. This exists now with Canada and Canada has until now been the signing of this agreement, which we ratified the trade-economic partner that we ratified last year and Canada was in that category of strategic partner that has no formal agreement as its basis, Canada and six other strategic partners with them were established a strategic partnership between 2003 and 2010, and it is also interesting that the de facto tecar in the Lisbon Agreement in 2009 for the first time this concept of strategic partnership was formally introduced into EU documents. Until then, it was an instrument that was discussed, which was used, but was nowhere to be formalized. So with the Lisbon Treaty, he is somehow formalized for the first time, and the criteria for strategic partners are for the first time. I think it is particularly important for us when we talk about the strategic partnership with Canada, this very diversity that this instrument provides, so the possibility of having different strategic partnership content depending on the other side So, depending on who your EU strategic partner is. 3 are key elements in EU accession to strategic partners. One is trade and investment. This was signed with Canada as far as Croatia is concerned. The second alliance is to promote multiculturalism and strengthen international co-operation. So one, say, political aspect. And the third is security cooperation. We also, when we ratified the agreement here on trade economic relations with Canada, discussed the fact that with Canada, the EU binds a whole series of political and valuable consents to say or agree on political and valuable topics and that it is possible and perhaps easier to define such agreements with Canada. Not only the trade economy, but especially this one, because this one has, this Strategic Partnership Agreement, de facto, focuses primarily on political dimensions, on cooperation on what I know, such as human rights, foreign policy, political co-operation, climate and climate change, arms restrictions, mass destruction bans, chemical weapons, respect for international law, international criminal court and cooperation with international criminal justice, cultural co-operation, migration, so a whole series of things that de facto have to do with political attitude. As you know, many of these things are in relations with some other EU strategic partners, they would be extremely controversial and could not be an integral part of this strategic partnership in relations with some of the other countries that I have listed here, which have this status either on the basis of equivalent, therefore not identical and identical, but equivalent agreements. Or based on some kind of arrangement that existed before these agreements were formalized in a way. In this case, therefore, in the case of Canada but also in the case of other countries with which the EU has a strategic partnership, some common bodies are also established, as you have seen from this proposal. Especially once a year, the Prime Ministers or the Government, the Joint Council of Ministers, the possibility of setting up other ministers' councils, so ministers covering other resolutions, resolution councils, consular protection, is not the kind of law we discussed the other day, but rather the possibility of, say, Croatia, without any special and prior agreement, permits and formal permits in Canada representing, in some places where they would not, possibly, be covered by their diplomatic consular representatives in those situations by some other EU member states and, of course, vice versa. So, there are a whole series of elements that are an integral part of this agreement, not because it is a standard form of strategic partnership, because it is not, but because between the EU and this agreement is based on it, and the whole instrument of the strategic partnership is adapted, therefore, but because there is a valuable and political closeness between the EU and Canada, especially on these topics, politically, which is much more pronounced and much higher than it is with other strategic partners or simply different in its quality than with some other strategic partners. And that is why I think it is important to keep in mind that this instrument, which the EU has developed and is still developing a strategic partnership, is not something where we can compare one agreement with the other and measure to what extent it is identical, or to what extent they overlap, because they do not overlap, and that is precisely their purpose. That it is possible to have a strategic, as a partnership, one as comprehensive as it is being transferred here with Canada, but it is possible for the EU to have a strategic partnership, which would only be limited to some aspects in which it is possible to co-operate with this concrete strategic partner. We think that this is a good approach and that this flexibility is certainly positive and opens up opportunities and therefore the GLAS and HSU Club will support the ratification of this strategic partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71620	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71621	Dear colleagues, I listened to a brief presentation, but I would only return to the key problem, it was the functioning of the Foreign Ministry, the last three decades. As it's estimated, if there's any channel reports, well poorly catastrophic, I'd... It's a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in terms of these, of course, are not introduced, today, it's not a topic, but strategic investment. Where are the strategic investment from outside? What about that Toyota factory that was supposed to be in Croatia in Lika and today it's in Czech Republic? What's up with that? Where are the strategic investments? I mentioned some kind of statistical framework for Croats living in Canada, 250,000. Who are these people, how are they feeling? That's what I told you before. We have a statistical framework for these people, their money power, knowledge, talents, etc. What about the consular presidencies, how do they function? I was saying a week ago that there were 2,000 requests in Chile for the return of Croats to their homeland and that on purpose was this party party, we know which and what was the matter with that? Those people are... People out there who aren't up to the job, if I don't know what we have out there, who are these people, if we've built all the bridges with these people out there, what are we asking them to do now? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They paid hundreds of millions of euros here, dollars, some houses mortgaged to send bullets to Croatia, what did we do with it? We need shame, we should be ashamed. And all the heads that were in power were, all, left, right wing of UDBA. My assessment is a total disaster, it is the biggest failure of one of the most tragic mistakes and the failure of this relationship to Croats outside the country. If there are 40,000 people in Vancouver, he has to fly six hours to vote, what are we talking about here? We've settled the foundations for it. It's a disaster. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71622	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71623	Thank you very much. So my opinion and grade is just the opposite of yours, and I think there's no room for shame here at all, that there's a lot of people who have done very well and quality work and there are of course, and mistakes. As far as strategic investment is concerned, we are unfortunately, it has nothing to do with the MVP, it has to do with the investment climate. And we are unfortunately on that investment climate scale just the other day published, dropped to more than 80th places, so 80th and somewhere, and while that's the issue of the entire government and the whole situation in the country, and until we fix it, it refers to the tax system, to predictability of the law, to legal certainty, to a whole series of things, to the functioning of courts, so a whole series of things that companies look at when they go to invest in a country. As for Chile, it's true that there were terrible backlogs there and additionally salty people, it lasts for many years, long before this government you're talking about, but I really get the circumstances that they were actually there at some point people who weren't good enough and they were doing this job effectively. It's not part of a political conspiracy. It's part of a clamper, I have to say. Where it is bad, it should be acknowledged that it is bad and needs to be fixed, and it has been improved and additional people are salty and I think today must be a much better situation, I hope because it has been repaired for a number of years, which is exactly one country in which Croatia has an excellent and very influential local, very influential diaspora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71624	Dear Representative Glasovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure, which article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71625	To stick to the subject, I said That we don't have the right answers, smoke screen. [[Intruder Reiner: Which article was injured, please?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71626	Please, let's not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71627	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state and my associate. I will not repeat the things that have been said for this speaker before me on this subject, which I agree with in principle. Therefore, the SDP will support the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Strategic Partnership between the EU and Canada. We think it's a good and needy contract. The EU needs to regulate its relations with other parts of the world and does so also with this framework agreement, especially at these times when much more intensive defence co-operation is being developed within the EU. It is important not to forget transatlantic relations, it is important to mention that they are developing in the context of NATO where Croatia must make its active contribution but also through such agreements between the EU and the United States that exist and here we are now getting it with Canada. With the contract that we have already confirmed in this House, CETA, we are getting a legal framework for strategic cooperation with Canada that corresponds to the Republic and it must also find its modus operandi and how to use this relationship arrangement for its interests. As for the service of foreign affairs, or diplomacy and its further development, this may be one relevant topic for the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Assembly but I definitely do not accept the flat-rate criticisms of diplomacy coming from parliamentary representatives either here in the assembly or in the media where diplomacy is demonized. It is only one state service as well as the Croatian military and Croatian police who are very often rising to heaven while diplomacy descends into mud, completely unfair. In the course of the Homeland War, diplomacy also played an important role and very dedicatedly fought for the country's international recognition on its front, it fought very hard to bring peace operations that stopped war events together with the Croatian military and afterwards for their departure and return under the full sovereignty of all parts of the country including Eastern Slavonia and Baranja. A lot of Croatian diplomacy has done, and should not be criticised but should recognize its merits and what can be criticised, these are governments and ministers who led or deputy ministers who led at some point diplomacy because of their policy, but the very professional service of diplomacy, I don't think it should be criticised if their work is not known and if you're not sent to their work, so I would invite not the parliamentary deputies not only here but also in the media to sit on the ball and think a little before they talk about diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71628	Thank you very much, colleague Klisovic. You've gone a little off the subject, but good. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I also welcome the Secretary of State and my colleague from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The EU and Canada are developing relations in one strategic way and this agreement that we are discussing today and that is likely to be ratified with the agreement of all or at least the vast majority of parliamentary deputies. Of course, as the Republic of Croatia, we were the third Member State to ratify that trade agreement, which may have been, in that political sense and trade itself, perhaps more prominently and certainly, extremely important. However, this agreement that we are discussing today also has this strategic dimension on the issues of political cooperation between the EU and Canada, and since it sets up a whole framework for consultations between the EU and Canada in line with summits, but also meetings of foreign ministers, as well as resolution ministers, also has a single parliament dimension. So one skeleton that will allow for a series of topics of migration, the suppression of terrorism but, for example, common views on climate change one interaction between the EU and Canada and international forums which, at the time of multilateralism, is questioned from different addresses, I think it has one additional value. I think that is the most important message of this agreement that we are discussing today, and of course, it has already said on behalf of the club, Kovač, what will be the position of HDZ, but I think that regardless of the party differences that this agreement will receive support from a large or large number of parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71630	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is one of Sanja Putice's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71631	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed secretary of state with the assistant. Here is the agreement, as well as the legislative proposal, which aims to strengthen political ties and cooperation in the field of foreign policy, security issues, trade, economy, in short to improve the overall relationship between the EU Member States and Canada in the strategic and this bill defined partnership. It should be noted that Croatia as a state has long recognised the importance and potential of co-operation with Canada because it was the third country to ratify the CETA agreement and also among the first to support the Canadian candidacy for an occasional member of the Security Council, and we expect support from Canada's President-in-Office of the Parliament during its visit to Canada for the Croatian membership in the OEDC. It has been highlighted in previous and club and individual debates in which co-operation with Canada has been taking place so far. It should be stressed that as regards international legal acts, the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Advanced Education and Technology Albert in cooperation with the fields of education, science and technology 2010 and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia and the University of Albert, Canada, which was also signed in 2010. I will say here during a visit to the Assembly of Canada that we were able to make sure that the Croatian community there is extremely active, and as far as this area of science and education is concerned, that at the University of Waterloo and today there are 120 students who learn Croatian, they have their own lecture groups. I think that the Croatian state is doing a good job here, that the Ministry of Science and Education supports and education of teachers who go to Canada, but not only to their personal education and seminars but also to participate in the purchase of dodactic materials for teaching Croatian language. As regards economic cooperation, it should be said that the Republic of Croatia encourages the operation of the Canadian-Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Canadian-Croatian Business Networks where Croatians also have a significant impact on the overall economy of Canada, so we said that the trade in goods was 49.2m euros in 2016, representing an increase of 32.8% compared to the same period in 2015, that the trade of goods with Canada was 31.5m euros in the first six months of 2017, which was 41.3% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. We also said that we have further space to improve the exports of Croatian products to Canada. What is crucial in Croatia's and Canada's relations is the relationship to the Croatian emigration community in Canada. Both countries consider this important link to be a number of Croatian emigrants who live there about 250 thousand Croatian emigrants and their descendants and are of course among the more influential members of the Canadian-Croatian Chamber of Commerce. More than 60 societies and associations of folklore groups, sports associations, traditional business associations are also organized and currently operates in Canada 19 Catholic parishes, which are the centre of not only religious but also social life of the Croatian community. It should be said perhaps from more significant recent projects in which the Canadian emigrant community invested in Croatia, it is certainly a reconstruction of the Vukovar Tower with more significant resources. There is, of course, space for military-defense, further economic co-operation, and certainly I personally want to highlight cooperation in the field of science and education in view of the quantity and number of students who still learn Croatian language at the annual level in Canada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71632	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71633	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, the distinguished MPs of Putica. CETA is a comprehensive economic trade agreement between Europe, the European Union and Canada and has provisionally entered into force on 21 September 2017. In Europe, 31 million jobs depend on exports. On average, 1 billion new jobs are supported by any increase in exports to the circus. Free trade agreements in Europe have proven to boost growth and job creation, so in the EU for example, the trade agreement between Korea and Europe has increased exports to Korea, of course by 55%. CETA offers EU companies new opportunities to export to Canada. European companies will save an annual Circa 590m euros in customs duties paid on goods exported until then to Canada. The benefits of CETA will be 500 million consumers. Except that Canada absorbs a large number of citizens moving from Croatia your information about the increase in economic co-operation since 21.9.2017 and which are competitive Croatian products that we can compete with in Canada and which we export the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71634	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed MP, Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71635	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed Agent Kirin. Here we are during the visit in fact Canada can be sure how few Croatian products are appreciated on the Canadian market, so now you know that I am not advertising individual companies here, but these are certainly Kraš, Podravka, these are our key products that we have on the Canadian market, and we have others, of course. Now I can't remember exactly what, but it is certainly appreciated that the Canadian-Croatian Chamber of Commerce is taking care of the promotion of Croatian companies that must be more intensive. Here is a clue of this and, of course, increased traffic actually co-operation and air Canada flights towards Zagreb, which will be regular from this year on. And the increase of Canadian tourists in the Republic of Croatia, so we should certainly work further in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71636	Thank you. The next individual debate is a respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71637	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So in the opening statement as well as in the exhibitions on behalf of clubs and individual debates, we had the opportunity to hear a lot about this strategic partnership agreement between the EU Member States and Canada. In fact, I think it's a very important agreement because it certainly represents one added value to the already signed agreement, so on comprehensive economic and trade co-operation, so on. The CETA agreement signed between Canada and the EU and Croatia, therefore ratified among the first three EU countries, which is also in a unique way and messages and Canada, that Croatia can have one reliable partner and that Croatia cares. I think very often when we talk about the trans-Atlantic partnership between the countries of Europe, that is, the EU at the first time, so to speak, there is a thought of co-operation with the United States. However, it should not be disturbed with the mind that Canada is an extremely important country in the world community, a country that is second in the world right behind Russia, a country rich in resources that Europe is debilitating. And therefore, in this one partnership, surely the EU can find its big interest. On the other hand, it values it genetically, Canada is very similar to the EU because it has, therefore, formed as a Union of former British colonies. The value of Canada is also very similar to the EU and can be an example, therefore also for the EU, and especially for these regions here, often referred to as Southeast Europe or the persuasive Balkans. Because Canada has actually managed to reconcile what we call ethnic and civic, has managed to reconcile multiculturalism in a way, so the implementation of a social democracy. So the very fact that the capital of Canada is Otawa is located on the border, so the majority British, majority British provinces of Ontario and the majority francophone of the province of Quibecka in a wider region is said to take care of these things that can, of course, be an example for Europe, as I said of our region. There's no need to talk about this agreement, so there's no need to talk about the details. All MPs had the opportunity to read and safely regulate many areas of judicial co-operation, of the rule of law, of the issue of combating proleteration, weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drug abuse, etc. Sustainable development and should not be settled with the mind, therefore, that Canada has never been troubled and among the first, therefore, supported this Paris Climate Agreement, on the protection of the climate on the planet, because there is, of course, also reliable... The partner and the EU, which insists on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to add here, and that is the Croatian dimension of these relations. I am convinced that this framework agreement on strategic partnership between the EU and Canada, and Croatia has opened up many areas for co-operation and many areas for better integration of Croatian emigration, which we heard here, had around 250,000 in Canada. I had opportunities and personally, therefore, in different capacities, in different positions, to get acquainted with the Canadian system and as a visiting surgeon I worked for several months in Toronto and as a health minister and as a university professor, visiting... The University of Kingston and I can say that this country can be an example to us in Croatia, how, good governance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An example of a good social service organization and a health system and, of course, I said, one example, a functional social system. So what we have not used in the best possible way so far, and this agreement can ultimately be an instrument for us, but also an incentive, and that is to use all of the opportunities that our apprenticeship provides and which provide bilateral and multilateral agreement. I'll just mention a few things here. For as long as I've known, for as long as 11 years, it's obvious that the agreement, or a memorandum, on the mobility of young people, whose task is therefore to get young people from Canada from Croatia, school and get work experience in Canada, or in Croatia. And the paradoxical fact is that about 300 interested persons from Croatia were, therefore, educated workers... in Canada, and only three from Canada. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that of those 250,000 of our emigrants, over 90% of them are Canadian citizens. So it's absolutely strange to me that we couldn't interest these young people and motivate them to come here to Croatia to gain therefore, work experience and education and the funds are secured. On the other hand, I want to say, question, economic cooperation. In the material that I received as a member of the foreign political committee, the data suggests that our shipyard on May 3rd, concluded a contract on the delivery of 5 ships, scattered cargo, with... By unloading, for one Canadian company, which was to be delivered in 2017. So far has not been delivered even the first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to show ourselves here as a credible partner in every respect, so also economically, in order to be able to profit from all the agreements that are available to us, and of course as we can see, we have the CETA agreement and now this agreement as added value, as the CETA Agreement has said. And finally, I also want to say, what has already been said here today, and that is the question of the integration of our eviction from Canada, which has a huge, patriotic, unquestionable potential, which has also been shown in the acquisition, the introduction of democracy here, the defence of the country, of its establishment. On the other hand, the fact that we haven't done enough and as much as possible is that these people are reintegrated into our social political life. I'm an election law. So, we must very quickly, therefore, if we are not already able to increase the number of mandates for our emigrants, because this requires the application of the Constitution, which is why there is no consensus here now, but it seems to me that there is a consensus for a letter vote. We must therefore, as soon as possible, work to ensure that these people, in a way and through a correspondence vote, are interested, therefore, in the conclusion of Croatia's social political life, because this will certainly enrich the country. And in the end, I want to conclude... Therefore, this agreement, which takes into account both the implementation and the implementation, provides for various institutions that will worry about implementation, is therefore, the Joint Committee of Ministers, the Joint Committee on Cooperation, if any trials occur, so all together, it is seen that this agreement has been conducted in one very serious way, that it is not just another, therefore formal agreement, but that it is very much taking into account its implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Canada must be a country to cooperate with, which should be an example for us. I had the opportunity to convince myself that in Canada you can be both a good Croat and a good Italian at the same time and a good Canadian and a good friend to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71638	Thank you. And the last individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, we are discussing a final proposal for a Law confirming a strategic partnership agreement between the EU and its members with Canada. I am taking the opportunity, to say the following, in the Croatian Parliament, I have not heard a conversation before, nor has a plenary session been held, about how dramatically the economic and political relations in the world have changed in the past 2.3 years. There's no talking about it. On the other hand, the arrival of US President Donald Trumpe has just been marked by these dramatic changes. It's leaving the current model of globalisation, and it's interesting that at first it was led by the United States. In such globalisation, one of the most developed countries, thus far, has achieved the most relevant interests. So they benefited from that. That was so-called. One-way globalisation. Croatia has experienced the very negative consequences of such one-way globalisation where others have always benefited more from us or from our damage. What does the President of America Trump actually say to the world? He practically through trade relations of new forms of international co-operation advocates strengthening protectionism in a way that replaces multilateralism with bilateralism. He makes it clear to the UN that countries should co-operate directly with countries. He clearly says to me the first place America, America first, but you representatives of other countries free to speak is my country in the first place. Is there anyone today to say in Croatia, from the ruling structures of Croatia first? Croatia in the first place? I didn't hear that. What kind of politics are we running? Of course, someone will say we are a member of the EU, but look at the MPs. The United States has moved significantly away from the EU. We have Brexit, the UK has come out, it is a big message to the world, and especially to us, which is the new EU policy. Is Croatia playing a role in achieving its interests or is it a small country, a country that will be pushed where it doesn't need to be. In each association, every country and project must first and foremost look at and realise their interests. Is that how it is today? It's not like that today. So look in the EU, Germany maintains excellent relations with Russia, why? The North Stream 2 will be built and therefore no problem. Hungary is building a nuclear power plant with the Russians, no. You could list a whole series of other examples. And what are we doing here? What exactly am I trying to say? A country that operates in a non-conceptional state and Croatia is in a non-conceptional state, it cannot expect any positive effects, effects by entering some projects and other associations. Why? Because he doesn't know what he wants and he doesn't have his own concept and development strategy. So that's when we speak logically and in some order, very clear and understandable. That's why that fashion came in, we want the OECD, then the Hungarians say you can't, you didn't do this, you didn't do that. I dream and want this Croatia as well as all other citizens who will become satisfied, rich because we have these potentials and where we will know what we want and where other nations, other countries will want to cooperate on that platform, so mutual interests that both sides will benefit from it. If I have recently cited these countries which therefore do not respect the EU's specifics and are functioning, then it is indeed necessary to say that Croatia must finally turn its way, it must have clear path, clear goals and I must trade and co-operate with all of us interesting countries. No one can stop us in that. We have seen the past days, weeks, months, years, from the east or the west that some try to impose and tell us what to do. If the President of America specifically said, he told others to watch your own interests, because we Americans are looking at our own interests, I think it's a very clear and pure basis for international cooperation, first of all, when we talk, I'm talking about economics. So, Croatia without other people's directives. The party Change Croatia advocates a change in such a non-conceptional state because we see no decisions being made at national level and especially at international level. We want to finally hold a debate in this House on changing global relations, on economic and political, on overcoming, on the new divisions that take place before us, in front of our eyes. We must not be passive observers or statisticians in such important processes. Do I have an example of that? Very clear. We gentlemen, four years ago and slightly more joined the EU. Did we have any clear plans on what we're going to do and where we're going to be? We didn't. Where are we today? As a nation, as a country, we fell even more than in 2013 when we joined the EU. Only Bulgaria remained below us in the EU. Why didn't those who forced it, I don't say we should have stayed out, but why didn't they define the interest and our way and become richer, more satisfying country? No one answered that question, let alone the responsibility. And as we hear it today here in the Parliament here, people are partially lagging at things, we have a diaspora in Canada, we have here, there. Gentlemen, you've been exporting these people around the world and now you're looking through these agreements at how we can work with them. Is that your policy? Yes, it's your policy. It's that missed policy we must finally leave. You've been exporting people out of this country, they couldn't find jobs here, they've been running away from the ops, from the blockades, and now you want to go into some clubs, associations, I'm not against them, but I repeat, a country that's in a non-conceptional state she can't achieve anything, do anything because she just doesn't know what to do with herself. Let's put an end to this kind of policy and defeat the political scene of the structure that brought us into this situation and as far as cooperation with the world is concerned, let's finally define who we are, what we want and who we represent and who leads us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71640	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71641	I didn't realize from your debate that you resisted this agreement because I don't think there's any reason. However, I think that using an agreement like this and accusing me of how much I understood the existing government in Croatia for something that happened 150, 100 or 50 years ago, I don't think it's okay. So our diaspora in Canada is certainly not a diaspora that has not been formed in the last four years, even in the last 20 years, most of our diaspora in Canada is a diaspora that has gone there since Croatia was Austro-Hungarian, then one and the other Yugoslavia and in fact we are all together doing the last 20 and a few years and we are working to integrate these people into the social political life of Croatia. And in fact, this agreement and only EU membership is an additional instrument to do it in a better way or in a better way than we have had before. So the EU itself is also an instrument for us to reintegrate our emigration into the social life of Croatia. In any case, we have to take care of how to stop people leaving today, but to accuse today's government so that indirect and such agreements encourage such a trend I don't think it's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71642	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Ljubic, I'll just tell you this, I'm glad you recognized yourself in those policies and structures that specifically exported our workers, our people around the world, and I understand that you are now defending yourself and trying to justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71644	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Alexic raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71645	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, I ask for a break to discuss the media's kind of blockade of yesterday's debate on consumer protection. It is terrible that such an important topic has not been followed in the media at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71646	If it's okay with you, can we give the secretary of state first to finish this point and then do it, if that's okay with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71647	... /Invader Alexic: I agree./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71648	Thank you. Then I would like to give my word to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Andreja Metelko-Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71649	Thank you. And perhaps inspired by this latest intervention she would like to say first that Croatian diplomacy Croatia is in the first place and the Croatian government and we are doing everything we can to promote the interests of the Republic of Croatia abroad. When it comes to relations with Canada, you have an agreement here with the EU and the Member States with Canada. When it comes to Croatia, we could say that with Canada Croatia has already established and has a special partnership precisely because when we look at all bilateral bilateral agreements which we have already addressed a whole series of issues that are of special importance to Croatia. We can remind ourselves that we have an agreement to avoid double taxation with Canada long ago concluded which is the basis for opening more free economic cooperation. Canada was a country that abolished visas in 2009, we have a social security agreement that allows for the collection of internships, pensions that are particularly important for the Croatian diaspora, Croatian emigration and Croats living in Canada. The relations of Croatia and Canada are particularly developed through our emigrants that make an important link, an important treasure. The fact is that many Croats live in Canada, but we also have cases when these Croats return to Croatia. Here's a colleague who's sitting with me right now in the government bench is a good and sacred example of that. The Croatian Government is carefully considering the issue of emigration, we have heard comments about the vote and perhaps just say that in this community the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which was held in September last year, there have been large debates on this issue and I expect and we believe that this debate will bring about some fruit, give birth to concrete ideas and suggestions on how to better resolve the issue between the other and the vote. It may not be bad to note that the new members of the Council have also been elected and that the Croatians from Canada, Mr Ivan Grbešić, has also been elected also president of the Council of the Government. I would like to thank all of you for your comments, especially those who have further explained this agreement, because it really makes one basis for a bigger, better, deeper EU and Member States cooperation, so that the Republic of Macedonia with Canada will be the basis for joint resolution and global issues of migration, terrorism, you mentioned this joint fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illegal arms trafficking, climate change of other challenges facing today's world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71650	Thank you very much. We have a replica of one respected representative of Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71651	Thank you. Dear Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad to hear you say that our diplomacy, that Croatia comes first. I'm glad to hear those words, but next to the word we're looking for work. Why was it never a question of the effectiveness of Croatian diplomacy that was the subject of the talks in this House? There's no such conversation, unfortunately. But here's an example some day. One coalition partner of this current government who otherwise trades well has nominated his man as high-ranking in diplomacy in the United States. On television, he tells our youth, our young people, that he doesn't have a school that doesn't even matter, even schools don't matter. Is this diplomacy, which will be the kind of people that Croatia will be in first place and who will make such interests happen. It's not safe. It is a shame for the Croatian state, for Croatian diplomacy. Therefore, I will repeat once again that over the past twenty years all political structures have worked most to increase the Croatian diaspora, one Croatia lives outside Croatia. After that, you gentlemen can't, you can't get away from all of you who've been involved in this, and you're going to have to lay down these same people's accounts for why you forced them because of your failed policies to seek their happiness and new life in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71652	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-16-0.u71653	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 284, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 127 votes for and 1 against the Act on the Confirmation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, has been adopted. We are now moving to the 1st point we are going to discuss today, that is: - The final draft of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Professional Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 250; But before that I see that we have reports. First call from a colleague, Glasnović. Here you go.
