ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98333	Dear Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen of the parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia has established a system of manufacturing, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment by the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was adopted in 2002. This Law established the management and supervision of the military industry for both defence and export purposes. The proposed law harmonises the provisions of the current Law with the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the Explosive Substances Act, and the production and transport of arms which also transposed EU directives into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Explosive Substances Act, and the production and transport of weapons brought into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in June 2017 have transposed EU directives governing the area of construction, modernisation, and the use of capacity for production and remonting of arms and military equipment. Therefore, this proposed Law is in line with the Explosive Substances Act and the Production and Transport of Weapons. The entry of the Republic of Croatia fully revived the application of the arms and military equipment codification procedure in accordance with... norms adopted as Croatian military norms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The use of these standards is mandatory for participants in the process of production, remonting and transport of arms and military equipment, and therefore it is necessary to implement the codification of arms and military equipment in the legislative framework, which has not been the case so far, so that it is proposed to regulate and control the quality and quality of arms and military equipment. The proposal for this Act in patent provisions reduces the time limit within which the MORH decides whether it is a confidential invention of interest in defence from 90 to 60 days, which speeds up the process of creating new and innovative products for defence and market purposes. The relevant Act on the Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment requires that the contract on the purchase of arms and military equipment with an foreign supplier, depending on the value to be obtained, may be concluded as an offshore programme. That provision is proposed to be deleted because it is in breach of the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council Directive. Since we have such contracts still in force in the transitional provision of this Act, it is proposed to agree, that contracts remain in force for the period for which they are concluded for their fulfillment. The proposed law also deletes the provisions on cold power, as EU rules on the free market as well as the real budget frameworks were inconclusive. Finally, the aim of this Act is to maintain the highest standards in the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, simplify their operations, and a clear, defined and applicable system of codification and quality assurance and control of weapons and military equipment quality. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98334	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have one replica. Dear colleague... Then we have two replicas. [[You can't hear it.]] I didn't see him with peripheral vision. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98335	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here you are, since you are a representative of the MORH, the public is interested in the data of how much this Velebit-18 military exercise has cost, the largest military exercise in the last 3 years involving 5500 soldiers, which you do not want to report to the public. I think the budget is a public document, we've all adopted it here or adopted it at the end of the year. The money is from taxpayers, so I don't think there's any need to hide that information because then all of this you're doing, these laws that you're bringing to the House are essentially losing credibility, and credibility is exactly what you're complaining about, what you put in the title of your electoral program, so please prove that you're credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98336	Answer, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98337	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking. At 13.00 today, the Chief of Staff has a press conference and will be informed of all the details regarding the costs and implementation of the Velebit-18 exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98338	Second replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98339	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I wanted to ask the same question and I am not satisfied with this answer. What does that mean, he'll keep us informed? You came here to the Croatian Parliament, you probably have this information, please tell us you represent the state you have your own budget, tell us how much it cost to get Prime Minister Plenkovic and Defence Minister Krsticevic to paint with helmets and the minister to walk around in some strange uniform, probably, as he would say, the uniform of the defence minister, some brown in which he walks around and lines up the army. And as the defence minister would say, security, community, military, security, unity, national security, security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98340	Do you want an answer or not? No, okay. Then let's move on, committee rapporteurs, would you like to take your word for it? If not, then we will go to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98341	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and colleagues, before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Production of Remont, Transport, Arms and Military Equipment. As last Mr. RH has achieved enviable and significant results in production, placement, weapons, and interests in the weapons and military equipment of Croatian production are growing continuously. Croatia can be seen as a leader in the production of pedestrian weapons. Our soldiers go on peacekeeping missions, fully equipped with weapons and military equipment of Croatian production. The Republic of Croatia has established a system of production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment. The law on production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment, and the law is in line with the EU acquis. In line with European standards, it is clear that 5 Directives, one regulation, one common position, as well as one common regulation for military goods have been applied there. By bringing the EU acquis into national legislation, there has been a certain duplication of production, arms and military equipment control procedures for first-level export purposes when the production and export procedures of arms and military equipment were launched. The entry of the Republic of Croatia fully revived the application of the procedures for the qualification of arms and military equipment, and the aim of this law is to introduce the highest standards in the production, repair and transport of arms and military equipment through a clearly defined, generally applicable system of codification and to ensure the quality and control of the quality of arms and military equipment. This law exempts economic operators with military and civil and dual-purpose products and refurbishment programmes from the cost of implementing measures, insurance and protection, the production of remonts and the transport of non-armament and military equipment. Where production remonting programs and military equipment are not in use. The proposed law also reduces the deadline within which the defence ministry decides whether it is a confidential invention of interest in defence affairs from 90 days to 60 days, which relieves the scientific research community, speeds up the process of creating new, innovative products for defence and market purposes. Of course, the amendments to the legislation will contribute to reducing administrative barriers to economic operators and scientific research institutions, as well as to simplifying operations related to the production, refurbishment and transport of arms as well as military equipment. We can only add that this law with its compliance, with directives, regulations and common positions, is also a law that further strengthens control as well as codification, but we can say that 28 of our Croatian companies that are export-oriented in the production of weapons and equipment clearly contributes to Croatian economic success that although HS product failed for 100,000 rifles, it succeeded with guns, which have built-in chips, which is an integral part of the qualification. The HDZ Club welcomes the adoption of this law, which is absolutely in favour of our manufacturers, equipment, weapons as well as the refurbishment of weapons, and we hope they will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98342	We're going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98343	Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. This law on the production, repair and transport of arms and dual equipment, in its opening section, states 2 reasons for the adoption, therefore, of two fundamental motives for the adoption of such a law. One thing is to comply with a whole series of directives and EU decisions at different levels, therefore, European institutions and the other is not to say harmonisation, but certainly to standardise regulatory relations in this law with legislation in the Explosive Substances Act, as well as in the production and transport of weapons. Looking a little closer to this law, I would say that the basic purpose or purpose achieved by this law is neither of these two things that are as the main ones. As regards harmonisation with various EU directives and the directives adopted since 2008, between 2008 and 2014, so 10 to 4 years ago today. The main thing to be said about these directives is to abolish restrictions on the amount of arms exports within the EU Member States. So one segment that's covered, but the purpose and emphasis of this law isn't that, that's what I'd say is one technical element in the law. As far as calling is concerned, and very often in the law itself and in the reasons it calls for the law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons, it is otherwise a law that was passed, or published 19.7. last year and the main one, I would say here is a kind of reduction of control in these operations of production and transport, the Ministry of Interior is excluded, but a whole series of functions here in this law are listed as no longer being regulated by this law that we are discussing today, so the Law on Production, Remont and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, because it is regulated in this second law cannot be found in that other law. I therefore think that there is some disproportionateness and that it is necessary to take care that some control mechanisms and part of the regulation that remains in the air are not being thrown out of this law today because it is actually not covered by anything else. If you read the law you will see that the core of the law, so what the law defacto does as its basic business is liberalization of production, remont and then traffic, but I would say production is here at the heart of the attention of this law. The liberalisation of production and remonts for different private, legal persons and crafts that will be able to produce and deal with repairs, thus by remounting arms to the military. And that's what we at the Voice and HSU Club find really problematic and consider a question that deserves to be explained a little bit and debated in this House. So I looked around the Internet a little bit, remembering that there used to be a Technical Service in Velika, which was mostly military aircraft, an Air Force Technical Service that had 890 and some employees, of which 30 were military persons, but the rest were civilians, let's just say that half of them were some service cleaning, which I know, some low-skilled jobs. It would still leave about 400 people who were highly professional and highly specialized precisely in maintaining this case in aviation, but maintaining military equipment. It's more or less angry as I know it, what about it, where these people, they've left some other people they've educated, passed on to them some of that knowledge, do some people within the Croatian Army exist who are as engineers, as experts in this business? I find it extremely questionable, not to say dangerous, regulatory which, a provision that Djakic mentioned by fellow craftsmen or legal persons, so companies dealing with remonting, maintaining military or military equipment, if they are dual uses, in other words, if, with military products and other equipment that is not for military purposes, they do not have to have control when they are working on other equipment. Now imagine the same people in the same drive working for, say, two months for the military, the next two months doing other jobs that they can do without any supervision or insight of that army. What happens at a factory where military equipment will be produced within the next two months? It seems to me, to be very mild, a little non-chalant, not to say quite risky about some security and things being done there and possibly new technological inventions and possibly even manufacturing and especially remonting military equipment. So in this respect, you're so casually determining who can deal with the remonting and at the same time liberate and who are dealing with the remonting of military equipment in situations where they're doing something else but as I said in the same space, the same people on the same machines. It seems de facto to me like one way this law pleases people who want to get on with military business. It's a lucrative business, big business. And in this respect, we need a little more clarifications and a little more guarantees so that this law can be supported. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law is the reduction of administrative barriers to economic operators and scientific research institutions. People dealing with weapons repairs and weapons production are not any economic operators that are highly specialised economic operators and are much closer or at least as close to security issues, national security issues, issues and security are individually not to be handled and operated by economic operators. And I'd say maybe the accent is bigger on this safety side. And as far as the scientific research part is concerned, it is clear that in the scientific research section, this surveillance and secrecy and patent research and everything that is done in this respect is crucial. So if the same people work in the same space for two months something that is for the military and what is related to possibly some patents and innovations in military equipment and after that there is no more control because there is something other than this law, we believe that this is really the opening of a space of great uncertainty, arbitraryness and de faceto possibility that by the operations of manufacturing and remonting military equipment, that a whole series of people who, by higher safety criteria, would not be able to and would not be able to function or at least be able to produce as much profit as they can if controls are not available and if they do not have to deal with it. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU club, if it remains only on this without very detailed explanations about exactly what this is about and the impression that it is achieved regardless of all the listed directives, is that it is precisely that, that a whole series of people can get involved in military affairs, will not support this law. If there are some truly enlightening reasons, we can think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98344	Now I would like to ask my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98345	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministry presidents. Today we are talking about the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment and how high standards should be introduced in this area, so I would like to analyse the current standards that we had on this issue. On the one hand, military production and refurbishment and procurement should be a professional issue, however, it is often shown that this is on the one hand a political issue, that they are very involved in the profession, even in political structures outside Croatia. But on the other hand, to involve stakeholders here, since everything that is related to weapons is spinning big money and where the money is spinning usually in Croatia at least the vultures of all kinds are involved. There is a number of indications that almost every business that is related to the MORH is located not only by stakeholders but also by employees of the MORH who illegally receive money, benefits and other material benefits. This is witnessed by a whole series of current affairs, one of which is the biggest one about buying 5 and remonting 7 moments 21 in Ukraine, which is an affair, which is the worst that is still going on. In 2013, Croatia also ordered these 5 moments from the Ukrainian state-owned company UKRS 5 Export in 2015 and the same company gave 7 planes on a remont. A representative of the Ukrainians in Croatia was Aero Partner. The whole business is worth about 150 million kuna, half of which fell on the purchase of planes and the other half on the remonts. It was a strategic business that depended on the defence of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia. The result of this job is literally catastrophic because the furniture for the remont was installed, suppliers were involved in corruption, members of the commission received money and gifts and Croatian MiGs came back wrong. As for the trial, Croatia paid more than a million euros per plane and 20 per cent of that amount was spent for each plane. It wasn't a remont at all. It was an airplane service. 4 of the 5 planes purchased in Croatia were literally dragged from a dump in Bulgaria where they were spent and watch out now, on these planes were typed serial numbers, which means that the planes were significantly older than they were shown in the documents. It's all proven black on white. As for the remont tender, the competition itself included parts that must be installed on the plane, which is by itself absurd because no one knows in advance what to do on the remont but those parts were also parts that were located on the Ukrainian warehouse of the company. Parts that should and should not and most interesting, parts that have nothing to do with MiG 21 but, say, parts of MiG 29 and other planes that Croatia does not have. Not only did Ukraine use the contract with the Republic of Croatia to empty its warehouse, but even later changed the contracts of the competition, so imagine it, in the competition specified that the planes in Croatia should be brought to Croatia by trucks and not to have to fly as it would be logical and as it is written in the competition. In my opinion, I don't think a comment is necessary. The affair erupted in public and even Minister Krsticevic began at the beginning of this year with a Ukrainian counterpart, the defence minister that those four planes were grounded, that they had no function at all and that they could not fly at all, so the defence minister did something amazing, he publicly admitted that it was true, that the remont was made criminally. And that's what she cares about. I'd like to ask the department's representatives here, what's the situation with those four planes, and can we get either new planes or new planes back? Finally, there is information that the defence ministry has never complained to the Ukrainian company and it sees that planes serve nothing. Did you complain, if you didn't, why didn't you? All of this, the SOA was notified but as a military-security intelligence agency, but as you know, at the head of that agency were thieves who were legally proven, nor are they currently in prison. Only later, at the end of 2016, DORH accused two people of corruption in this affair of being one of the seller’s representatives, or representative of the seller of Aero Partner and one of the HV’s brigades, because the brigade took 10 000 euros in bribes. And that's where the whole story stopped. No one's ever been charged after that. So the defendants are two people, like they were buying old Golf in New York, and now there's some small-time cash in there, not that it was about getting strategic weapons for the Republic of Croatia based on which we don't have an air defense today. So something incredible, so 130 million kunas are at least evaporated and we're judging two non-essential persons, two couriers for 10,000 euros and now watch the point in the end, the trial is closed to the public. Croatia still has cans in its warehouses, the pilots almost died because of these planes, and the question is, what is the use of the defence ministry, what is the use of this SOA, what are these laws, some high standards if they are unable to clear up the crime associated with the purchase of MIGs 21. Imagine, even the President of the Republic said that this is not only about corruption but it's about high treason. Not my words, that's what the President of the Republic said. So, once again a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, who is responsible for Croatia's lack of air defence and will this law that you have brought here now change that state? And you knew everything. You knew everything and you knew that you wanted to do business with the Ukrainians before you started, because the same Ukrainian Spec Export in Bosnia radio remont helicopters that came back in poor shape and even fell and there came a document where the representatives of the Aero partners, the same ones who worked with you, shared the representatives of the Bosnian Ministry of Defence cash on their hands, on their hands. From 8 to 25 000 euros were received. The same thing happened in Macedonia that was working with the same company, the same helicopters fell, there are praises to God, some people ended up in jail. The same thing happened to a remont of Angolan helicopters at the same firm in Ukraine where their helicopters were literally stolen. So they handed over the helicopters and never saw them again. Even the Ukrainian State's Attorney's Office did surveillance in the company last year and discovered a whole series of crimes, a whole series of falsified invoices, fake documents, fake documentation, means that scandal of all scandals. Croatia still has not cleared up the matter after this question. Why did we go into business with the Ukrainians in the first place? Is it because everything that's done in Ukraine implies bribery, money under the table? Why Croatia doesn't have its own repair office, it could get through these contracts, perhaps with Israel, etc.? Is it just because the Prime Minister was a lobbyist of Ukraine that he was still at the time he was a exterminator? There's more. Why did the Department of Defense give a remont of 10 transport helicopters, MiG 171, to the Russian Air Force, a 207 million kuna job, then it is known that Russia is under sanctions and another thing, when it is known that Russia is not a member of the NATO alliance. I don't mind. I don't mind, although Russia should be in good relations, but I'm interested in you answering that question, because among other things it's confirmed that the airline's office in Chitia and Russia has no valid remonting certificate at all. They don't have the conditions for that remont to work. What is also very important to emphasise is that King ICT, a company from which Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic came to his post, where he was chairman of the Supervisory Board. By chance, as in the company, the director is Sandri Rebic from the same place as Mr Krsticevic and former head of the defence minister's cabinet, a privileged supplier. Now watch out, when the Minister of Defence goes to Israel, makes a contract with the Israelis, just before that, a few weeks before that King ICT expands its activity, and will continue to deal with the production of warm drinks and food, making websites, but by accident also by remonting and making airplanes. So here's what they're gonna do. They're gonna make coffee, and they're gonna remount the planes, all of a sudden, new pieces, and they're gonna go with each other, like water with fire. What's this about? It is about that Croatia will buy 12 planes for $500 million, but these planes are very old, about 35 years old they will have to be fast-tracked, service, repairs, and there will be another 500 million dollars, that is the opportunity, that there is a privileged company, accidentally linked to the defence minister, to make millions of profits. Could the head of the Department of Defense say why until today this contract with the delivery of F16 planes has not been signed, the contract has been signed, the plane is missing. Why? Do your NATO colleagues maybe block the signature of that contract, because they understand that these planes are no good, and on the other hand that they... about the conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it's about the fact that government representatives aren't really so much about consulting with the United States, but above all, I repeat once again, that there's something about their own accounts that shouldn't have been in the business of airplanes at all, because 16 before you answered the questions about MIG 21. Until that was cleared up, no new planes were allowed... The same airline partner, who was in charge and responsible for the MiG 21 affair, should not have been involved in the business in particular. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about that there are documents, here are documents. The company King ICT is a direct business partner of the airline partner who is accused of corruption and bribery affairs 21 and a direct business partner of the Israeli company, Israel, air space, industry, which sold planes to Croatia. We have a closed circle, I repeat once again, the Israeli company is selling planes to Croatia, the direct business partner of King ICT from which the defence minister and direct business partner is an air partner who is therefore, accused and participated in the award of money in cash, therefore, bribes, and employees of the MORH both in Croatia and in the BIH. These documents, dear gentlemen, were posted on Facebook and were on it for an hour, then removed, without explanation. So now imagine what kind of lobbies these are, when they're able to make this work, to erase this, I don't know, somewhere in New York, Washington, and what I know is where Facebook headquarters is, I didn't get that much information. And here, it clearly says I will show you now, but I repeat once again, the company that sold Croatian planes is the strategic partner of the company King ICT and the air partner. If this isn't a conflict of interest, I don't know what it is. Therefore, these stories that you will now raise some high standards, with this law, first of all you gentlemen sweep into your backyard, these old affairs, answer these questions, as you said you would answer for the Velebit 18 military exercise, and then perhaps we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98346	Let's move on, now it's the Advocacy Bridge Club of Independent Lists and counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98347	Your Honor. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. By abolishing the Article. On the 10th and 14th of the current law, the possibility of survival of a part of the defence industry, which is not profitable in peacetime, is being extinguished, but is extremely important for the security of the state at wartime. In fact, we all know that in peaceful times, part of the military industry doesn't work and it's completely out of work. Part of such industry is of paramount importance to the security of the state because in war conditions, especially if exposure occurs... Or sanctions, which we felt in the Homeland War, in the worst possible way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The neglect of that part of the industry, which has no reason to do business in peace, but because of that it does not maintain a cold drive, because the state will no longer subsidize it. We come to a situation that many manufacturers, irreplaceable military equipment and weapons will simply disarm the plants, for what is currently not profitable to them and thus permanently lose the possibility of war activation in real time and necessary time. Let us take the example of Đura Djakovic's quad as one of... arms and military equipment manufacturers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Army currently has about 75 tanks, M84 in version A4, A5. These tanks produced by Djuro Djakovic have certain components that Djuro Djakovic has no reason to produce at the moment, but in the event of war, such production of some, in the war of more used components, would be necessary for the maintenance and combat use of these tanks. Without support for the maintenance of cold power, we come to a situation where these tanks in the event of a war may become significantly less useful because their maintenance and recovery would result in very questionable use, which means that these tanks would be useless to us in the event of a war. Today, the Croatian military faces the poor management of certain economic entities, i.e. the maternal relationship of the state to those legal entities that produced arms and military equipment, a series of companies that acquired large renaissances, have failed due to the absence of support from those who do not know and we are convinced that the Morhu knows. We will mention only some of the companies that were the base of the Homeland War defence that would later be pushed into bankruptcy, failure and thus a deterioration of defence production and capacity as a result of the poor and incorrect policies of the state-owned company, RH Alan and MORH. These are Novi SUIS, Imotski Imostro, Arma, etc., etc. that have failed. Some of these companies, such as the New SUIS, have produced some of the most advanced unique systems in the world whose production will never be possible again because no one has made sure to invest or preserve the cold drive. The justification for disagreement, EU rules, free market rules and incompetence within the real framework of the state budget are untrue, neither the EU prohibits such rules nor is the problem in the existence of funds and unpredictability, but rather in the mere inadequacy of the competent and non-existence of the will to verify which these are strategic and cold drives, in which they should be regulated. Proposer, the defence ministry wants to amend the article and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 17th law in a way that removes the government's obligation to report to imported and exported weapons in military equipment. Not only is this a step backwards in the transparency and prevention of all present corruption but this is a difficult flagrant example of hiding not only from the public but also in its own way of spending billions of kuna. So here, both procedures and transparency are violated by the amendment of Article 17 of the existing law. The promoter will now, probably you will now defend that public procurement is transparent and similar. But let's remember those examples of remonts, the public procurement of remonts, the flashes that went on a combat flight, which went straight into Ukraine and returned to parts, in the carivol. But let's also remember the recent examples of second-hand, recently used R16 planes, MI17 remonts and mup vests. These purchases that filled the media space due to non-transparentity, irrationality and doubtful conjecture. Now such cases will be given a new dimension, the dimension of the twilight zone because the public will no longer see them in the form in which she should have seen him, even if she had been reported to the government. So this law will be everything... More transparently, it won't be like a respected procedure so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Proposer proposes erasing offset possibilities and seeks to conceal it under the cover of the free market. However, as it is already in us, it is a misreading. The already applicable market rules in nature do not defend anyone's transfers, technology in the Republic of Croatia based on the Offset Treaty but defends it under non-transparent and uneven conditions. Just like it is, for example. Non-transparent in the purchase of an F16 plane to which the procurement of the public does not yet know all the details. And as things stand, they probably won't even know if we don't leak the data from the former companies of our minister Krstic, who, by chance, are planning to cooperate in this business. The amendment of Articles 22 and 23 of the existing law and the way proposed in the draft law is a step backwards, the security of citizens and the security of the state. Article 25 suggests that safety is regulated in such a way that manufacturers are obliged to organise capacity assurances from the access of unauthorized persons by appropriate physical protection during the work process related to the production of remonts and arms and military equipment and in accordance with the provisions of this law and other laws. This is so vaguely defined, defining can lead someone to understand how safety should be taken care of only during working hours and after working hours should not be kept safe, security should not be taken care of. Here in this debate I gave, I made a series of remarks about the importance of weapons and military equipment to the industry that we have in Croatia, which we have ignored and which interesting lobbies were purposely destroyed and which we should have been and mentioned companies proud of this. Examples of aircraft going to a remont in Ukraine have also been reported that have left more correctly than have been returned. The purchases carried out for planes and other weapons, but it is a great shame and the EU does not impose on us, nor does anyone tell us that we cannot keep cold drives for these weapons and equipment such as tanks M84 which would be in war conditions without this industrial branch in those plants, which would be currently in... And in war we would need them because these tanks would be useless in the event of a threat, i.e. War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've given you some remarks on behalf of the Mosto, and I expect you to take these remarks seriously from the Ministry because this is about national security, it's about weapons and equipment, it's about producing very important equipment and weapons, and I hope you'll accept this and give clear explanations about what I've been saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98348	Now it's the SDP's club and respected colleague Igor Dragovan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98349	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We expect that until the second reading a little better work is done about the safety and mode of the remont and all the things that are who, under what conditions will do all these jobs and we expect it to be done until the second reading. Every law, including the one that's actually more or less technically harmonized regulations, becomes political so there's talk of everything so I won't talk about what we lost to military production, especially what we lost to... That's why there are other places to talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a little change, and then we'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98350	Now it's an individual debate. He's the first respected colleague of the esteemed colleague, Strick, and he's gone and he's losing his right to speak. Well, my colleague Branimir Bunjac, he's not here either, he's losing his right to speak, but there's a colleague, Tomislav Žagar, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98351	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will strive in this brief debate to look back on what I consider to be the most important aspect of how I view it as a representative coming from Slavonia, and I think it is important from the viewpoint of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely the first question that we can all ask when we talk about this law that is extremely important, can the defence industry be the bearer of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, can we ask questions like that? If we put the context of lost time, of course not crying over what went on because it is, I agree with my colleague Dragovan, maybe it's pointless now, but if we go back 7 years, maybe then it was an opportunity to buy a plane when the Swedes were offering their planes, maybe then we could save the Oily, today the Oily's going down. This is the article 21 which is discussed here which is deleted and I really don't understand why it is deleted, whether it really is the EU pressure, although the EU has actually banned indirect... programs, and direct... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The programs, they don't mind if it's agreed, we're talking about remonting, maintenance and even manufacturing parts for the acquired military equipment that passes, I think the amount was 2 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the point of view of economic development, this is an extremely important thing and I do not understand why Article 21 is deleted from that point of view. This is especially because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking questions, and often we MPs do not have enough information, except for colleagues and colleagues who are on the board of directors who have more information, and that cross Article 24 of this law from the point of view of security... I don't know, I can't say that, but when we look at Article 24, then it's all a secret, everything can be declared a secret, and we don't have to get the information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where the last purchase of the aircraft is now mentioned, it does not have to be at all controversial if it will allow for certain economic development. Perhaps the minister had clumsy statements when he said it would enable investment, so I mentioned that I came from Slavonia, investment in irrigation surfaces. Look, we're, in my county there's such an investment Israeli technology has offered us this, but the question of how suitable these systems are for Slavonia is whether they're expensive. I speak with the principle that this law has a real impact on the economy. All those economic operators currently producing arms, whether for the Republic of Croatia, are extremely important for exports. And this has been discussed several times in this assembly, the NATO Alliance provides many opportunities for Croatian businesses to keep their goods, not only in terms of weapons, but in general equipment from the IT sector, above all, to place NATO's market, which is regulated by the certificates, as little as I have followed, which are issued by the ministry and in this sense I stand a dissuasive attitude from counterpart Pusic, who spoke on behalf of the club should realise in this part of the conditions, I welcome it, but in such a way that it is indeed a swing of the economy and in this sense I see this law, therefore from the point of view of security, but I see the economy as a key side effect of such a law. And on the other hand, this law is extremely important, in line with regulations or legislation, the EU acquis should be welcomed because there are no other options here and therefore my basic question in this debate is whether the erasure of Article 21 was really necessary since they were so agreed upon by a certain veil of secrecy and does that mean that they will no longer be in the contracts of these provisions that will allow at least this directly... Or actually the development of that industry that follows that technology that's coming to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98352	We have one replica, dear colleague Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98353	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Žagar, you have well said that the issue of this military industry is actually a matter of prosperity or economy, only here in the Croatian Parliament can we hear that the military industry should be placed in the military and not put into the private sector, especially these new industries that are these... that is, with the new one technology that comes that we need to implement it in every way possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we need to be aware of is that this limit of secrecy and preservation has simply been erased today, to the most extent we take the production of these guns or these equipment, there is all the public, all open, therefore this fear of the private sector is simply pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98354	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98355	Thank you. Dear fellow Tudjman, therefore, it is noticeable that a lot of data is more publicized and that let's say that it may be because of a lack of understanding because some things with +in professional are not available to people, so there is a fear that things are not transparent until the end. It's here and when we talk about getting a plane, it's certainly a technology that should have special, specific knowledge that might be valued, but you gave me the opportunity to respond to the replica to say another implication that I forgot to mention, which is so-called. stock reserves. Let's say our silos in Slavonia, they can be filled now as the price of corn is low, they can be filled, the state can do it and then when the price is achieved can be sold. That's how we protect security, and that's how we encourage the economy in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98356	Thank you. Individual debate, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98357	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary. We have before us the Law on Production and Repair of Weapons in which I spoke on behalf of the club and now I would just like to say something about the qualification of arms and military equipment defined in these articles of the law and this qualification procedure applies to the qualification clause of military equipment and is carried out in accordance with... The standard 4177, which was adopted as a Croatian military norm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that the qualification process relating to the identification and qualification of NATO's qualification of weapons and military equipment is implemented in accordance with... norms 3150 and 3151 adopted as Croatian military norms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what clearly says that military equipment manufacturers are obliged to allow access to the process of production of technological documentation and to ensure conditions for the implementation of the quality control process, of course, with the protection of the secret industrial industry, which would not be industrial espionage. The qualification rule relating to the identification and qualification of NATO's qualification system and the implementation of the qualification clause of military equipment is brought by the minister in charge of defence affairs and that is quite fine if it is a weapon used by Croatian police, especially weapons, then should be the police minister. Furthermore, quality control assurance is defined by technical data, resource content, technical documentation, quality requirement, testing methods and verifications of the prescribed characteristics and quality, criteria for determining the quality of the means or systems of arms and military equipment. I can say that by listening to colleagues who looked back on the purchase and remonting of MIG 27, I was in a thematic session held in the Croatian Parliament together with the representatives of the ministry, making it clear that it was criminal activities that were ultimately for some officials or furniture officers in the ministry and proven. But the whole case has not yet reached the end of the process, and I think there are large rabbits in that bush that have not yet been discovered, which have turned huge money into a breach of the safety of the Croatian sky and Croatian defences. I think that all the energy that was invested to remount the MiGs with the Ukrainian firm had failed, that five planes were now grounded and not in operation, that if it were true that the numbers were typed, that the troops from Yemen were purchased, from a larger than we were presented, I was also on the Defence Committee asking and today I would repeat that this case must be disclosed entirely because there is then a defence minister as well as the Prime Minister as all those actors who signed the contracts at those times. Those planes that were supposed to fly to Croatia have returned in trucks which are not form or norm in contract. This also explains that they are assembled here and are also not adequately supplied with everything that has been specified in contractual forms. When we talk about the purchase of new planes and the compromise of the current vice president and defence minister, I can say that what we've seen from all the presentations is talking about, that it's not about any firm that would make contracts, but the government of the Republic of Israel with the Government of the Republic of Israel is making contracts for the purchase of F16 barracks, and I think today's presentation is absolutely not true from the aspect of showing the contract that absolutely does not stand. I think they were targeting wrong, but in this respect, the purchases and remonting of MiGs are still open, I don't know how much Croatian law enforcement, military police, civilian police, as well as investigators are going to find out, and I think it's really clear, that planes don't fly, the service isn't done, the money's been spent, frequent failures on other planes, which have been remounted, are clearly talking about how huge failures have been made. We believe that this law, as well as production, of arms in the Republic of Croatia as well as equipment, will contribute to the debt of economic development and the progress of private companies that have achieved enviable results on the world market, equipped with thousands and millions of guns in 5 versions, US and police and military forces, as well as with Croatian rifles that are clearly sold around the world, and a huge profit has been achieved. Digital uniforms, helmets, rifles, guns are all Croatian products of enviable quality, which have succeeded without these norms, scrape off the world market, achieve enviable results, but here we see that now in Croatian guns of the Croatian Parliament products are installed and chips of refit chips, which under security forces significantly facilitate the business of ratification, infinite collection and transmission of data. Inserting that, putting the chip into the guns is a much more demanding job, with a view to being sensitive, and they must function under the most difficult conditions of exploitation and withstand extreme shocks and temperatures. So qualifications and norms, and such an electronic chip embedded in our guns as well as in the rifles we produce, as well as digital uniforms, clearly speak of normal standards that have been reached in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these 28 companies will, along with the co-operatives they use as well as further innovators and those who have made the most of their steps in Croatia, and most of all because the Homeland War has brought the need for the development of the domestic industry, we believe that in the next period, as announced and written about it, and that Croatia's ammunition in the Republic of Croatia will be produced, in order to strengthen capacity and not depend on either BiH or Serbia with their ammunition. We believe that there are strategic partners, both in the purchase of aircraft and in the development of such an industry, which certainly requires both support and enviable technology that needs to be installed in the Republic of Croatia, so to achieve employment, and then profit from all of that. I welcome this law and these standards that are new and we believe it will contribute to further development of the Croatian military industry in terms of arms and military equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98358	We have a replica of a respected colleague of Shucker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98359	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakić, I was invited on the line by your debate over the remonts and these famous MiGs. There was a dragon in Gorica, there used to be a dragon, today it's... It used to be the strongest repair service for maintaining MiGs and helicopters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They even had their own base in Libya. Since in the war I was a direct negotiator with JNA about it, I know that most of the people remained, only the Russians should have taken the softwarewere honestly saying I never understood why ZTZ had experienced the fate he had experienced. I'm still saying that he has both human and technical potential to be at least on the trail of what he once was, and even in future new aircraft in the air force... RH, because simply, what's most worth it, it's knowledge, it's a man, it's a ZTZ has, and I think it just needs to be rerouted into something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98360	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you have well established that the question of all the questions is why there was no further development of the ZTZ why the protective forces were left without support, without further educated people, as well as the capacities that were there in Velika Gorica, which would serve both the remont and the equipment of our long-term MiGs, should not engage the Ukrainian Institute or the company, as well as have today certain disputes over these MiGs 21 which do not fly in the majority. They do not fly because they are not well remounted, they do not fly because contract forms are not respected, they are not flying, because the irresponsibility of the defence minister at the time, as well as the Prime Minister were so low, that they did not actually want to control or intend to fail to control the achievements but also the development of the ZTZ which was actually almost shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98362	Thank you. Dear colleague Culey, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98363	Dear President, I'm going to talk about the dedicated production in which I worked before the Homeland War, so I can say that I'm one of the few people here who worked on such jobs especially when it comes to one of the most important products of the dedicated industry and it's a thin M84. Đura Djakovic's special vehicles in Slavonski Brod produced a M84 tank. At the time, the former Yugoslavia had 1500 co-operatives who sent all their positions to Djur Đakovic where there was a final installation, an examination of the same tanks and a service called "prophytics". In this company Đura Djakovica special vehicles, a number of engineers, workers trained and trained for the most modern product that had its own market in Kuwait where these tanks were delivered regularly and even during the Homeland War when we needed them most. To talk about Đura Djakovic especially special vehicles that had strategic goals through the completion of the same tank, so it was planned and... with various new innovations which would also find its place in the market and in Croatian defence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we look at it, it's slowly falling into the water, falling into some oblivion, we say it's collapsing. Wars are not only fought by tanks and ships, wars are fought both by infrastructure and energy needed to preserve and produce such funds. When we run out of oil, shipyards, we won't have a foundation for infrastructure, who's going to build platforms, who's going to build pipelines? Who's gonna be the energy service? When Djuro Djakovic is also able to follow the same route as the Uljannik shipyards and others, if he does so, so will what is called Holding Đure Đakovica special vehicles. The wagons will disappear, the tanks produced there for the transport of these same energys will disappear, the gas pipeline will eventually disappear and the services and the last ones who still have knowledge that they have long acquired and who have perfected on never finished... I can't finish one more time without reading what's been done with us and what's not good, which is being investigated for 100 years, I guess, until the last witness dies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the news Hrt.hr Mesic and Jerkovic received a bribe. 16. 02. In 2015, 3 years ago, the Finnish city court unanimously decided, Patrija's managers were giving bribes to Croatian officials, it was bribery and selling armored vehicles to our country in 2007. Executive Vice President of the Party... and representative of Patrija for Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are guilty of bribery by Croatian officials during the conclusion of a 112m-euro contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With Djura Djakovic in 2007, they received a year and 8 months each. The prison is suspended with a fine of nearly 300,000 euros and the doctor sells... He's been cleared of the charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the indictment, Patrija's managers received about 1.6m euros through the mediators Hans Wolfgang Riedl and Walter Wolf who were bribed by then Croatian President Stjepan Mesic and factory director Djuro Djakovic, Bartol Jerkovic. Also described are Walter Wolf's meeting with Mesic and former Prime Minister Franjo Greguric, after whom Patrija's managers were informed that their support was secured. The charges were repeatedly denied by Stjepan Mesic. The verdict is not yet in the power of power. We can create, rebuild, invest, as long as there are those I've read, it's worth nothing to us. We can also have planes and tanks if we don't have those who will rightly and in the interest of this country run them. We can predict, but we don't know how it's gonna end. As long as this kind of procedure is not revealed properly and every day in all the media is called, as long as we care who is with whom, where and how and when, this will stand in a drawer until the last witness dies just like the last witness to my brother's murder in Borov Sel. He died of cancer. So much for investing in the military industry and the need for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98364	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Zdravko Jakop will finally address, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98365	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Here we have listened carefully to the discussion and certain suggestions, the remarks that we will dissipate and, accordingly, install for the text for the second reading, but here let me just briefly refer to certain questions. As for security, it is certainly not reduced by the proposal of this law, however, the intensity in that part was to help those who, among other things, work and the military industry. And that means that during the process, they absolutely have to meet all the criteria. And when we talked about raising quality and security, she, as the esteemed representative said, through codification and the control system which is now an integral part of the bill rises even higher. Also, as regards security and quality control, the adoption of such a bill allows our NATO controllers to work for NATO countries and to be recognised, while we can engage any quality control of NATO representatives in the event of a need. All of this, if not respected, is also defined by criminal provisions for the unauthorized use of capacity or the release of whether to drive or manufacture arms and military equipment or remonts. As for control, Croatian controls and air defenses, make sure that we are able to do it always, today, 24 times seven. And as far as the MIGs are concerned, this process is ongoing and I also hope that it will ultimately produce results. When it was mentioned here Mi-171... And the remont of those aircraft, I just want to say that this remont works at ZTC and Mrs. MP when she mentioned ZTZ was said here and the Dragon, sometimes called it that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the MORH maximum in accordance with the capabilities and capabilities that the ZTC now has, gives support to the ZTC through the possibility of doing the jobs they've been trained to do. Of course, on a daily basis we think, cooperate and support these capacities and abilities to an even higher level. He was mentioned and... As far as I know, the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest has made that decision as it did, and I think we should respect it, and she was saying, if I remember correctly, that this company was not involved in the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the cold drive is concerned, it has not been implemented at all. Whether or not he should be, one way or another, but he was not as such implemented and in accordance with the existing items in the budget he was practically not intended for this. That's one of the reasons he didn't find a place in the new bill. As far as reporting is concerned, the reporting goes according to the second law, the Law on Transport of Arms of Military Equipment, so no reporting to the Government has been avoided, therefore this Law, among other things, is due to the harmonisation of several norms and principles. So here, it will be done under the Law on Transport of Military Use. When we talk about the F-16 deal, that procedure must be transparent. It has been discussed several times, among other things in the committees of this home and in this home, so it is a very complex process which is also ongoing and I hope that according to the planned deadlines and times, and in collaboration... or government-guarantee that we're going to have an increase in the capacity of defense and airspace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about security, it's indivisible and I don't think it would be good to share it related to the time when it comes to manufacturing, refurbishing and military equipment because to produce certain things you have to have certain standards. But if someone does, and when there's no contract after three months or six months, we just wanted to let that company do something else. And then it's common that during that time they don't need to comply with those standards because they might be working on some elements or components for another supplier. So we didn't talk here about reducing security. I'm saying security is indivisible and... whether or not we should give companies the opportunity to work with their capacities throughout the year, not only when there is a specific contract related to the production, transport or remonting of military equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I already said in the opening part that when we talk about codification, that there was, among other things, the intensity of international co-operation, since we are a full NATO member that we can share in this segment these experiences, knowledge and skills, in order to reduce costs among other things. When we talk about the set, it is directly prohibited by some proposals, but it does not prevent industrial co-operation. So even when we talk about the latest negotiations, industrial co-operation is involved. I also said that ZTC is a company that we work with on a daily basis and we try to contribute a little bit more to make it work as best as possible, and that's also worth not only for ZTC, but for Djuro Djakovic who was mentioned here, so here we are, remont tanks we do nowhere else but work in Djuro Djakovic. We do the same thing with combat armored vehicles because they produce it. And someone here mentioned 171Sh, we said we were doing it at the ZTC and normally with whoever passed the contest. And the one who passed the contest was Russia, and they're helicopter manufacturers. So there's nothing out of the ordinary. Here, once again, I thank you on behalf of the promoter for all your comments, suggestions. We will also dismember them, and I believe that this law will contribute even more to the strength of our military industry, as well as to raising the level of quality and security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98366	We have four replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98367	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I simply have to look back at the ZTC or the Dragon or the ZTZ, as it used to be called. For the simple reason, you know best what this center has been through, what conceptual conflicts, etc. And I think that's exactly why he's at the level he's at. And maybe this law is just an opportunity to make that both good and bad experience from the past, that center while there are human potentials. And the other thing, the university in Velika Gorica is the only university that has a direction to maintain aircraft. And that's all our story that was designed when that university opened. Therefore, it is a potential that exists and simply must not be ignored at this time. The same thing when it comes to Patrija, a combat armored vehicle, you have the one that was signed when they bought that combat vehicle and I think that the potential of Đura Djakovic was used badly, but not so much because of the micro, but because of the macro-political events that took place and which simply stopped some processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98368	Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98369	Thank you very much for your findings. I also said, so these repair jobs, we tried to make maximum use of the ZTC capacity. We're sorry that they weren't able to do this job on their own, but here, as far as we have information, it's going well, and that among other things gives them the opportunity for them to get on time and in collaboration with the university to come to a new power, and these are people because without people there is no development and that this tries to stabilize the situation and then develop in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98370	Second replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98371	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. I'll do it again. By abolishing the Article. The 10th to 14th of the current Law is extinguished by the possibility of survival of a part of the defence industry that is not profitable in the peacetime. But it's extremely important for the security of the state at wartime, which means that you will, for example I said that... The M-84 tanks in the event of a war if the war this war is shut down, the war is threatened, if the part of what this one is going to be, the production that's very important for the restoration of tanks because it's not profitable, and you're shutting it down by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simply in the war these tanks will be unusable. So, you've denied yourself here because you're shutting down these articles from 10 to 14, the possibility of remaining part of the defence industry that isn't profitable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98373	Dear Representative, this part of the problem is regulated by the Law on Explosive Substances, and this Act or Proposal to amend and supplement the Law does not make it any more difficult for companies involved in the production, remonting of arms and military equipment. In fact, it gives them the opportunity to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98374	Now it's my dear colleague Ostojić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98375	Dear Secretary of State, I'd rather turn to this part of the production of equipment that should be in stock. You may answer me now that it's not the subject of this Law, etc., but I would like to point out one thing, which is that if we're looking for security, we should in any case encourage the part that we have something in stock that we don't have right now. I used to talk about gas masks, about protective equipment in case of an incident that doesn't have to happen with us, I don't want to scare anyone, but it's true next, which is that such things should be stimulated and encouraged by us in the Republic of Croatia. We've come to a situation that in the event of a major incident etc. We can notice that only then do we react with certain purchases, so stimulating exactly that kind, and now I'm going to say peace equipment, should be in companies and stimulate it. Just a suggestion, I don't think it was a bad idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98376	Thank you. Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98377	Thank you very much for your suggestion. As you saw and could see, we are also trying to raise in that part of the security level and extend it through the reserve system, etc. It concerns between the other and that civilian component. Co-operation with state administrations and with the MUP, I hope we have positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98378	And the last replica. Dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98379	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I'm just saying that for the sake of the public, it's just as we understand it in a simple dictionary. Ofset is actually a legal bribe. Those who have manufacturers who sell goods to those who are poorer economic conditions, and the Republic of Croatia certainly has no money to throw away. And if he sells expensive planes, then he says, buy from us planes, and through the offset we'll offer you the development of your technology, the employment of your resources, that's what I'm talking about directly offset, and indirect offset, say the Swedes said if you take our Grippen planes, your Oiler will have 4 ships worth 100 million euros. These are the things we're talking about, and that's why I don't understand why you're erasing that article. The 21st although so far in the Law has written can be defined in the contract. Maybe he's not because even in the purchase now, the last purchases of the aircraft we don't really know what the details of that contract are because he's secret and whether there's anything in that contract that will have consequences for the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98380	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98381	Well, I hope I've answered that part before. So we're talking about the directives that harmonize this law, but... industrial co-operation, I purposely said an English name for this reason because it has, as such, been respected in, say, the negotiations following a regulation where the offset as such is no longer to be used and cannot be used in the EU, but no one forbids you to cooperate with each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She is welcome between partners and always exists, she needs to be negotiated as best as possible, that industrial co-operation and be sure that she will be the element of the ongoing negotiation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98382	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, first reading, P.Z. No. 444. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Remonting and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment and Others will be adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 86 for, 3 abstentions and 5 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98385	Respected, the final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is proposed to amend the existing provisions of copyright restrictions for the need of disabled persons with the aim of facilitating the adaptation of printed works and other content protected by copyright and related rights in formats adapted to the needs of blind persons, persons with visual impairment or other difficulties that prevent them from being used in the press. This final draft law in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia harmonizes with the relevant European acquis and with the international treaty established in 2013 under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, etc. A Marrakech contract. For the purposes of joining the EU and its members, the EU Treaty of Marrakech adopted in 2017 Directive 2017 1564 on certain permitted uses of certain parts and other articles of protection protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of persons who are blind, who have visual impairment or have other difficulties in the use of printed materials or amending Directive 2011 29 on the harmonisation of a certain aspect of copyright and related rights in an information society which obliges Member States to adopt appropriate regulations to comply with this Directive by 11 June 2018. It is therefore necessary to adopt appropriate amendments and amendments to the copyright law and related rights law. Directive 2017 1564 has also been adopted with respect to the obligations arising from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities under which persons with disabilities are guaranteed the right to access information and education and the right to participate in cultural, economic and social life on the same basis as other persons. The blind person, persons with visual impairment or other difficulties that prevent them from serving the press face the process of education and in everyday life with significant barriers to accessing books and other printed material. Following this, measures are indicated to increase the availability of books and other printed materials in specific formats adapted for the purposes of those users, e.g. Brill's letter, sound books and so on. The books and other printed materials normally contain copyrighted works and other copyright-protected or related rights for which processing and making available to the user should generally be subject to prior consent of the rightholder. The existing legal framework already provides for certain exceptions and restrictions of copyright and related rights in favour of persons with disabilities, and the proposed amendments and additions will establish more detailed and clearer and more comprehensive rules of application of this exception to the category of users concerned which is defined so as to include persons with difficulties that do not represent disability in a narrow sense. By adopting the proposed law, authorised entities under clearly prescribed conditions will be able to adapt and make available to those categories of users such works without the need for a prior entry into force of the authorisation of the holder of copyright and related rights and without the obligation to pay an appropriate fee. In accordance with the final proposal for an amendment and addition of copyright law and related rights, the definitions of the basic concepts relating to the use of the subject matter of protection under this exception shall be governed. Creating supply of use... in the EU market under the rules of exception, the obligation of authorised entities to use this exception, the obligation to comply with the personal data protection rules and the transparency and exchange of information between authorised entities and the state intellectual property office, with the competent national authority and between the institution and the European Commission in order to allow for the exchange of more accessible formats for the needs of users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The categories of users to which exceptions to the relevant subject matter will apply are: persons who are blind, persons who have visual impairment which cannot be corrected so that the visible function is essentially the same as those who have no such damage, persons who have perceptive problems or difficulties in reading, including dyslexia or any other learning difficulties, which are essentially not able to read printed works in the same way as persons who do not have such interference or difficulties, persons who are unable to hold a book or handle it or focus or move their eyes to the extent that they would generally allow reading, to the extent to which these damages or difficulties or difficulties or difficulties or persons are essentially not able to read printed parts, to the same extent as persons who do not have such damage or difficulties or difficulties. By adopting the proposed law and the relevant national rules in other EU Member States in accordance with the Directive... The cross-border exchange of copies of a part or other subject-matter in an accessible format will be authorised and their availability on the whole internal market will be ensured, reducing the need for multiple production of such copies and leading to savings, i.e. increasing the effectiveness of activities, lips and facilitating the position of that category of chronicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the content... a proposal for a law which facilitates the conditions for the activity of non-profit-based entities to provide education, training or access to information to blind persons and persons with visual impairment or other difficulties that prevent them from being used in the press. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The implementation of this law will not result in additional costs for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament considered and accepted the proposal for this law at a session in June, and the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Copyright and Related Rights differs from the draft law which accepts the Croatian Parliament, only in that the statement of certain provisions has been no-technically completed, in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, since the debate does not highlight the application of the content of the provisions of the bill. Following all of this, the Croatian Parliament is invited to support... and final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98386	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, exactly 15th of this month, we marked the day of the white stick. I was present on the round table, which was organised by the Croatian Association of the Blind, where we were just talking about these problems, about the problems of the education of the blind and of all others who are undersighted and who have some difficulties, but the emphasis was precisely on the blind. Their problem is that in the process of education and in everyday life, they face obstacles in accessing books and other printed materials, and this problem is recognised as a prominent problem at international level. Therefore, in 2013, the so-called ‘Treasury’ was adopted. a Marathetic contract that regulates facilitating access to works carried out by blind persons, those with visual impairment or other difficulties in the use of printed materials. In 2007, Croatia adopted, signed, and then soon thereafter ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So, all these documents, which have been made up of compensation, and the EU are the consequences of a convention that regulates only every segment of life for people with disabilities, including participation in cultural life, education and all other segments of life. Therefore, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have adopted Directive 2017/154 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on the permitted uses of certain parts and other subject of protection that are protected by copyright and related rights, and for the benefit of persons with disabilities, so to the blind, those with visual impairment or other difficulties. I would like to stress that these other difficulties include those who cannot hold a book, which can also be a person with cellular damage, can also be a person with muscle dystrophy and other damages. It is important that these amendments and additions of laws apply to all persons with disabilities. The proposed law regulates the definitions of basic concepts relating to the use of the subject of protection and, in the context of the exception, the production and use of parts on the EU internal market, according to the rules of the exception, the obligations of authorised entities related to the use of this exception, the obligation to comply with the rules on the protection of personal data, the transparency and exchange of information between authorised entities and the State Intellectual Property Office as competent, national authorities and between the Institute and the European Commission and in order to enable contacts between authorised entities and authorised users of exceptions and cross-border exchange of accessible formats for the needs of users. The adoption of this law will facilitate the adaptation of printed works and other content protected by copyright and related rights to formats adapted to the needs of all these users that I mentioned earlier because they cannot be used in print because of their difficulties. Therefore, it will facilitate their participation in education, further, to facilitate their participation in cultural life. Furthermore, the adoption of this law will fully adapt to EU rules and, as I have said, what is extremely important, all regulations are adapted to the main, single document, which is the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Also last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a National Strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities and the amendments to this law are being fulfilled and one part of that strategy is participating in cultural life. What, of course, by supporting these amendments and additions, but what I have to say here, and I hope that after the adoption of this law we will also talk about what is currently an extremely important problem, so the education of the blind. We already have good indications in our contacts with the minister, but I must say that three days ago, the blind have made it particularly clear, and these are books for the blind that they do not have, and therefore cannot be adequately educated. I also appeal to you from this place that we will soon hold a meeting in which we will define how and in what way and what it will be books and which calls for, of course, the proposal of the Croatian Union of the Blind, which is the most important in that these books adapt to blind people and to all those who have a problem with reading or in any other way, therefore damage to vision or any other problem to adapt to books, that education that is extremely important, education that is particularly apostrophe and convention and all of these documents that we have mentioned here that education is accessible to all persons and so to the blind people who are not seeing. And then when we do that, we do everything we can to make this society more equal, to make people with disabilities equal opportunities, that's what we're trying to do, and I believe that we'll soon do books for the education of people with disabilities accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98388	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, let's welcome the members of the Cultural Art Society of the Happy Shocks of the Goodies who are here with us, here in all... And those who guard our traditions, here's the shocking ruins on them, therefore, and thus preserve the tradition. [[Applause.]] We will now cross over to another Club of Representatives and this is the SDP on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I join our guests in saying goodbye, goodbye, come back to us again. As well as in the first reading, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. It is clear that this is about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and that, in fact, in relation to the first reading, the law has experienced not so many important changes but nomtechnical harmonisation, above all, the recommendations and remarks of the Law Office. As we have already heard in the opening presentation of the Ministry's representatives, I apologize, I have not welcomed the representatives of the Ministry and the Institute of Intellectual Property because the guests have a little confused me at the gallery, greetings, welcome us, this law will actually enable and facilitate access to printed materials, printed parts and other contents that are protected by copyright, persons who are blind, persons who have visual impairment or other difficulties that are not capable of using printed materials. In translation, this means that actually authorised entities will be able to adapt and to make accessible works of these categories without prior entry into force of copyright holders and related rights and that is something that is good and that is certain to remove one of the obstacles that have existed in this system so far in terms of the desire to facilitate everyday life, so, if you want, education for people who are blind, persons who have difficulty seeing. However, this may be an opportunity to really point out some other problems faced by blind and impaired persons, I would especially like to point out, when we are talking about this part of the removal of this obstacle, means making more available literature especially in the educational system of these categories of people who do not have a problem with their own guilt, where we have to do everything to enable them to have a normal life as well as people who do not face this problem, which is a group of deaf and blind, or deaf-blind children. I would just like to take advantage of this pay phone and appeal to the Ministry of Science and Education to finally adopt a rule on teaching assistants and assistants in the follow-up to children with developmental difficulties because we know that, in fact, without this regulation and without one systematic arrangement, it will not come to your deaf, deaf and stupid children who simply have a problem with access to information and quality educational process because they do not have an adequate one, I will now dare say, colleagues Lukačić, do not mind me, I know that there is a lot of dispute about professional terminology, but they do not have a translator who would allow them access to information, meaning the experience of the educational process and everything they need because the language they use, the language they understand, is not a standard language that is adapted to teaching in Croatian schools. Likewise, I must express my regret that the Ministry of Science and Education has given up full curricula reform in the form of how it is imagined. Why? Because the complete curricula reform, as it was imagined, contained four key segments. It's a reform of educational content, so what you learn, reducing if you want materials, and making it easier for children to access materials. Secondly, improving teaching processes in the way something is taught and in the way that this has helped, which are new ways that we can enable children more interesting, more modern and easier to adopt certain not only materials but to acquire competences, skills and all that they will need to live in, which, of course, includes multimedia content, modernisation and this process that we have in one part imagined through and e-schools. And the third not less important segment was evaluation, monitoring and evaluation. So a brand-new concept of communication between teachers, teachers and children, feedback and the unforgiving work, which is their parents. However, a complete curricula reform with the same attention as never before has put an apostrophe on a special approach to every child at the heart of the teaching process, why? Because our education system is adapted to the average. Unfortunately, at this point, there is no feeling for a child who, in any form, bounces from that average regardless of whether it is a child who is gifted, who needs special attention, a special incentive and wants more than what is an educational standard, but on the other hand we come to what we are talking about today and about children who have certain special needs. There, in particular, the full curricula reform highlighted that part of each individual's specific approach, the training of teachers, teachers, educational content, methods of teaching each child who has difficulty in developing for whom it is not, and I am sorry that the ministry has mutilated this entire curricula reform on this road, taking certain parts that suit him, some parts that have completely ignored, among other things, this monitoring, evaluation and evaluation reform, among other things, this approach, a special approach to gifted students. There are curriculas that are made for subjects and vocational schools, for special types of education intended for gifted students and special needs, it's gone somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98390	Comrade Voter, I'm sorry that you, no, no, it's not time, just on the subject you went.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98391	I didn't leave, we're talking about blind people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98392	.../Intruder Reiner: We are talking about copyright and related rights./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98393	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98394	.../Intruder Reiner: And you about curricula all the time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98395	Well, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98396	So I'd just like to ask you to stick to the subject. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98397	We can in this way enable access to blind people, textbooks and literature in a simpler way that we will not ask for approval, as you would say, we will not subject to copyright. But we still have in our schools Mr. Reiner, the problem that our curricula, from which certain textbooks will come, are not again, they are neglected which are made for children with disabilities, among other things and facilitating access for children blind. ... those schools, you can't tell me now that this has nothing to do with the subject because it has something to do with the subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why does it have to do with the subject? So because this information and communication technology actually can and is one of the most important channels that can help improve the quality and efficiency of the educational process and cannot talk about solving the problem of the blind in a way that allows them better access and education and everyday life, we cannot talk without this part of applying multimedia solutions that will facilitate their use of literature in electronic form. But if you have educational authorities that don't understand it, that order computers for experimental implementation without cameras, if you have educational authorities that leave out children on the way with difficulties and gifted children in terms of curricular reform, full curricula reforms, then we are solving only one small process, one small drop in a cup of trouble, and sometimes that drop sheds a glass but is not a problem in a drop, the problem is in a glass. And we may be able to prevent this bill from spilling a glass, and what I wanted to talk about here is actually a glass full of problems facing children and adults who are blind and weak-sighted. And unfortunately, the most vulnerable group in this category is children. And what enables them to normally integrate into society at a time when they are of age, at that most vulnerable age is the education system. And the picture of the education system and how they will feel in their schools, whether they will feel comfortable, uncomfortable, want to feel that the state cares for them or not is the experience they will carry their whole life into life. And that is why it is important that from kindergartens, that we as a state show that we are ready to do everything and to make up for everything they do for some reason and to respect their special need for a special approach and to give them, as responsible, educational authorities, how responsible legislative authority, all tools that will facilitate their access to education and later and normal life. That's what I was saying. And to do that, we need to stop seeing educational changes as some kind of PR process in which we're going to have one press, and I don't know, say, let's say now, we're going to pass a new Law on textbooks, there's going to be porridge bags, and you're going to pay less because we're throwing out workbooks. I ask you, what will we do through this new Law on textbooks to enable better access to blind people and people with special needs? I'll answer you, if you've read the law, you'll see nothing, that's what I'm talking about. We can't talk about reforming the education system when we have rules on assistants and assistants in the classroom, and especially what I said, where translators need children who are deaf, deaf and blind, the rule is how many ministers are here now, two years old, in a drawer. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Rainer, that's the theme of today's point, though a little bit dilated, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98398	.../Intruder Reiner: It's a very extended topic, I now when you're apostropheping me, don't./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98399	I don't know why you're nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98400	.../Intruder Reiner: I am not nervous but you 80% of your speech is dedicated to the curricula.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98401	About the problem of blind people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98402	.../Intruder Reiner: No, but curriculative reform and other things including textbooks on which there will be special laws./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98403	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98404	.../Intruder Reiner: So, not copyright and related rights./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98405	That's what we said we support and that's one of the solutions that will make life easier for blind people. And as Mrs Lukacic, on behalf of the HDZ Club, warned me of some of the important problems that were raised on the round table, which was held on the day of the white stick herself, and she actually inspired me to expand my subject and to look at the problem of the blind in one broader context, although my intensity was actually to come for this payphone and say 5 sentences, which is that the SDP club supports this law, that it would facilitate access to literature and textbooks of this category of blind people and persons who have difficulty in seeing but since Mrs Lukacic inspired me, here I also talked about some other problems that the blind people face, about what the government has done so far, and makes this law to ease their problems, but also about what our government has remained deaf and painful and blind. So let us help the government to see, help her through this law and through this debate, and I hope that I have contributed to the fact that the government is no longer blind to the problems of the blind people they face in Croatia and especially our children in our schools. Now, blind Vlado, I ask you to respect the blind, to look at and do your job, to take the rules out of the drawers and to bring the laws that will actually contribute to the better quality of life of the blind people to whom we depend largely, among other things, and here on us Assembly representatives, although I see that some HDZ advocates are turning their eyes on this topic, and until yesterday they were leading, so they were in the prime minister's office, leading communications with the public, so much worse messages when I see MPs spinning their eyes when we talk about the problems of the blind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98406	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is Honorable Representative Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98407	Thank you, Vice President. The Rules of Procedure were injured first in Article 232 that you were well aware that the speaker had deviated from the subject of the agenda, and in the end, this is why I also appeared in Article 238 where the representatives were personally offended, so keep your personal observations to yourself. I haven't reported that you've quoted all the complete curricula reforms, all of this, and about the reduction of the material, which is done in the experimental phase and facilitating the learning process, and all of this is done in the experimental program, the whole thing goes on for a year, you'll have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98408	Thank you. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, she lifted a plate of respected representatives of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238. I would ask my colleague, Glasovac, to stick to the topic above all, to leave personal frustrations for other opportunities, and personal possible failures and frustrations which are no longer in the ministry, and there is no opportunity to participate in something, and she had to keep it for another place, and not for the Croatian Parliament, so please refrain from personal qualifications because it speaks more of you than what you say about this speaker and call someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98410	Thank you very much. I warned my colleague Voter twice about sticking to the topic because she didn't stick to the topic and somewhere, like I said 80 percent of her speech was dedicated to another, not the subject. And I ask that all MPs really stick to the subject. We're going to have laws, we're going to have these laws, and the book law is going to be and it's going to be very soon, we're going to have a whole series of laws about reforming education, so there's going to be opportunities to say that when it's going to be a topic. And if that's not the subject, then it really doesn't make sense to talk about it, but good. We're going to stick to the subject of an individual debate and she's been contacted by a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my respect for the Secretary of State and the Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to try for a short while, as long as it allows me to give just a brief review and a sort of summary of what we've been discussing in the name of the clubs. The fact that, as already stated on several occasions, given that we have a law here in the final version, therefore, that after the first reading, there was not one single remark, whereas the difference compared to the first version of the view only in some nomotechnical improvements tells everyone that this law is of a quality and will, of course, achieve the essence of it, and the essence of this law is, in fact, facilitating access and adaptation of printed works and other content protected by copyright or related rights in those formats that are adapted to needs, in particular, the blind persons, then the needs of persons with visual impairment, and then persons with other difficulties, for example persons with perceptive disorders, reading difficulties, including dyslexia or persons who, due to physical impairment or some kind of motor interference, are not able to keep a book or in a position to keep it in order to be able to manage this manner of reference, and thus, in order to allow for all users to be able to manage it in order to understand, in order to address, in order to be able to be able to be able to be able to understand and to manage, in order to address, in order to address, in order to address. And, of course, since, as more pointed out, it is not at all questionable that blind persons and persons with visual impairment and persons with other difficulties which, for the consequence of their difficulties, have difficulties in using printed material should be assured, above all, of the use of works in accessible formats, and then of those formats that are adapted to their needs, therefore there is no question at all that all of this should not be done and that it is not necessary to adapt and facilitate access and texts written on Braille's letter, texts written with an increased font of letters, adapted to books, sound books and all other written materials that are adapted to all categories of persons I have spoken about. And of course, on the basis of the stated need to take exactly all the measures in order to increase the availability of all these materials, it is also necessary to bring all of this into place in one appropriate legislative proposal and, of course, by providing for and improving the conditions for persons with disabilities, first and foremost, access to information because we live in an age and in a new world of the 21st century, and then they need it and it is unquestionably necessary, to ensure the accessibility and availability of education at all levels, and then, of course, beyond that, inclusion in cultural, public and any other form, the social life form in the community in which they live, which will contribute to a significant extent to the social inclusion of the persons of all these categories that I have listed inclusion in society. If we know that books, as well as other printed materials normally contain works that are protected by copyright or other related rights for which it is processed or made available to users, we generally need to have the consent of the rightholder, of course, by this very legal proposal, I believe in a quality way, bearing in mind that the existing legal framework already has in it certain exceptions and restrictions of copyright and related rights in favour of persons with disabilities, this law makes even clearer the establishment of even clearer rules within this exception or restrictions on copyright in favour of blind persons or persons with visual impairment. And of course this legal proposal will make two things possible for me, above all, better available books and printed materials for all of these categories of people with difficulties I've been talking about, that's one side. On the other hand, it will again enable the appropriate respect for the rights of the author and holder of related rights by establishing clear rules for the use of these materials and, in that sense, it is, of course, also mentioned in the debate of the applicant, that this law is, in that sense, in compliance with the European acquis, i.e., with the 2017 EU Directive, which, in turn, allows for the implementation of the Marrakech Treaty on facilitating access to the works carried out by all these categories of persons I have talked about. Of course, this problem has been recognised at international level right through the Marrakech Treaty, which was adopted in 2013 and came into force in 2016 and through this legislative proposal Croatia is joining all countries, which in a relevant and adequate way meet the needs of its citizens with this form of difficulty. Of course, I support the Alliance's initiative for the Blind and Personal Persuasion of my colleague Lukačić in relation to the education of blind persons, especially the problem, adaptations and books, but then textbooks for the blind and students with visual difficulties, as of course the most vulnerable group of the total population. I support, of course, the initiative to adapt textbooks, so on this category of persons, and I also agree with the conclusion that it is necessary not to forget but to work out in the proper way the rules on assistants in the teaching, which play a very important role, therefore, as well as assistants and assistants to students with difficulties, so I join the same way, here is an appeal to the Ministry of Education and Science to work on that rule anyway. And I believe that it is important and, yes, I believe that probably, the entire assembly, all the political options, will unanimously support this bill and, of course, I am sorry that some parts of the assembly and some colleagues, or colleagues, I would say colleagues, so in their discussions, they call this government funeral names. They call it, if I remember correctly, a blind government, I don't think it's a good comparison and it's an insult to blind people and people with visual impairment. But if that's how they solve their own frustrations, which, during their time at their disposal, has failed to do a few things, and then at their will, if that's easier, here, let them behave, and that kind of behavior speaks more of them than of us. And it's worth remembering, that everything we do, we do to ourselves first, and then to others, eventually, it comes to a charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98412	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98413	Thank you very much. Comrade Bedekovic, you have made it clear what this law is about. I think it's very important to note that this law is passed by the government, but without any pressure from any category of people with disabilities, the blind people welcome this, they know that it will benefit them and what's more important, it's just like that rule on teaching assistants, which a colleague has mentioned for two years is not true. This is the only government that finally got to work on that rulebook, because some others haven't done it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98414	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98415	My colleague Lukacic, I am pleased that you mentioned this, that you mentioned the fact that this law is passed by the government, without external pressure at last, without any external pressure, so let's call it an association, which represents this category of our citizens, which is another proof of the quality of the work of this government and sensitivity, so this government for the problems of all categories of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98416	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98417	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I think you have had a very high-quality exhibition, in which you have even made an additional proposal, even a colleague, Glasovac mentioned it. However, you certainly made a good remark, where there is indeed something noble, which we do well, so I guess it's hard for some people to get over their mouths that they'll just support it, so maybe give that... The proposal but because of its political agenda, they have to link it to any other thing and say it's not right anyway, that the Ministry of Education is not doing anything, that it's not good, so some reform, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we have a really noble law that you say yourself, came by a colleague of Lukacic without any special pressure and that... It would also really help to discuss both the quality and the future laws themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's sad that we have to, because something came from the CNS, let's go with all the shakes and stones, even if it's good, but we can't say it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98418	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98419	Here, I can only comment briefly, that I am trying to understand the position of the opposition. If that's the position that's on the other side, then we have to and we can try to understand their dictionary and their way of doing it. If it's that easy, we did a good deed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98420	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98421	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Bedekovic. A lot of this has been brought out through your debate now, and even in replicas, two things I'd like to stress that are important to me. I believe that you will agree with me that, in fact, in the education system and you are an educational worker, in fact, a lot of rests and even the application of this law should actually rest on the very basis. And every extension and debate on this topic is actually welcome to me, so even my colleague, the Voter, didn't make much of a mistake. On the other hand, I would like to say that people with disabilities are otherwise so burdened with their daily survival in all systems that they may not even be able to respond to some laws because even those fundamental provisions on the convention regarding inclusion in everyday life are not met. And I'd like to mention more, forgive me for this. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] People with intellectual difficulties, and we forgot to say we have the right to an easy to understand language and we often forget it even in the context of ourselves I'm sorry, but here's what I had to do. [[Intruder Reiner: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98422	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98423	My colleagues, I'm always up for the expansion of the debate, always. If, through a debate on any problem, and in particular on problems of the educational system, we put forward an issue that is relevant and relevant to the system. And I'm always up for every extension of the debate, but then when we take her in a normal tone, in a tone whose base is the waist, when we lead her, we argue, and when we lead her with respect to each other. I see this place and this crew as a team that should be working on improving the system and improving the lives of its citizens. As long as we don't work teamwork and the education system is especially a system that requires national consensus. Until we can achieve that, we'll do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98424	And the last replica of the respected representative Sabine Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98425	My colleagues Bedeković to HNS and Vrdoljak is an educational system as important as they are interested in public procurement and computer procurement, there will be speeches here by the end of the term and you know it very well. The chaos they have made at the Ministry of Education will be corrected by ministers after them and you know it very well. If I point out here a problem that has given up a special approach to curriculative reform for children with difficulties in whose category blind people are involved. If I point out the problem that the rulebook for assistants in the child with disabilities class has been in the drawer for a year and you know it every month they write to the ministry and nothing seems to happen, then it's my fault. Also, adjusting textbooks to blind people is not in the plan of a new proposal for a textbook law, and you know it. I just said here not to be hypocrites, this is one of the solutions to some problems and the problems are much bigger and the government sees what the problems are and I didn't want to offend when I say that a blind end of healthy eyes is being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98426	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98427	I've already told you colleagues, I'm trying to understand you, I understand. You know that I often agree with you and understand your position and understand your frustration. You had your mandate, you were an assistant minister, you had the whole term at your disposal, you could have done anything and you left that position alone, if I remember your own request well before the term of office. I'm sorry. ... You had all the time you didn't use and you didn't do what you're talking about right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98428	Please, not from the bench. ... Comrade Voter, control yourselves...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't have to, you don't have to, and you can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, you're getting a warning now. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We will now conclude the debate and vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98429	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 352. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 91 for, 4 abstentions and a law on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98430	We will now move on to the following draft legislation, which is: - Final proposals of the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 447; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration Katica Prpic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98431	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament is authorised by the Government to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution. The basic material and time limits of the legislative delegation are laid down in Article 88. The Constitution a refers to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Delegated power in the adoption of legislative practice added materially limited to the issue of current economic policy and the time period during which the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet. By referring exceptionally to the period from the date of discharge or the end of the term of office until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. Since the power delegated by the applicable law ceases within a constitutional period of one year from its entry into force and on 10 December of the 18th year, it is proposed to further authorise the Government to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section by respecting applicable constitutional restrictions and current legislative practice. However, it is proposed that, on the basis of the legal authority applicable to the date of entry into force of this Act, the Regulation remain in force and for the longest time until 30 November 2019. In addition, this Act is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure for the reason that, in the event of the non-compliance of this Act of 10 December 2018, a legal situation would arise in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not have the power to adopt regulations to settle certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98432	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98433	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, I have to take this opportunity to point out how this institute regulation is used sometimes, and sometimes when it can really help no. Of course, it is the problem of the medical-laboratory diagnostics magistrates where I have appealed countless times to both the prime minister and Minister Kujundzic that if not, then by regulation in the period when the assembly has not met, the problem of the medical-laboratory diagnostics and regulation ensure that they can achieve their right to work in the Republic, not that they go across Europe where they can be employed at any moment. This is especially true for Slavonia because a study of medical-laboratory diagnostics is in Osijek and a large number of young people who finish the study have already found a job in Ireland, and in Croatia they do not have the right to work. This is exactly the kind of regulation you could handle until the Parliament was in session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98434	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98435	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. The question concerns your proposed article. 4. under which the regulation was adopted by the Government at the end of 2017 and which we are now extending them to remain in force, you predict that they will remain in force and almost until the end of next year, until 30 November 2019. According to usual practice, I looked at similar laws in earlier years, it was not a practice to extend, to keep these regulations in force and almost another year after they were already passed a year ago. Some regulations will be in force practically for almost two years without actually passing the legislative procedure and that the Assembly could not show itself about some very important issues governing those Regulations. So, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98436	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98437	... So, in our jurisdiction, the Ministry of Administration has adopted a Regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Landowners in local regional self-government. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Among other things, it's those six regulations we're talking about. I can only take a position to ask the Parliament to allow us this extension, votes for reasons because by 2019, we will include this regulation in the new Proposal for a Law to discuss a united law on civil servants and tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98438	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and the Honorable Madam Secretary of State. This is about government regulations. We are witnessing that not only this government but also the previous governments have taken over, they have taken over the most important functions of the Parliament, so that this Parliament, which should be the highest authority, is the highest institution in the political system of the Republic of Croatia, that it has become a servant to this institution that is across this building in St. Mark's Square. This is where Parliament's powers on economic issues are also required. So please, when you proposed some topic here for discussion, now there is a big problem in Croatia's shipbuilding. No one's discussing it. If you are already looking for some powers for regulations, then act that way because I say the government has already taken over the Croatian Parliament's powers for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98440	Thank you very much. Now we're going to cross over. First, will the Committee’s rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of the Honorable Representative of Robert Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. It is about the proposal of the Law or the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament. As a rule, when this Bill proposal appears at a similar time every year in front of the Croatian Assembly, it is mentioned to the working bodies and plenary that it is a routine small law authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt regulations for a period of one year that regulates certain issues of the current economic policy, which cannot therefore be governed by those important areas of organic laws, structure, part-rounding of state bodies, local self-government, fundamental human rights and electoral system, and it cannot even edit matters of the state budget and taxes. Of course, however, there remains a large and wide range of issues that the government can regulate in the domain of current economic policy. The fact is that the Parliament has, in a certain sense, limited the government to adopt those regulations only at the time when the Parliament does not meet between 15 December and 15 January and between 15 July and 15 September. Looking at the final proposal, the government did not adopt a large number of regulations that regulated certain issues of the current economic policy, according to the 6 regulations the government passed, mostly in late December of last year, one regulation in March this year. But what we are concerned about and what I was talking about at today's session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and also here at the plenary session, which is why we will be restrained when we decide on this final draft of the law is the fact that almost a year since the adoption of most of the regulations adopted in December 2017, the Government has not regulated these issues by proposing a new law or amendments to the law on issues regulated by those regulations and we are now in a position to extend the importance, so that these regulations adopted by the Government remain in force until 30 November of the following year. This means that the regulations adopted in December 2017 did not, in the meantime, have not been proposed by the law, and the Croatian Parliament has not adopted a law which would have regulated certain provisions in those regulations by the new legal text, and the regulations will therefore remain in force, practically looking at today for more than a year. In all, therefore, almost 2 years throughout 2018 and almost until the end of 2019. Of course, certain regulations or laws adopted have regulated certain issues, however, there are certain areas which are not. For example, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, which the Government adopted in December 2017, and we had at last session of the Croatian Parliament, a report on all the regulations that the Government adopted in December or March. The government's report, which the government must submit to the Croatian Parliament, also said that the regulation would practically still be in force for a certain time because it is in the process of adopting the Capital Market Act. The Parliament was then informed that e-consultation had already been carried out, that the public debate had been concluded and that the government had predicted that the law would be in 2 readings in the Croatian Parliament during the first quarter of 2018. However, in October 2018, the proposed law was not sent to the Croatian Parliament, although the consultation on the bill was carried out, so the assumptions were fulfilled that the Government would determine the draft law and refer it to the Croatian Parliament. Instead, the Government has actually announced its report to the Croatian Parliament, instead the Regulation amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act foresees that it remains in force practically for the next year. We think in MOST's club that this is not acceptable given everything I said, so there is clearly a bill, that there has been a consultation with the interested public, that the government itself in its hodogram has predicted that this bill will be at the debate in the Croatian Parliament in the first quarter of 2018, even said in the first quarter of 2018, and until today it is not in the procedure, and obviously it will not be, the question remains why the government wants to keep the regulation still in place, almost for the next year, and it does not want us to decide here in the legislative procedure because it is our jurisdiction. That's why we don't see an excuse at the club. It could also talk about some other regulations that will remain in force, one of these and the Regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Landowners in local, regional (regional) self-government, you have given a particular explanation, it is about persons who are employed in EU projects in local self-government, people who are not employed as servants for an indefinite period of time but for a certain time for the duration of the project. However, you also wrote in the government report that some of these EU projects will last up to 72 months, so 6 years. This means that we must regulate this issue by law because it is obvious that people working on these projects will be practically up to 6 years. The same way, given that the report on this regulation would seem to me, in March of this year, where the government has stated that several thousand new employees are also expected to be on these EU funds funded by EU funds, it would be very important for us to hear, whether and how many people are really employed on these projects, in which units of local self-government, which is therefore, the effect and the provisions in the regulation that the government has made here. Because the regulation report we had the opportunity to hear in March or, it seems to me, in March of this year under this final proposal of the law, this regulation could remain in force until 30.11. the following year, which means that as representatives we will not be informed about the effects, the financial effects, the number of persons employed on EU projects in local self-government units. If we were to get a proposal to amend the law that regulates this problem, which is within the competence of the Croatian Parliament, we would see through the explanation what the effects of this legislative provision are so far, during this year on EU projects in units of local and regional, regional, self-government. So at this point I'm not talking about whether this provision should be in force or not. It obviously has an important impact on the employment of persons who will work on these EU projects although they will, of course, have a different working legal status than other officials and subsistence in local self-government. But the fact is that after the regulation is passed, we don't really know the real impact of these projects on how many there are in which units of local self-government, in which amount and how many people are actually employed. Because we miss it, which we as a legislative body, we won't be able to decide, practically until the end of the line. Mr. because if the regulation ceases to apply on 30 November 2019, that means that we'd probably end up somewhere then. In order to implement the legislative procedure, perhaps even by an emergency procedure, if those amendments were passed before 30.11.2019, because if the regulation had ceased to apply, and we would not have a new law, in which case, of course, employees working on these EU projects would no longer have legal basis for their working relationship. And these are the reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will be restrained before deciding on this final bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98442	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98443	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear rapporteurs on behalf of the ministry, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the rapporteur and colleague Podolnjak have already said, the bill is actually passed every year at the same time and is in some way considered a technical proposal. I will only briefly therefore, look back on what is most significant, and that is above all, that the basis for the adoption of this law is constitutional provision, Art. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Constitution, which actually foresees that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, by virtue of the power conferred on the Constitution to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, which do not relate to finance, i.e. the state budget and tax policy, and also to those relating to human rights, electoral system, structure and part-round state institutions and units of local regional self-government. And what is also very important is that these powers can only be used by the government in a limited way, i.e. only at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not sit. The proposal for the adoption of this emergency law is also justified on the grounds that the regulation ceases to apply on 10 December of this year, which ceases to be the law, on the basis of which the government may adopt in these past year such a regulation. And given that there will also be a break at the end of December in which the Croatian Parliament does not meet, it would be practical not to pass a new law by then, to have an air-empty space, or there would be no government possibility that if there were such a situation, that something should be regulated, for which it has authority and we do not pass this law, it would not be able to do so. I would also like to take a brief look at what MP Podolnjak said, and he spoke specifically about the regulations that are here and listed in Art. 4. whose proposal for this law actually extends the period of application and in some ways I agree that this has not been a practice so often, however, it is not groundless and it is possible. He spoke about the regulation, amending and supplementing the capital market law, stating that the extension of its validity was questionable, for another year, for the reason that only the debate was conducted so far, i.e. public consultation. I must remind myself, in fact, he forgot that the first reading was conducted in this Croatian Assembly, we accepted the proposal in the reading process on April 27th of this year. So it is not true that nothing has yet reached the Croatian Parliament and it is likely that the law which addresses the issue which has been resolved by the regulation will be passed long before the deadline on which we are now extending. So in Article 4, we say that this is maximum until November 30th next year, which does not mean that all these regulations that are now in force will be in force at the time of adoption of this law, which we have said that we are extending the period of validity until 30 November next year until then. In the meantime, most of this will actually be resolved by laws and there will be no need for the regulations to remain in force. As regards also the regulation on, the regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Landowners in the local and regional, or regional self-government, which is now in force, which is also referred to by colleague Podolnjak, and also by the rapporteur herself, in the same way, stating that in the preparation of the bill that will solve the regulation itself, I must say that it would be in some way illogical that we have now only had an amendment that would classify, an amendment to the law which would include a question which would be addressed by the regulation, and immediately behind that we have again passed a new law that solves the overall problem that needs to be addressed. So the regulation that addresses this issue of people's working opportunities for a certain period of time of more than 6+6 which is regulated by the Law on Employees and Landowners and in the part where they are employed from projects obtained from EU funds, I think it is one issue which is well regulated by this regulation and is very important for our units of local and regional self-government and I am sure that this issue will also be resolved by the regulation of the law and long before the deadline for which this proposal is due. Citing all of this and considering that this possibility that we give to the Government is necessary that, at a time when the Croatian Assembly does not actually be able to adopt those regulations that are relevant for the functioning of certain issues and certain areas without entering what is limited, the HDZ Club will support this proposal and we believe that it is legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98444	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98445	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The law in the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the regulations regulate certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament is indeed a law that is traditionally passed at this time in the Croatian Parliament and under these conditions we would be willing to support it as a position because we proposed such a law while we were Government. What makes this law different from the laws that used to be the case is that the regulations adopted by the Government under the previous power law apply by 30 November 2019 no longer until 30 June 2019, as was the case in the last few laws that I have been able to look at in the National Journal where these laws have been published. Therefore, as a club, we have submitted an amendment to respecting current practice and some standard that has been achieved so well and that this period of validity of the regulation is returned on 30 June as usual and under these conditions, if our amendment is accepted, we will vote in favour of this law and if it is not accepted we will not be able to support it because we believe that the new proposal would bring down the criteria that we have so far, even in some level of the Croatian Parliament and give it to the Government more than ever, than it has ever had and we cannot and do not want to support it as a position. So let's conclude, if it's a law that's common and technically, then let's keep it that way. Let it be the same as the laws so far that regulations the time until 30 June. By June 30, 2019, there are still 8, almost 8.5 months. And what the Government adopted in 2018 at the 1st month or 2017 at the 12th month has plenty of time to confirm in the parliamentary procedure in the Croatian Parliament or to pass new laws that would regulate this matter or put those regulations out of force. So we cannot support a provision under which these regulations would be worth 5 months more than they normally did. In that sense, we have given the amendment, if the amendment is accepted, we will support the law, if it is not accepted, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98446	Thank you very much. Only fellow Bulj, whom he does not have, came forward for individual debate, so he loses his right to debate. And I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98447	The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 447. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, so I would like to ask the motionary's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, respected Katica Prpic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please. One is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98448	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The SDP representative club has submitted an amendment to delete the word "student" in Article 4 and adds the word "June". The amendment is hereby rejected, primarily because, among other things, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted a Regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Peasants, local, regional and regional self-government, which indicates that, in accordance with the proposal for a legislative action plan for 2019, a reference to the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the third quarter is provided for in the procedure of the adoption of the Law on Employees and Detentions which will regulate the equal status of state and local servants in a uniform manner, and for that reason, the proposed deadline for the proposed draft law to remain in force until 30 November 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98449	It's obvious, Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98450	Mr. President. So, this law is one of the technical laws that every government has proposed to the Parliament there this time of year and we have always passed it unanimously and there are always regulations that the government would adopt from Parliament's authority that remain in force until 30 June of next year. And I don't see any reason why that deadline is now unusual and increasing by another five months. So, the regulation mentioned by the State Secretary has one or two articles and the Government can send it into the parliamentary procedure tomorrow as a bill of law, and that solves the whole problem. So this is just about the government taking from the Parliament something that it never had and there's no need, so all the regulations, the 5 regulations that are in force, which from one or two articles can either be translated into laws or abolished by 30 June. So this is something that has never been before and there is no need for this practice to change. Therefore, let it remain the normal authority of the government to pass laws when the Parliament does not meet, let it remain everything until 30 June, if there is a need to last longer, let the government send a bill to the procedure and there is no problem. If it took 2, 3 weeks for Lex Agrokor. to write, I guess for the regulation of one article, it doesn't take 10 months, 15 months. It's 10. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98451	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 20 abstentions and 2 votes against the passed Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98452	Now we're going to move to the next point and that's: - Final bill on health care, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 379; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98453	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The law is before you, I assume you've actually seen everything we're trying to fix with it in the existing law. So if you'll excuse me, in a few minutes, I'd just draw attention to some important things that we went to edit. So the basic intensity was to preserve the quality and availability of the Croatian health system, and of course we made sure that public health was preserved. In this context, we have preserved and better defined the status of health homes in a way where we have expanded our activities in our health homes so that the health homes will not be engaged exclusively in activities that are so far, but will actually be able to organise, with the palitative and more specialist activities to get as many specialists as possible to the patients. On the other hand, we have tried, which is a major problem which is also mentioned here in the Parliament and beyond in the public, to preserve doctors in Croatia, and to preserve them, especially in deprived or conditionally less attractive areas, we have opened up the space of an extremely transparent model of entry in the current terminology given in the lease or concession, i.e. defining the status of the office that allows the motive to work more and make more money to doctors in the primary. But we're also, given the problem where the many offices that are now on the ground don't actually have enough patients and that's where the institution's problem arises. In this sense, with the new bill, we envisioned the fact that more offices in the hands of an office that would then be expressed in hours or in days on different workshops would also be used to reach patients who should then travel as little as possible because we rarely have an older population that is difficult to reach distant offices. Teached by good experience, primarily in the Nordic countries, but also in China, we also predicted mobile offices where the doctor and his nurse would actually be at the service of the patients at the wheel office in hours to one, second, third place. The problem we've had in the current Health Protection Act is the problem that has limited us to the organisation of duty. Many doctors who refused in the lease or in the concession, and for this they had a legal basis, did not participate in duty. The new law regulates it so that no one who wants to have a contract with HZZO can not participate in duty. In the future, we also predicted an emergency office. In fact, we now have a situation where we have the unification of emergency hospital receptions that on average perform about 97% of emergency procedures and we have county, or city emergency, which again have certain problems because occasionally there are few intervention teams when the problem of overlapping emergency intervention occurs at the same time. Therefore, the law provides for the integration of united emergency reception, county or city emergency on the one hand, and on the other hand we are, of course, participatory of health homes, or doctors in offices or old termology in concessions. Which translates into the following, we have already done it somewhere and physically, somewhere it is being built, for example in the hospital in Pula it is now being built, in Split it is projected, it will start to build, and let's say Zadar, Požega already have it, and that means at the same location in the same waiting room there is a county, or city emergency or part of it, of course, it does not cover the entire county and a united hospital reception. In this way, we use the resources of teams that work rationally, and, if necessary, multiple teams can go out without a problem on the ground, God forbid in the event of any traffic bigger or something like that, 3, 5 teams can come out without being closed doors or still the system functioning. In view of the above, we have already prepared, just pending the adoption of the law, and colleges are ready to start with specializations and education. Specializations, undergraduate and graduate studies of the sisterhood, i.e. the education of nurses with secondary medical care who will be further educated and thus trained, similar to those already applied in the world, that they can do literally anything necessary for the urgent intervention of patients who at this time require both reanimation and other forms of care to be transferred to the nearest united hospital reception. In this way, without increasing investment, we will ensure a greater number of teams, better quality and above all better availability. Of course, we haven't forgotten for a moment that we have to change the state of hospitals and this is predicted and defined by the new law which is national, which is clinical, which is county hospitals with an emphasis on functional integration, i.e. integration. We really need to adapt the system of the age in which we live, or the age ahead of us, which means that the networks of hospitals of departments and equipment and of all human resources are now at a small distance where we have the same departments, which are conditionally not necessary, because at a distance of 15-20 km, there is such a department. This also saves people's resources, thus saving finances, thereby making rational use of equipment and, above all, increasing patient quality and safety. Because it's not the same if someone is operating or doing some other procedure once a week, once every two weeks, or if someone is doing it routinely, every day or paroleally, multiple times a day, weekly. As for the stimulation of the remains of doctors and sisters in Croatia, which Croatia has like other similar to our countries, we provide for a government regulation to regulate after the law is passed, and the law foresees paying for those who know and do more, in order to be stimulated to stay where they are and do what they do. And whoever's trying to do this is supposed to not be in medicine, in medicine it's much better to do it, but in some other activity, measure how much anyone does and what they do. And those who are in medicine know very well that we know each other very well how difficult it is, how hard it is for us, who we are looking for, who literally never asked anyone in his life to examine it because it's very measurable. So, everywhere in the world, in any hospital you now come to, with whom we want to compare, America, Japan, Sweden, different people are paid. So they have the same titles, same professional equipment, and the salaries are different. And I don't see why Croatia would be an exception to that. As far as financial sustainability is concerned, and in this sense we have made a proposal, which is that the county hospitals will have one member of the government in addition to the existing administrative council and members appointed by the county. That doesn't touch the integrity of the county, they're still owners. Only this one member appointed by the government, in a certain way, serves advisoryly and serves at least verbally, in terms of control, because we do now have situations where they are inappropriately employed, particularly unmedically, where medical equipment and other equipment are purchased inappropriately, where they are purchased at different prices than in other hospitals they buy consummated material and medicines rather than in other hospitals. And I don't see any reason, because in counties in terms of ownership and governance, we don't touch it, but in a certain way we help advise and control, because actually when there's a fire to be put out, then we're asking the government for help. Here are the occasions just indications of everything we've set out to do and a number of other things we'll have a nice conversation here and see what else could possibly be better done. And as I always say, I don't care who's proposing and suggesting and criticizing. If he makes a good suggestion, if he makes any good suggestions, we'll be grateful to accept that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98454	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused a long line of replicas, so we'll start in a row, the first one being the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98455	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, we heard an empty introduction of the bill, which will not solve most of the problems of Croatian citizens and against which their observations became an alliance of the independent union of Croatia, the Independent Union of Health Care, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Pharmacy Chamber, the Croatian Association of Family Medicine Association county employees of the emergency medical union, so there is no one who has not sent any objections to this law. And between the two readings, almost nothing was accepted. Therefore, this law does not even have an impact assessment, does not even show us an analysis of the situation so far and what it will bring to the future. He is pushing health care activities into the sale of health as goods and will not bring a solid comprehensive, all equally accessible health, and in particular we cannot expect from the minister, who supports only the trade coalition and no more citizen, to bring good health to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98456	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I'm glad you mentioned in the opening section the provisions regarding the administrative council. So I'm going to point out that the Ministry of Science and Education has made certain changes to better school committees, so this is not new to the Ministry of Health. I think that way the work of hospital and health institutions will be more transparent. And I'm wondering if you've been thinking that except for the hospital health care facilities, you should do the same thing in the public health services and the emergency medical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98458	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98459	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues here, I was very interested to know that you were specifically talking about the functional merger of hospitals, which you are planning to undertake under this law. Personally, I'm a witness to how much it's been done to connect hospitals in the functional sense of Nash and Osijek, and I don't see why it's been a problem so far, so why hasn't it happened so far? Because if the more usability of our equipment has now been made, eventually reduced and some financial separations have been made possible by certain beds, where both hospitals have definitely made better efficiency. What's the problem so far? Which is why such steps have not been taken in the ministry that has been unsaid before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98460	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98461	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and Associates. So, uh... The fact that after 10 years and 10 changes and additions we have today a comprehensive Health Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, I welcome the fact that this is a reform law that, in the convergence and synergy of two main objectives of improving the health of the population and improving health services, goes towards improving the entire health system in Croatia. First, we see through strengthening prevention, promotion and primary health care, through strengthening of health homes and offices, and secondly through organizational procedures, strengthening of daily hospitals... So all these measures that are organised towards strengthening health services and therefore in convergence, we are going towards what makes a good health system, which is to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency and thus the fundamental objective of our common goal of improving the health of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98462	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Wealigaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98463	Thank you, Vice President. Unfortunately, in this second reading, nothing was appreciated by all those remarks that came in and I'm going to ask you Mr. Minister what I asked you in the first reading, so you said we were talking about things that I don't really understand, which is article 115, where you're making it impossible to perform emergency medicine in special hospitals. You and your associates have promised, and even in some public statements, that this article will change, that it will allow emergency medicine to be performed in special hospitals, I say this from the aspect of my Krapina-Zagorje County primarily but also some other rural areas in the Republic of Croatia where thanks to the existence of emergency medicine in the special hospital Krapina spa, numerous human lives have been saved. I am interested in why this has not been changed by very simple intervention in this article, unfortunately everything else as it was in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98464	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I have been asked to ask this directly in the adoption of this law and in the debate on this law, whether, according to this law and its newspapers, changes will be given in the concession of radiology in health homes, which has not been realistically the case so far. And I'm also interested in whether you might have thought about a special bill on doctor's salary as well as a special law that would define that doctors can do up to 70 years if they want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98466	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98467	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates. The very fact of your colleague's arrival here actually tells you how much this law has been working on and how important this health care is. The fact is that health is a sensitive topic and we all talk from our point of view, I speak from the point of view of those rural parts of the Republic where you can and should actually talk about providing services to patients what is most important to them and the least important thing is who will be in the governing council and how it will be dealt with. The fact is, and we know it from experience, is that even one we call upon, both Austria and Germany in rural areas have very big problems similar to us, but if we are already referring to such countries, when we talk about the need to know that they have applied a simple formula for health-free health and that is a service times the price. I know crazy people don't like to hear it, but it's actually true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98468	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98469	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. It is mentioned in the system often long waiting lists, of course everything is referred to your name. You started a priority list model not for emergencies but for cases that can't wait on regular lists. What's the result of your priority list model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98470	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98471	Thank you very much. Minister, you mentioned a home of health, whether this gives only authority to the heads of the health care homes or I don't see that you mentioned the measures that will be kept by doctors in the homes of health in rural areas because we have absurd here, we have absurdd that half of the county has only a united home of health and these some counties have more homes of health within the county. How are you going to decide that doctors stay, that we don't have a radiologist in Sinj, Vrgorec, how we're going to keep these people, is there a solution to the measure? I don't see them, you haven't told me what measures are in rural areas in the Iot area, in the Sinj area, in Lika, what are the measures for the doctors to stay here? They don't have enough patients, so they'll be able to go head or somehow, you haven't taken measures. You have brought this law to protect only the heads of health homes who have destroyed the home health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98472	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98473	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, on my question I think in my first reading when I asked you what you would do to keep young doctors in the Republic of Croatia, you said you were planning to raise their salaries twice. We're talking about doctors in health homes. And the other topic is about waiting lists, they're most interested in citizens, especially those who suffer from severe diseases, which every day is about, is that according to what you're saying, lack of technical capacity, hospitals, is that insufficient involvement of doctors and their lack, is that the problem of informing the system or is it some other problem? And when we talk about functional hospital mergers, although the profession gives clear instructions, it always turns into a political problem and maybe the answer and colleagues that he asked before why there is no functional merger, because local policies oppose it. It is the counties that will oppose their hospital being abolished according to these allegations. That's what's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98474	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98475	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would once upon a time like this benevolently question, or benignly, and here we mention in the Law on the working time of health care professionals. In fact, a lot of citizens have come to me and I've experienced it myself as far as hospital hours are concerned. So almost everywhere it's stated working hours from, say, 8h-15h. They're getting books by 12:00, and there's no one left at 1:00. I don't know if they have any other working hours that they do at that time and then just for the citizens' sake, they need to correct it and raise awareness of what it really is. Because this is what we're really making too much traffic, especially when we're looking at it in the context of long waiting lists, especially for certain and specialized reviews, etc., etc. So I think that's the way it is, I say out of all the problems maybe benign but certainly important to our people. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98476	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98477	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers with Associates. You mentioned in your presentation the problem of going to the doctor, I said before that about 600 doctors left, 1600 announced leaving and that one of the reasons and wages, that they should be considered how to raise salaries to doctors in Croatia, you mentioned this. But we don't see from the law what kind of tool you've given to the health directors to really reward those doctors who work, who do their best for their patients. And the other problem is that there is a big pay gap between doctors who stayed in the home of health, family medicine doctors and those who are private or concessionaries. Here you have quarreled with doctors, you have not given the tools to the homes of health to develop primary health care, to have in rural areas doctors. They are mostly grouped in cities and our villages are left without a doctor, so please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98478	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'll move on, huh, you will. The Honorable Chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98479	I thank the chairman, I welcome the minister with his associates. The Health and Social Policy Committee at its 54th session held this morning on 18 October 2018 discussed the final proposal for a Health Protection Act submitted by the government to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 4 October 2018. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Earlier they also submitted observations to the said Act and the Croatian Pharmacy Chamber, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Zagreb and the Croatian Community of County. Presenting the final draft law, the Minister of Health stressed that the introduction of the principle of subsidiarity and functional integration, which clearly determines the way and shape of the organisation in the primary level of health care activity through the system of offices and by continuing functional integration and restructuring of the hospital system, will increase patient safety and improve health care. As pointed out by the final proposal of this law, preventive healthcare is strengthened, the working legal status of healthcare professionals, health workers who perform private practice on the basis of leases is resolved, the provision of palitative care at the primary level of health care activities in the context of home health activities and at secondary and tertiary levels of health activities is arranged. It is proposed to restructure and rationalise the hospital system in a way that regulates a veteran hospital, further define a special hospital that can perform certain activities specific to the general hospital except emergency medicine and introduces a national and university hospital and regulates the area of health tourism. In the debate on the law, they were divided. Some members of the board praised the differences between the resolutions of this law compared to the solutions set out in the draft law, and thus praised the government's conclusion that the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority under which the Croatian Institute of Public Health takes over the work of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of Croatia and the Croatian Institute for Emergency Medicine of the Croatian Telecommunications Office. In their opinion, this is not only rationalisation but also important for the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which has lost its influence over the past years and will now play a role as creators, proactive health policies and prevention which will also be seen in the reduced incidence of certain diseases. In this regard, they consider that amendments to Article 134 are necessary in relation to mental health and the implementation of its protection and treatment within the Institute of Public Health, as well as the need to distinguish treatment of addiction and mental disorders at the level of primary health care and the hospital system of treatment. In addition, as regards Article 54 relating to the restriction in private practice on the employment of another healthcare professional of the same profession and does not apply to masters of pharmacies and dental technicians, they also consider that physiotherapists should be added there, which would be an incentive for the employment of unemployed physiotherapists and for the development of entrepreneurship in physical therapy. Some members of the Committee also made their observations on the need for a definition of group private practice, Article 60 which is not clearly defined. The further debate also referred to remarks addressed by the Croatian Community to the county regarding the management powers of Article 83 in the Governing Council of Health Institutions, the founder and unit of the regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb and the unit of local self-government. The Croatian Community considers that the final draft of the law took away the management authority while individual board members felt that there would be no significant change and that the county hospitals sometimes take advantage of the possibility especially when it comes to losses. In the discussion, individual committee members expressed their dissatisfaction with the observations submitted to the applicant between the two readings and not taken into account. Thus, they still feel that the doctor’s overtime has not been resolved, i.e. the possibility of increasing wages and rewarding systems, which, unfortunately, will continue to result in their departure from the country. They also highlighted the issue of specialist training and, in their opinion, the pension model for the retention of young doctors in the home institutions. The promoter has also not addressed the issue of conducting a traineeship, the comments of the University of Zagreb Medical Faculty, which most considered should be taken into account, in particular regarding the health care of students who have a place of residence outside of the study and the equalisation of the salary of all persons working in a cumulative relationship in the Republic of Croatia. So, at the same time in the health care facility and high school. After the debate was held, the members of the Committee voted mostly, decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the Health Protection Act, which is here with this letter and we deliver an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98480	Thank you very much. We will now return to our point of the final proposal of the Health Protection Act and we will begin with the club representatives. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98482	Hello again, Minister, associates. A few remarks although we are at the end of the procedure, a long process of law-making that has yet to begin during Minister Varga. For a while there was a law, it wasn't working on it, and it's finally right in front of us. 10 years since the last final law we've had and 16 changes to that law that is now in force is indeed an indication that we need a new law. So the health system is one of the largest systems in the Republic of Croatia and potentially could be one of the key development carriers. So what are our goals in health care? A longer expectation of life, better quality of life and a reduction of health equality. What key moves were we supposed to make? Strategic planning of human resources and preservation of health staff in the Republic of Croatia, ensuring financial stability of the health system, quality management of health outcomes and primary health care and orderly primary as a gatekeeper. Three of these objectives were to be defined by this law and they are not defined and ensuring the financial stability of the health system should be defined by a law yet to be followed by the end of the year. So, before us is the final draft of a law that has missed a comprehensive solution to some of the key problems that are being put before the Croatian health system today, meaning primarily primary health care and the hospital system issue, and there are no high-quality remarks during the e-consultation but in the written form of many factors within the system itself that have proposed some other solutions. And without first solving, retaining human resources in health care, which the bearers have spoken to me about, but yet system carriers have no quality and no availability of equal access to health care to which we have committed to our constitution. Something that has not been solved has not been resolved for the doctor's overtime, but the definition can mean up to 180 but up to 250 hours a year. Continued work, the overwork of the doctor remains an illegal category, i.e. this proposal is not regulated, and in this way many doctors who perform it in such a range continue to expose the possibilities of criminal persecution that we have witnessed in recent years. So more than 3 million overtime hours are created in the Croatian system annually. And whoever says we have enough doctors in the system and those who write these days that every year a little more doctors don't, doctors are still missing, health technologies and new health procedures, all that we really need to develop in accordance with modern European guidelines require more and more executives in the system and there are not enough doctors and they tell enough about how devastated some areas of the system and some areas of Croatia where the doctors are missing. As regards the specialist training of the doctor and in this final proposal, the applicant insisted on the so-called the pension model for the detention of young doctors in parent institutions, where we are truly a unique negative example in the EU, because the law reintroduces a flat-rate criminal provision at the level of one budget base per month of unsecured labour obligations after a specialised examination. So, what was proposed and what might solve this part, which is the national planning of the need for specializations of individual professions that would allow for a simultaneous start, payment of specializations and allocations from one place that would allow a better quality mentor system. So the current specialisation programme is agreed with the EU and the content is essentially well thought out. The problem arises in the implementation of a specialization program that is not satisfactory and there is a major inequality between the prescribed specialisation programme and the one that really exists. So the problem is in specializations, in kind of specialization but also distribution within the Republic of Croatia. And truly the only problem, in my opinion, is the only problem that has arisen because of these unfortunate procedures, kiretages and everything that we've been talking about in the last few days, that's the lack of medical personnel. We can talk about communication that must be better, but of course it was left as a college that should be heard from the first year, high school and then college education and lasts a lifetime. But the lack of medical personnel, mainly the lack of an anesthesiologist is the only culprit that sometimes in this system is made may have failed but simply could not be covered and therefore continued this problem. So as for specialization, specialization should also be encouraged in smaller hospitals, they should try to start everything early in the academic year and end it. So all the specialists would start and finish specializing at the same time and at any moment we'd know which resident was 1, 2, 3 or what year. You've probably met with the fact that we have in our departments and we don't even know which of us they are, so we ask each and every one of them when they're specialist and what year they are. So the specialization programme should be, it is developed per year of specialization but should exist and there is a specific number, species, procedures and procedures that the specialist is required to perform in any year of specialization. Therefore, if they started at the same time, they would know exactly what knowledge and competences the specialist has that year. So the existing concept of implementing specialist training is something transferred from the past system and it dates back to the '80s and such a model no longer exists anywhere in Europe. There is a need to change the mentoring system, one mentor should monitor two specialists at most, as the limitation of the number of specialists who are both supervised and educated by the mentor is a prerequisite for quality education. The mentor should have adequate compensation for his work with specialists but a quality mentoring system, is a prerequisite for a quality system of specialized training. So, the purpose of the concept of specialist training, I've been on this for a little while longer, but we need to know that this rests everything on we're building a later quality specialist in our health care system. Thus, the concept of specialist training is to promote excellence in a highly transparent and controlled process of specialist training and can have a positive impact on the quality and quantity of adopted knowledge and skills, and on the professionally competent young doctor who will be socially respected and recognised. But what did we miss besides what we left out? So by the final version of the law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have confirmed the abolition of the traineeship for doctors or after the completion of the Medical Faculty, the young doctor will automatically receive authorisation for independent work. Such a way of getting into work in our health system is not satisfied neither students nor young doctors' associations nor those they really need to work with, which are certainly our patients. In exchange for the internship, the Croatian Chamber of Doctors proposed the implementation of a mandatory secondary as arranged by neighbouring Slovenia, which would have the required structured first part with the included primary health protection of the outpatient and hospital emergency services and attending courses, means advanced life support, but also the possibility of continuing work in the selection part of the seconds within the speciality which the young doctor would like to include later on in his specialist training. What's this about? All four medical schools, students themselves, have initiated a survey and 98% have declared that they want to have some form of traineeship after graduating from medical school. Whether it was called traineeship if Europe had abolished it, it could have been a mandatory secondary that would have allowed them to still be willing to swim into a rather serious job that is put before young doctors when they are forced to start their first job in the infirmarys or in a system that is away from where they can at any time get help from the superior. It's about islands, it's about decommissioned areas, it's about the end line to help the ambulance across Croatia where you doctor, a young doctor, will put you in the system right after college. When it comes to family doctors, therefore despite primary healthcare doctors, the provision that up to 25% of the offices remain within the home of health and thus makes it easier and more transparent for employees to switch home health care into concessions or offices, is ultimately not respected. What you need to know is that 2560 teams are actually in primary health care right now, that they're doing about 14 million exams a year but even 420 of them don't have a holder, a doctor, that's 17%. markedly unfavourable age structures, many of them over a period of 10 years, one large percentage of them retires and young people watching as we treat primary health care, and are not so interested in being doctors and especially to be doctors in the home of health. There was supposed to be a slightly different solution to the problem, of course there was no real communication. As far as the amendments are concerned, the Most Independent Lists will have 30 amendments to this law that you will get soon and on the benches. It's up to them whether or not we support this law. The amendment, for example, is something concrete. Article 69, therefore, private practice in the office cannot be carried out for the following activities. First, taking and transplanting human organs for the purpose of treatment, it is okay but collecting, second paragraph, collecting, taking, testing, processing, preserving, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells for the purpose of treatment, I think it is a failure because this proposal therefore limits certain medical activities in private practice at a time when we are aware of the long waiting lists and increased demands of citizens for health care. Therefore, simple biopsy and some findings cytologically, this second paragraph of collection, taking, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells for the purpose of treatment is prohibited. I think it's a clear pass. So what I expected is that we will solve the problem of students who need health care and in cities where they study except for the chosen doctor in the city they live in. So we have also given an amendment in Article 70 which reads: the Faculty of Health Guidance can carry out health care activities for the needs of teaching in accordance with a special law governing the area of higher education. Therefore, students and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are receiving primary health care in selected doctors of family medicine and there are problems about their references to the treatment of specialists as well as for receiving prescriptions for acute diseases in the place of study which is usually far from the place of residence. Medical colleges through special programmes agreed with HZZO currently provide medical examinations of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are resident outside the place of study and foreign citizens without the authority to issue prescriptions and instructions for specialist treatment. And then you have a young man who needs an examination of a specialist and then Mom has to put on a bus and send it to Zagreb quickly so that this boy can perform that specialist examination. In particular, I think we should talk about an amendment to Article 162 when we talk about the average results in the work for which we could now, according to this proposed legislative solution, mean that for the health care activity, providing health care in the process of diagnostics, treatment, etc. I can make an addition to the salary. So, given the lack of time personnel norms, which is the basis that we know how much who works and whether he really works more than another colleague, and now they do not exist at least in a form that would satisfy the current situation that is in health care and the inequality of work records some KBCs still do not have an information system, let alone all hospitals, it is impossible to carry out fair and necessary rewards without standardising procedures above the average results of individuals. It's necessary but at this point it's not possible. Law Proposer does not define the meaning of the term nat average result and measuring the average results and therefore we think that this is not well defined and this article will be proposed to be deleted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98483	Thank you very much. Minister Milan Kujundzic will now speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98484	Dear MPs and MPs, I've tried to capture your enquiries, so if not of course in these five minutes I won't be able to answer everything but of course I will answer everything. With regard to the traineeship, it is important to note that this government recognized it and that it was constantly open internship, so it is not that the doctor in Croatia is now not waiting for a day earlier for one of them to wait for months while the competitions would go. And with regard to the projection of which Strenja-Linić's respected representative spoke, the new law provides for work under the supervision of 24 months, as necessary, what the doctor assesses and according to which he intends to direct which specialisation so that it is provided for by the new law. As far as the Specialization Regulation is concerned, you'll actually see a little bit if you have time to analyze how we are occasionally contradictory, for a moment defend the public, and then stop for a moment a group of people to defend depending on who comes from. Therefore, the Specialization Regulation will enter into force when this law enters into force where both patients and doctors are kept. So it won't be so-called anymore. slave as some have called in millions of damages paid by doctors but can't work either so that someone specializes in investing in Požega, Virovitica, Dubrovnik and he just goes coldly towards Zagreb, Split or towards Vienna or I don't know Dublin without having any financial responsibility. Where the departing ones go, there won't be much money tied up but at least a partially damaged house that sent them to specialization up to a maximum amount of up to 250 kuna, 250 thousand kuna. As regards the overtime where he was made here, he was in line with the Labour Act and the European Union Directive on certain forms of working time, so of course he thought about it and in particular thought about what is being said here, to reward those who know work and who do. So everywhere in the world it's clear that people with the same expertise have no salary anywhere but depending on how much it works and what the results are, and nowhere is as well measured as in medicine who knows and works. So, without information, although most of the houses have information and how well they know in Croatian medicine who is who and how much who works, how much who invoices, what his results are, and in every hospital system you can see it, and in the rest of the department heads and doctors themselves know how much coronarography, gastroscopy, tooth extraction or I don't know what activities we're going to talk about. As for the flat-rates on the collapse of the Croatian health system, seven days ago I quoted Lancet here as the most respected medical and oldest magazine, and perhaps if you failed to see the actual Word Economics Foundation report yesterday, the fund that the health system in Croatia is one of the 12 pillars of any society of its quality, among the best in the world. So with all the disadvantages of Croatian medicine and the Croatian health system where we are fortunate to be as good in other segments as we are in medicine and then Croatia would compete and measure with the best in the world. So, and at the level of one year the Croatian health system has been moved by 22 seats, you probably saw that the forum lapsuz was a fund rather than a forum Word Economum forum, it was actually seen that it worked on 99% of GDP in the world in 140 countries where the Croatian health system at a possible score of 0 to 100 got 86 points. I'm always open and we need to take a critical look at there are a number of things to fix but in any case we can be satisfied at this point and strive better with regard to the health system and everyone here together criticalally talking to arguments to try to make it even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98485	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Celic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Let it be a coincidence at the very beginning, but today I congratulate all doctors and doctors on the holiday of St. Luke’s Protector Doctor, so it may not be a coincidence why we are talking today about the final proposal of the Health Care Act. The World Health Organization's most important document is the 1977 Resolution "Health for All" and when it comes to health reforms it always begins with this document, and very often it is mentioned that health term for all or health is available to all. Is health available to all, is it equal to using that wing in Croatia where 750 euro per capita is allocated or in a Western European country where it is EUR 3000-4000, certainly not, however, would agree with the Minister's finding that the Croatian health system is satisfactory, it can be better, and definitely by adopting this new Health Protection Act, I believe it will be. There is no citizen or citizen of the Republic of Croatia to whom this Law does not apply because it regulates the principles and measures of healthcare, the rights and obligations of persons in the use of health care, social care holders for the health of the population, the content and organisational forms of performing health activities and supervision of the exercise of health activities. The questions that are regulated by law relate first and foremost to the promotion of primary, secondary and tertiary health care. As regards primary health care, this Law redefines the status and position of the House of Health as a primary health care provider, respecting the natural principle of subsidiarity and the principle of functional integration. In order to achieve the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a mandate from 2016 to 2020 in the field of healthcare, respecting the specific objective of better primary health care, this legislative proposal introduces certain improvements. First of all, the services of specialised consular health care are introduced and, in controversial cases, which, of course, depends on the geographical definition and density of population, allows for the possibility and parts of stationary forms, of course all at the level of the Home of Health. Medical professionals in the office carry out private practice tasks in person, and can accept the working relationship of a healthcare professional of the same profession. Healthcare professionals may carry out activities in private practice on a team with one or more healthcare professionals or non-healthy mid-practice workers or first-graders. According to the proposed Law, the House of Health is obliged, with the decision of the founder, whether it is the County or the City of Zagreb, to ensure that there are up to 25% offices in any primary health care activity. This was an area of great debate, and I think this is a good formulation where, of course, in large cities where there is no such problem, the doctor's deficit can be up to 25%, and in certain Countys where the problem is greater, then the percentage will probably be smaller. Furthermore, this Law regulates the same area, so the improvement of Paliatical care. The establishment of the Palitative Care System is one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia and is an integral part of the National Health Development Strategy for the period 2012 to 2020. Certain units of local self-government, in particular the City of Zagreb, have already prepared programmes for the development of paliative care. In fact, we know that there is a problem with beds, palitative beds, and there has been a strong contribution to the functional merger of hospitals, but again about the City of Zagreb, we have a situation, so at St. John's Psychiatric Hospital, the Vrapce Hospital and the Special Hospital for Pulmonary Diseases, there are palitative beds that are currently insufficient and of course will need to think in new networks that this number is increasing, because we still have a situation that some of the patients in the capital of the Republic of Croatia are being treated in other local self-government units. As regards strengthening preventive healthcare, this Law strengthens the Croatian Institute of Public Health as the holder, so the holder of the National Health Institute. For the past few years, we have had the situation that only one service has been promoted to harm other services, specifically the Health Promotion Service, and so inextricably there has been an epidemological service, and we know that it is a vast area and that it should therefore be separated, such as the situation, the Prevention and Chronic Non-Infectious Disease Service, compared to the Disease Epidemology Service, but what is particularly important, it is strengthening the Mental Health Service. Therefore, with the new amendments in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. As regards the restructuring and rationalisation of the hospital system, which in financial terms presents the biggest challenge, this Law strengthens the capacities of daily hospitals, regulates the Veteran Hospital for the needs of the special health care of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, for the purposes of defence and national security on the proposal of the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Health, the Decision sets out a hospital health care facility for the military hospital, and the General Hospital and the Special Hospital, receive some updates, let's say that the Special Hospital can carry out certain activities that are specific to the General Hospital. There have been talks about this, therefore, regarding the Emergency Service, I will mention one example, therefore, of the Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Popovaca, given the configuration of Sisak-Moslavina County, has a special Internal Medicine Service, but they are not teamed enough to carry out an emergency service related to internal medicine and then such and then such urgent internities still go to Sisak General Hospital. We can be populist here with various unprofessional and unargumented thesis, here I will mention only the issue of birthplaces in southern Croatia, the issue of maternity homes in Imotski, Makarska, Sinj, Metković. Everything's fine as long as the birth takes the natural path, but what if it gets complicated? It's the same situation as the radiologist. It would be good, therefore, that every major unit of local self-government has a radiologist, but today there is telemedicine and if we have teamed radiologists to a team radiologist at a clinical hospital center in Split, then there is no need for the physical presence of a radiologist in the Vrgorac health home. I repeat, it would be better if we had such a possibility, but unfortunately they don't have richer countries, so unfortunately it can't even secure the Republic. There have already been speeches, so the National and University Hospital has been mentioned. So clinical hospitals can remain the title of university, it is awarded by the Ministry of Education, with the consent of the Minister of Health. Large resources are linked to health tourism, the Republic of Croatia is rich in natural resources, which represent a great potential for the development of health tourism, not only at sea, but also in the continental part. It has already been established with a study that there are 222 locations, and only 18 organised treatment centers. There should certainly open the possibility except for this congenial Western medicine and for the development of traditional Chinese medicine as aquapuncture, therefore in the light of health tourism. But we need to think incorrectly, therefore, by respecting the concepts of modern modern psychiatry, we today have a situation that on two islands, specifically on Rab and Ugljan there are psychiatric hospitals, which have just been established far from the great middle, where the great density of the inhabitants is definitely not necessary today. As far as I know, Zadar County has already begun certain changes. So, these hospitals don't need to be shut down, but they can be re-routed, and if there's a need for additional hospital and psychiatric beds, which I don't think they are, then they can be on land, where there's a possibility of co-operation with major clinical hospitals or at least general hospitals, so as to ensure the best quality of health care and for people with mental disorders, who are having some kind of somatic incident, if they're inside these special psychiatric hospitals. In addition, the legislative proposal introduces a national register of healthcare providers, the possibility of rewarding workers, a lot of speeches on how this will be valorised. Therefore, based on the results of the work in healthcare, and in the form of a regulation to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Working hours, i.e. the problem of overtime, I think this way, this legislative proposal regulates many situations and, in some ways, those concessionaries, where this system changes with the system of office, return to the Croatian health system, are no longer the world to themselves. This again improves the quality of health services, but it also needs to be seen whether this law, by respecting those minimum 40 hours a week, is possible for those doctors, who are on duty, therefore, to have the possibility that their working hours are shorter in the day. For example, such a situation exists in the laws of Austria, where doctors do not work until 4:00 p.m., but work until 14 p.m. if they are on duty and thus reduces the problem of piling up, i.e., paying overtime. Finally, I would mention the urgent medical issue of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, which is attached to the Croatian Institute of Telemedicine, as regards administrative councils, so I welcome the changes in the sense that the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, appoints one of the 5 founders, thus definitely managing and managing these health institutions, will be more transparent, thus making the number of political appointments, i.e., the change of directors, reduced to the least possible measure, which also contributes to the overall democratisation of Croatian society. The HDZ Club will support this final bill. We have invested 2 amendments, one concerning that physiotherapists can perform private practice, that they can have their own offices, it will not represent any burden on the state budget, but rather will encourage employment and, on the other hand, regarding the role of public health services, that is, their services for metal health, prevention of non-patient treatment of addiction, we stress the preventive character, and this curative character, should remain within the frameworks of the health care institutions, i.e. the hospital health system, because in this way we prevent the destruction, i.e., all the forces of those teams of psychiatric who deal with the problem of metal health in public health institutions, we direct to the prevention of all mental disorders and to treatment, rehabilitation of non-patient treatment of addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98487	Thank you very much. Before continuing, please welcome the students of Varazdin Natural and Mining School, who are here with us... And now, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric, will speak. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98488	Nice greeting to everyone, especially the chairman and Mr. Minister with his associates. I personally did not participate in the debate in the first reading in this law, or law, but only indirectly. But I will continue to trace what was said in the first reading of this bill or what was said on behalf of the club by the president of the club Anka Mrak-Taritash, or at the beginning I will say the following. The GLAS and HSU club will move in space so that it can be restrained against this bill. Why? Because this bill of law, given the health situation and the expectations of our patients or citizens in general and the doctor, did not get what was expected. It started in time with a rather ambitious plan to amend this law, which means that it could be followed and maintained as a new law or a new bill, meaning it could not be brought under the amendments and amendments to the law with full law at the time when it started to talk and discuss amendments or the new law. However, as time went by, so were steps backwards and up to this day, meaning until the final draft of the law, there were many objections to this bill, and in the meantime, meaning from the first reading to this second reading, but we do not see that it all had an important impact on what the law looks like in its final version, which is before us, and indeed where the profession has really worked to make constructive proposals where it could have been much more to meet the profession, primarily the medical profession, is not done in our opinion enough and therefore we are not behind it, or we are going to be the ones to give this law special support or consider it to be reformic as it was announced to be from the Ministry of Health. Of course, we need it, we really need it as soon as possible but not just in health care, in various important social segments we need new laws, I would say innovative laws, we need competitive laws, we need creative laws to awaken our social realities and not just social but economic realities as it is because we all witness that the good is not. But I don't get that, but here's two years of mandates running, we don't get that from the present ministries, and then, of course, not entirely from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we don't get any messages, significant messages through the proposals of the law that we can hope for some change that will be important within a single term of power. Everyone's trying so hard, spending a lot on the so-called. In order to prove to people that something is done and indeed in reality, that is not the case. I'll mention very briefly, so the experiences of our citizens as patients and I've been doing it for almost a year are the most intensely said, horrifying because you have a feeling as a patient sometimes you really depend only and exclusively on whether that day has arrived when you came for a checkup, have reached the hands of a doctor, nurse or an entire team who is ready to be fully in service that day, given that we have no conditions in hospitals or in terms of the number of staff or equipment such that these people would be happy and warmly accept the pressure of the patients you have in hospitals. So, the experiences where you come to one Rebro that I suppose is the best hospital, KBC in Croatia, where you come to a polyclinic, which I find very hard to remember, but a few thousand people probably go in in the morning, they're all ordered at 9 o'clock, in these halls you can't pass how many patients there are, of which is always more than half of the elderly patients, 80, 90 years old who don't even know who to call, let alone where they sit and wait for a check, where they're quite nervously reacting, of course, and otherwise the administrative staff who are there in charge of the divorce of those patients who are ordered, quite nervously, actually one atmosphere that is personal to me as a person who's in representative authority, who's already there, 6 or 7 years old, who has passed the laws, were terribly frustrating. If I hadn't actually witnessed all those seven years, unfortunately I wasn't sick at some time when it was a little better in that health care, having some feeling that you're left alone, that all these people are on their own and I'm telling you, some kind of goodwill. And you can really be grateful to all those who devote themselves to you as patient 1/1, but I'm afraid that's already come to the limit of impatience, and for the doctors themselves and of course I won't talk about patients at all. There's been a limit that they don't do it anymore for the money they receive and neither in the conditions in which they work, nor in terms of their progress, nor in terms of the good atmosphere, the working atmosphere as it can be said, I don't think there's any way they can hold out much longer if something important isn't done. Of course, it's going to break and break on patients. You gave up what may have been only revolutionary, should have been revolutionary in this law, which is actually to privatise primary health care. I personally think it's a good thing, I think I can say it on behalf of our club that you gave it up. I'm not against private initiative. In health care, even in fact. However, the public activity paid out of the budget with contracts that are defacto exclusive contracts, this one, cannot be in a position to be hereditary today, which you would argue is not, but many have read that it is, that it will open that possibility. I'm glad that at this point you gave up because I think that much more sophisticated should be approached by this kind of restructuring, I would say primary health care or the possibility that doctors want to stay in private, in primary health care, that they want to specialize in it and that they want to improve that activity. It's not simple and I think that once our colleague here said I had the opportunity to be a minister, but this amount of responsibility taken by the health minister is really big in the Republic of Croatia and it takes, I would say, and a little personal courage. Therefore, neither the minister nor his associates should always be attacked. We just need to get a very good analysis of what the problems are, which are possibilities, put priorities on paper and start at least with something in that system to improve the system. So, there was no time for hasty statements that we would privatise primary health care, and that's good with the law predicting that we would have instead of concessionary tenants and tenants of the office, that's a new name, as much as we can expect behind that new name in reality, we'll probably see it in some other sublaws. However, what was the experience after the introduction of concessions was the experience that most doctors in these contracts did not accept or accept in principle that they participated in everything the ministry had as an idea, as well as in the home of health, health homes had as an idea that they would have to submit or work within family medicine or their offices. Especially in this section that referred to participation in duty or participation in the care of those emergencies, but which are not so urgent that you would have to call or call an ambulance to which an ambulance will respond or go to a hospital emergency. So, something that, I know, we've called some kind of heavy and strong pain or I don't know, some kind of pain that's unknown, but it's gonna be solved by someone, some kind of doctor who's not in the E.R. system. It was the idea that our family medicine doctors would be involved in this. But most of them, I have to say from experience, most of them refused or were not willing to participate or were willing to participate, but there was no money for it. So I warn that changing a name and having a good intention of making a difference is not going to change that if it means people who have to do it on the ground and don't agree to it, or they don't get into that system. I'm warning because I know it didn't work in our time when we tried to establish it, which, of course, has implications in the functioning of today's non-patient emergency, and hospital emergency, because they're overloaded because people simply don't have exits, but they don't have anyone to come to, but call an ambulance or go to an ambulance. So that part if we don't solve it, and we haven't solved it before, and Asa needs the money, that's where I wanted to maybe even finish it. So, nothing from the health reform until the finance minister gets involved in it, and we've seen how he got involved in all of your proposals, Mr. Health Minister. So, he said about not raising taxes, on, and it seems to me like cigarettes to improve the financial situation in health care, or to sort of punish patients for being poisoned, so you'll have to treat them. He said no. However, it is true that we are much better quality and health care and dreaming that all our young people will be flocking amongst the doctors at one of the most difficult studies that lasts at all 6 years, so that after that we may be, as we heard in these discussions, defacto nothing, because only then must you start learning something in practice, and then until you come to the specialization, that I don't usually count. In order to become a complete doctor with the greatest engagement you need to get somewhere to your 35th, 36th, 37th or 38th, but the fact that you're really doing everything on PS and being a very good student. Which, of course, is possible, but not in that mass that we expect to engage. So, money is needed, it takes much greater responsibility for citizens and patients towards their own health. That's where we're gonna have to make big moves. So, I absolutely agree, especially after what I've been through myself. So thinking about your health should be a priority. However, we see that our owners, as they would say, do not think too much about it since in education we do not have absolute letters of health education and that the health ministry is unable to adopt regulations that will in some way penalize all those who directly endanger their own health. Since there are 20 seconds left, I don't have until a lot of things I've been meaning to say but I'll try to contact some replicas later in an individual discussion, so say some more things that I thought in this debate. Everything about support, she goes, I tell you from abstention to opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98489	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98490	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. On behalf of the HSS Club, I can say that we are not satisfied with the Final Proposal for the Health Protection Act, and we will table several amendments. You said in the introduction that the health system in the Republic of Croatia should be available, that it should be quality and equal throughout the Republic of Croatia and that it should be sustainable and that through the system it could be financially monitored so that it could be sustainable from family medicine, health homes, hospitals and other health institutions. It's not like that at the moment. First of all, I have to say that this is not just our remark because we had a public debate in the first reading a lot of remarks and patients and these days and in the public media. We've had a lot of objections and trade unions and professional organisations themselves within the health care community. And most of these remarks were not respected, you did not accept and therefore dissatisfaction. But here you are satisfied, you as our people say may be. Because you have the support of the prime minister, you have the support of the purchased majority here in the Croatian Parliament, you have the support of the HNS coalition partner who says he supports your work because as anyone on what, the HNS on reforms and on honesty. Now, in order for this health care system to really be fair, it should be equally accessible to everyone. And he is not at the moment and it is a general impression from the field that the law does not influence the improvement of the availability of primary health care and see it as an introduction to the privatisation of health care. Because what we and our patients are interested in is what's going to be in that medical basket. Whether he remains in force a solid health system or if he has money, he'll be treated and who doesn't, I'm sorry. By law you do not offer us better conditions for doctors or patients, which means that we will continue to have our doctors abroad and our patients will still be sentenced to long waiting lists, i.e. checks scheduled for only a few months or a year. In your comment on the discussions so far, you said that it is not important what he says but who says that we are not educated and professional enough to comment on health care and the Health Law. Well, here I am, on my own, wondering if I'm professional enough to comment on the Health Law, if I even have a brain. So I gave myself a hard time and I put on, I typed on the Internet, I'm looking for a magnetic resonance of the brain. And look what results I got. In Vukovar I can get an appointment for 109 days, in Rijeka in 220 days, in Požega, which is close to me for 238 days, in Slavonski Brod 323 days, in Pula 482 days and interestingly in Dubrovnik there are no appointments. Now, is that equal health care available? Who's to blame, if there's equipment, if there's any magnetic resonance in Dubrovnik, if there's a doctor or if I don't have enough knowledge and brains to comment on it? Well, Minister, if you don't believe me, I'll let you know that list of appointments so try and order yourself. This bill will allow you from the home of health, this is a system that has been widely known and that we are on such a high list because this primary health care family medicine system has been well organized through the health care system but you will continue to make it possible with this bill that it is a dying system because there are not enough family doctors and because doctors are leaving us either in major city centres or leaving the Republic. The key question is where does it lead? Some say you're a gemist with the law because you don't offer solutions and here you already mentioned that the role is important here and as you say the owner and I'm saying they're not owners, general, or county or city hospitals of the county, but they're just founders. They're a paper tiger because they don't have financial opportunities for everything they're expected to, most of the county doesn't have the means to do that because they manage through these decentralised funds only part of the funds that the ministry puts down for investment and investment maintenance, on everything else, have no influence. And what's important to say is that one strategic approach is missing, how much for one county compared to the number of citizens, compared to the improvement of citizens, to all statistics, needs a doctor of family medicine, how many nurses, how many logos, how many gynecologists, how many anesthesiologists. Nor do we have this information for individual counties so that they can manage the health care system better, nor do we have data for Slavonia or for another region. So this strategic approach is missing and we can't even see that it's planned through this proposal, the Final Proposal for the Health Law. Because now you have a situation that for more than 20 years we have concessionaries who are above all not in relation to the directors of health homes or the mayors could influence them, how they will work. And many of them have done well and well, and there is good for them. However, you have done one injustice, that the doctor of family medicine in the home of health has a lower salary than the one that is a concessionist, you have caused one dissatisfaction, and we do not see this bill correcting this injustice, especially that they have not had to work on a holiday or on weekends or organise duty or a morgue. You're getting better here, and that's good. However, the problem remained with how much family medicine needs to remain in the health care system so that they could exist at all because most of the health homes, I was already talking about it in financial problems. You put it here in the draft law in Article 103, up to 25%. When you say "up", it means that it can be 5 and 10 and 15% and it's simply not a good formulation and it doesn't ensure the survival of that system within the health home and our proposal, we'll make an amendment to make it a minimum of 30% of the office because you can't expect from the county and from the health homes that 100% of the system works if it has something up to 25%, it's simply not sustainable. I have already said, and you should also see how to enable, give a tool in the hands of the health directors so that they can reward those who work, and there really is a doctor of family medicine who is working, who wants to help their patient and their home of health because they are emotionally connected to a system where they work for more than 20 years and some more. It is also important that neither the health and county homes have sufficient resources to provide quality equipment and medical family medicine, it is not the same situation in Zagreb, Rijeka or Vinkovci, Slavonski Brod or some small hospital in the rural area, and we need to know and we need to know this and we need to start initiatives to get these medical equipment and not to get a tourist on the island in the infirmary, have an asthma attack and die in that infirmary because the doctor is young and inexperienced and did not have an oxygen bottle. It's a reality that happened in Croatia, don't let God ever happen again because we have to fix it and it has to be from a national level through the financing of this system, equipped the infirmary with all the necessary equipment to continue to exist. Furthermore, what is important to say here is that the lack of a family doctor is mentioned, and I welcome the initiative to unite emergency medicine, to unite emergency hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital receptions because it was precisely because there was no doctor in emergency medicine, there was a terrible pressure on the united hospital emergency receptions, and there was simply a lack of doctor and it was also a cost for the hospital system and it was also suggested that HSS to unite it and that's good. However, there is still a lack of specialization in emergency medicine, lack of pedicure specialisation, logopedes, palitative care, etc. And that number of specializations is rising, however, and you pointed out the problem when one hospital in Nova Gradiška or Slavonski Brod, sent 10 young doctors to a specialization in Zagreb and returned 1 or 2 after the completion of the specialization. We have not solved the problem, and you have well mentioned that it must either be penalized or stimulated by doctors to stay in that facility at least as much as they spent on specialization while the institution financed them and paid them. The problem of lack of doctors can also be solved, as I have already mentioned and you have done nothing in collaboration with colleagues from the Ministry of Science and Education to increase registration quotas to medical schools. It's said the staff has but lacks equipment, technical conditions etc., so we have surplus in the state budget, so make arrangements, invest in that system, increase registration quotas to medical schools and thus prevent the lack of doctors in the Republic of Croatia, that's one of the models. The second proposal that HSS has already put forward, and I will repeat here, to reduce the number of patients needed to negotiate with HZZ in rural areas because there are no patients, there are no simple residents. And now there's a possibility that the infirmary and the doctor could start working with 750 patients contracted with the HZZ of the insurance company. But he has to look for more of those until 1700 in other settlements, so then you have a situation to work at 2 or 3 infirmarys. That's good, but it's not good for this patient who lives in the middle. I've already mentioned to Grandma Anka who came because she's in pain, she's not working today, she's in another infirmary. She neither has money nor has a bus connection to go to Slavonski Brod. It is therefore better to ensure that more doctors are provided for such areas and to allow the doctor to contract with both 700 real and full amounts paid with HZZO and that he does not have to ask for the difference because he has to ask for it, 50, 60, 70 km to go to another infirmary, so your car breaks down, so it's a storm, so he doesn't come and the patient needs health care. And in that sense, we have tabled an amendment to amend this in Article 44 where the conditions for the opening of the infirmary are discussed. I mentioned that the system is not sustainable, and that is true, that the health system is not financially sustainable because the huge inherited debts from the previous period have been recovered, but much remains. Losses or debts in the health system continue to accumulate, some hospitals are still over 600 days away from paying to suppliers. The daily limits and monthly limits in these hospitals are such that they cannot regularly operate and pay debts from the previous period and objectively it is also a burden for this tiger of paper for the county as founders because some of the suppliers can perform the hospital if there is no funds on the hospital's jury account, they will complete the county as founder. We ask that, given that we have a surplus in the state budget, that part of the debt from the previous period is part of it and that is to be said publicly, part of it is paid, but now there is a simple to go on and pay according to the obligations, knows which hospitals are in trouble and that this health system, at least in this way is financially consolidated. It's said there's no money for that, so here's the HSS proposal to fill the state budget, we've proposed a property origin law, because we all know that somewhere around 40 billion a year, through the gray economy, it goes into private pockets. The bill was rejected, and the tax administration could determine by tax cards, the disproportionateness between income and assets and charge immediately to those who illegally acquired the property. No, it's been rejected, we don't need income, and we need it for the health system, and it's not a good approach, because here's the thing, a party or a club from the opposition suggested, and that's why it's not accepted, and we need money for both the health system and for the mentioned veterinary hospitals for our defenders, we need for stronger palitative care, and it's good that through this law it's defined, but we need more beds. And what's important is to say that there is a lack of training for patients, families, and doctors. We do not see that anything in this law has been done to reduce the cost of acute treatment and to avoid costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98491	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of HNS Representatives Mrs Bernarda Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98492	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honored State Secretary and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, countless times, it has been mentioned that the health system is crying for reorganisation at all levels, both in terms of financial sustainability and especially in terms of better provision of timely, quality and all of our patients equally available health services. The fact is that health care is necessary to decentralise, strengthen preventive activities, provide better working conditions for healthcare professionals, better hospital protection with the strengthening of daily hospitals, improve palitative care and ultimately create an effective system and better service for patients. This final bill is a step in particular in terms of improved primary health care, reconstruction and rationalisation of the hospital system, as well as health tourism. As regards primary health care, the proposed law redefines the status and definition of home health, as a health care provider, at the primary level of health care in terms of strengthening its cooperative and organisational role. According to the proposed law, the home of health is required with the decision of the founder, i.e. the county, or the City of Zagreb, to ensure that there are up to 25% of offices in each primary health care activity. According to this legal proposal, the home of health can organize the so-called so-called health care. Support for the infirmary and mobile hospitals and mobile teams of palitative care and paralytic care stations. They will also be able to coordinate the working hours of all the offices in their territory and organise special duty at home. The legislative proposal also introduces the system of offices at the primary level of healthcare. It is prescribed who and how can perform private practice in the office. Furthermore, doctors who will carry out their activities in the offices must have a contract to rent a business space in a home of health. The paying of the rent will be according to the criteria of height, lease of business space, which determines the representative body of the unit of the regional self-government, i.e. the City of Zagreb, which contributes to transparency. It won't be by the one who's closer to the stove that heats up better. I need to look back at the article. 56. where private practice is mentioned in a special vehicle which fulfils the conditions under the rules on normatives and standards of art. The 50th paragraph of this law. Namely, that doctors can visit patients on the last vehicle, I'm interested, and what about the drugs. Namely, we know when a doctor comes to the scene, examines a patient, prescribes prescriptions, and the pharmacy is out there, how we're going to solve that part of the drug story. As regards the restructuring and rationalisation of the hospital system, it was aimed at strengthening the daily hospitals, as a new form of organisation and providing hospital health care to extra-patient patients. In addition, it is good that it is a palatable concern, which will also be able to be carried out at the tertiary level, health i.e. clinical institutions, of course, which certainly improves the system of paliatical care. Unfortunately, we are a country with an increasing number of sick and elderly people, and we know what the situation is today on the ground, that few of them have to worry about, or those who are lucky, are working at work, and others have already left. The proposal also regulates a veteran hospital for the needs of special health care of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia under the law governing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The legislative proposal introduces the concept of a national and university hospital where the most complex forms of health care would be provided to the population of the entire Republic of Croatia. In particular, I must refer to the proposal referred to in Article 162 relating to the award system for the nat average results of workers providing health care. We hope that despite the legal possibility, everything will not remain a dead letter on paper or that it will not be who is better with the boss that will get paid, unfortunately we know that the Law on the Protection of Personal Data is in force, that we do not have the ability to publish on advertising boards, on the Internet pages of people who work more and are also paid more, or that I will be punished to say so to those people who do not comply with the norm, because I suppose there will be a norm and as far as we have heard the government regulation regulate how this will be calculated. An adequate reward in a facility where they work would eventually reduce the work in the fus, which we think would also reduce waiting lists. When valorising work, only objective indicators should be monitored, so statistics, the amount of complexity of tasks that someone solves over a given period and exclude any subjective impression. I also commend the introduction of a national health care provider registry that will include all healthcare providers and thus enable users to have a comprehensive insight into all healthcare providers. Namely, both legal and natural persons performing health care activities in the Republic of Croatia shall be registered in the National Register of Health Care Providers. Furthermore, I must mention that between the two readings our comments were adopted during the debate in the first reading normally seemed to have been detected by some other representatives in Article 83 where it was possible for members of the board to be other professions, because as far as we know in the first proposal, it was only health workers, and here it is now accepted to be other professions. I propose that since this is also about the adoption of financial plans, final accounts and analysis of financial operations, as well as the adoption of general acts, it would be good to consider including those lawyers and economists in the work of the boards of directors. In the first reading, we also pointed to Article 11(1) of the 37th and to pharmacies in terms of the market for public and private pharmacies. That's what we were talking about today, so I don't think there's much more to talk about. I only conclude that the HNS Club will support this Final Proposal for the Health Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98493	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Sinisha Varga is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98494	I thank Mr. Chairman, Ministers and Associates here is before us a second reading of the Health Protection Act and on behalf of the SDP I will present several remarks and views regarding this law. In fact, the first basic and one point of view would be that this is actually one precedent in the adoption of this law to pass untimely as well as the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. In fact, in history since the ages, these two laws have always lagged out precisely because of their interlinkivity and in fact provisions concerning this law regarding health care organisations and patients' rights must be consistent with the method of financing these same facilities in health care and the very rights of patients to health care in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to some things about the health system in the Republic of Croatia, I would agree that my international experience that it can admire actually a lot of things in the Croatian health system about success, success and things going on at the daily level, at the level of a doctor – patient – patient – patient, organization of health care that we can be proud of with achievements in the Croatian health system, but that does not mean that there is no room for improvement or at least preserving the level we are used to. When we talk about the level at which we are used here, the minister called the World Economic Forum and a recently published study where we ranked 32 in the world on the functioning of the health system, with an extremely high score, and with this we can truly be proud, but this same study indicates that since 1990 we have been ranked 24th, therefore we can systematically say not only stagnation but also the decline of the issue of a valuable score of the functioning of certain segments of the Croatian health system, which should be alarming, in fact, not a thing as the health ministry as a health sector, but a question of the situation in the health sector within the entire society, and here I have to solidify myself with the health minister in the financing segment that the central state does not meet its obligations and that we have a complete problem of disagreement between the rights of patients and the method of funding. But again, I'm saying it's a matter of mandatory health insurance and I believe that this law will soon come to our benches... and the power to argue about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The entry into the public debate itself since the first initial version of the Commission made and the way it was incorporated in the public is also talking about a rather ambitious and pompous law, which I personally supported because certain steps are really needed for future periods to have a health system that is resilient to all the challenges that we have in terms of ageing populations, chronic non-infectious diseases, population migration, capacity reduction in human resources in the health system, which is hinted at through demographic and other measures that we have as predicts the future. And now we have before us a defacto law that, after certain concessions in discussions with coalition partners after certain changes that have already been made in the first reading, and now we have a law that we can almost pass on to the consolidated text of the existing Health Protection Act. There's a few things in there that are commendable set up. However, they concern only health care professionals, as regards health institutions, concern certain segments in the orenisation. But about the patients themselves, about their rights, about the way they will achieve better healthcare after this law, than they have today, unfortunately, it has lagged behind in this law. I have a few remarks, purely technocrats about a few articles in the law itself, and for this reason I am very sorry that none of these concern the very rights of patients, but they are very important for the functioning of health care, so I'm going to give these several examples. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 54th, we have two It is defined that there can be only one office and that there can be only one fellow employee within the office itself. We have two principles here, primarily because this is something that I was a member of the EU's accession task force back in 2006 and 20017. One of the things we saw there is that such provisions do something called positive discrimination where we discriminate against Croatian citizens by rights in our own country, and that we cannot limit those rights for all other EU members. In fact, the German doctor and I already have these situations today. The German doctor has his own private practice in Germany and in Croatia opens another office because it is possible under German law, but a Croatian citizen in Croatia cannot, but in other EU member states. This is a bit of an absurd situation that gives some kind of constraint and I would like to know, in fact, what is the law enforcement authority that wrote this proposal to us as legislators, which was the intensity of that as well. The second observation is about limiting employment in the offices. I am, in my own time as we wrote the same law, and when we came to this provision in the Health Protection Act, we found that in the former SFRY the restriction of employment in crafts was lifted in 1986. So it's my question why, then, in 2018, we still have any legal provision on restricting employment. It's something I consider to be anacron and there's no place to be in any law in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the Health Protection Act. Therefore, if there is a business interest, if there is a patient's interest and if it can be done, however, any employment in any place that, in particular, does not burden the state budget, I think there is no point in legally limiting it. When we're talking about Art again. 54th that the limited office is only one locality, only one office, then we have in art. 55 which is an exception that says it can be in areas of special state concern or as it's already called today, but let's say rural, mountainous and island regions and that's something that's legalizing a single practice that exists today or for many years now. Here, I personally became convinced on the long island and on Brač where family medicine doctors are on Tuesdays and Thursdays in one hospital, Wednesdays and Fridays on the third, and on Mondays and Saturdays they are in the fourth infirmary, thus covering the wider geographical area of their patients and thus not limited to patients having to travel to them, but that they travel towards them. And that's one positive instinct and I think it's good, that's the legislator now legalizing. However, what remains in the law itself is what I have convinced myself in practice that no minimum technical conditions are defined for these exposures. And these minimum technical conditions in today's hospitals, this dislocated infirmary is quite often not satisfactory by anything, not according to the equipment, not by the squares required and prescribed for these offices. Further, in Art. In 60, everything related to group practice is defined, which I believe is particularly positive, because group practices today exist only as contractual form within the HZZO system, i.e. in the basics of the rights or the basics of the contract, and now the part is regulated by the two disputed segments are one related legal form and form the group practice itself, whether it is an establishment, a association, a company, a company or something, but it is also taxed out from which all sources can obtain group practice and income, and it is left out most likely on purpose and HZZO, and I personally believe that the interest of HZZO is also to unite contracts to have fewer entities with which it deals and if it can, instead of 15 individual offices, negotiate with one group practice, then reduces the bureaucratic burden. When we see Article 58(2), for my concept, little is given to the companies' rights to impose insurance in the very business relationship between the private insurance company and the doctor's office or the polyclinic, too much is given that prices have the right to determine only one of these two parties, I think that in this private relationship which has nothing to do with public health activity that price negotiations are a matter of business relationship between two business entities. It is not necessary for the head of large capital to be given here of great importance and given a legal basis to impose his price policy on another business partner. In Article 59, it is also defined as related to group practices again, and I apologize a bit by jumping up and down, but here's Article 59 says that group practices can only be established between private healthcare providers. The practice has proved that in small rural areas where there are not many concessionaries or future offices in relation to employees of homes of health interests in the field of duty, organisation of work, organisation of preventive checks, there has always been an interest in joining health care offices with those in the concession, but this has been hampered by the contract with HZZO, and I see that now the intensity and the Ministry of Health is also being maintained, I think it is not good that this should be united somehow. When we see article 83, several predecessors mentioned earlier were related to paragraph 4. The formation of 2-2-1 in the formation of administrative councils, I am not a lawyer, especially I am not an expert in constitutional law, but I think this is quite a usurpation of the management rights of the county itself as founder of health institutions at its level of health care and quite coincides with all the decentralisation that we listen to every day from both prime ministers and other ministers in the government of the Republic and I believe that something that can be a consequence and not in any way apriori, according to this aprior, to define that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to appoint a member in the administrative council of the county institutions and let's say to nothing, in that case, the state jumps in, and the county voluntarily places in the administrative council of the state and for my concept again for a limited period of time. Since my time is running out, I'm also going to continue with a few of these points that I have written down. Again, I stress that this law itself was very pompous and was strongly announced, giving indications of major reform measures, however, there was obviously no force there, and perhaps no desire to persist in these reform measures, and then we can only conclude that this was just one big step for one man but a very small step for the Croatian population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98495	Thank you, Mr. Varga. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Milan Kujundzic will now have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98496	I would like to thank all the representatives of the clubs for their reviews and suggestions on this occasion, which could possibly further improve. It remained in the air of a special hospital and emergency service, those new law as well as so far can carry out the emergency service of the activity they are engaged in, translated if they are engaged in special cardiology then can have cardiology but certainly cannot have ophthalmic or dental medicine and vice versa, if not someone in Popovachi is engaged in psychiatry, they can have urgent psychiatry, but can not, of course, have abdominal surgery or anything else that is completely illogical and thus protects Croatian public health and entry so-called abdominal surgery. privatisation and Americanization because the theoretical opening of special hospitals with the possibility of opening an emergency would significantly complicate and reduce the quality of public health that we will certainly try to preserve. He was also asked whether radiological offices could be privatized, of course they could, because they would be in an unequal position with gynecologists or pediatricians so that the law could solve that in itself. What caused some recommendations on the board this morning, and now here in the debate, is why a new law proposes a member of the county hospital's administrative council, and why it is not proposed, someone has also appointed for institutions or health homes. Indeed, the Government seeks to maintain the principle of decentralisation and wherever it is not necessary not to interfere in the management forms or forms of control, however, when it comes to county hospitals, some of which are extremely negative in dealing with a major deficit and rarely operate and with forms where irrational masters, which I have already spoken to both human resources and employment and buying equipment, and buying built-in materials or medicines that are ultimately required by the Government, are not actually allowed to be suggested and controlled in a well-intentioned professional way because it is an absolute minority, but in a certain way, this model will allow us to have insight into what is going to be done, that there will be some irregularities and that there will be no interference in terms in terms of governance, because in fact one in relation to five can be done because it is an absolute minority, but in a certain way, this model will allow us to have insight into what is done, that it is apparent and that there is not really sought out a major problem and that the results are not really taken. With regard to the waiting lists that have been touched, the priority lists have indeed made one big positive shift, for seriously ill people in the Republic of Croatia and in these 9 months, somewhere around 15 000 people seriously ill who would have waited, given that there are waiting lists for many things, where, of course, someone has discussed well, there is also a number of unwarranted references that this same government has kept in mind where we are now going to have certain other forms to control the unwarranted reference to certain procedures, with priority lists 15 000 people within 7 days received diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. The objection was also to give more space to the heads of the home health. However, with a proposal for a new law of several health or county heads, it is not those who decide who goes and who does not go to the concession regardless of who came 10 years ago, who came to the home of health 10 days ago, but will decide the wider democratic body, i.e. The county assembly and will be better controlled. Finally, the number of specialists in depressed areas was taken into account and primarily from UE funds were given specializations in those areas where about 200 people are now specializing in gynecology, pediatrics, emergency medicine and I will do it again later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98497	Thank you, too. You have a replica, two replicas. The first one is the replica of Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98498	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the Honorable Minister, I'm glad you listed this emergency medicine thing, that it will be possible to perform, but I'll read you one more time what it says in Article 115(2) of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since I really want to be constructive, and we in the SDP want to be constructive, the SDP Representatives' Club will propose an amendment to be added in Article 115 and paragraph 3 which reads that an extremely special hospital can perform emergency medicine from activities carried out in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. Therefore, in a specific case, if a special hospital performs the activity of internal medicine as its regular activity, it may also carry out its internal activities through an emergency internalised office. Here, I think it's a constructive proposal so I believe you'll at least accept it then through the amendment itself when it's not already included... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98499	Thank you very much, time, thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98500	I think you're in... We fully understand and obviously need to prepare languagefully, so that when someone deals with cardiology or any other activity, it would be logical and I mean what I said, everything that's good, I will personally suggest to support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98501	Thank you. And the second line has Mr. Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98502	Thank you. Dear Minister, distinguished associates. I would ask one question, one model which, which is extremely good to me, could contribute to increasing the quality of health care especially primary or emergency services, is this functional integration of the Emergency Medicine Institute with hospital medical institutions for the emergency hospital reception of the home of health. I'm just curious maybe if it can be explained briefly what it would look like, how it would work, or which model, who was in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98503	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98504	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, the county assembly is responsible, or the health care office of any county. She's competent and as it works, you can, you're relatively close to seeing her in Požega, so in the same waiting room around are the offices of which are two or three county emergency and the other 7 or 9 are united hospital receptions. And then when a patient comes in with chest pains, he doesn't chase right away, many times it's not stenocardia but it's actually something else but clearly what you know as a doctor. You will see the doctor of the ER and will say Mr. Jura, Mate, Marice, Anice, you do not need further processing, you can go home and vice versa. So, county, answer short, county health care office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98505	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates now. The first is Mrs. Zeljka Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98506	Thank you. And here we can see in today's debates how we can all agree on one, which is that health care must be available and that it must be quality. Which means available we know who live in counties that unfortunately are territorially or fortunately large but very rarely populated in some areas and with an old population like my county which, I would say, is one of the oldest counties in view of the population that lives in it. What we must certainly point out is that this quality of health care depends on those who are holders of this health care, and these are particularly health care professionals. So not only doctors, nurses and technicians, physiotherapists, so all those involved in the very conduct of these duties that are important to us to improve the quality of our population's health. What I always point out is that these people are doing superhuman forces, and we don't have to keep pointing out, I think we all know that, I'm going to give you a little example, one small hospital, it's my hospital and the Radiology Department where only five specialists work and thanks to colleagues from the Health Department, specialists in radiologists, they're kind of trying to make it easier for them. But no matter how many there are, they have not forgotten their Hippocratic oath and they continue to do quality work. We're talking about waiting lists, we're talking about how we've been waiting for a year and more for some checks, and here we are, so now you can see on the very example of this little department why that's the case. But if the doctors hadn't forgotten about the patients, I can tell you from this example, the Head of the Sisak Radiology Department reports an additional 100 terms every 20th of the month for the necessary patients. So for those who are on the priority lists. So, every cancer patient within 10 days needs to get on the ultrasound or already the search he needs. But what's going on? On a daily basis, 20% of patients don't show up for their scheduled exams. So that, with all that we have, is one of the indicators, one of the criteria on which we can act and where we could reduce those waiting lists. As doctors, as I said at the very beginning, do it with their superhuman powers, these colleagues of mine have done an excellent act. Although the vast majority of our equipment is quite outdated, which we have already talked about several times, with our perseverance and work, with their lobbying, they have managed to isolate the mammal hospital to get a digital mammogram, so that our patients have quality diagnostic checks. Here, I can thank our director for hearing, even though we know that my hospital, like everyone else, has big financial problems. And, of course, the county government that supported us in all this. What should certainly be mentioned, which is a good feature of this Health Protection Act, is that it was meant for those people who work at several locations, therefore, specifically in primary health care. If I understand correctly, and I believe that I am, doctors who work in hospitals without carriers and who sometimes don't have enough patients and go to remote hospitals, can make or agree with their team that will have more patients than their home ambulants, which, of course, depends on what their chieftain depends on. What I would suggest, which will already be edited by the Rewards Regulation, which we heard in the previous debate, that all those doctors who work in primary health care, especially those who are under the Health Department, when working outside of their infirmary, if that clinic has a sufficient number of patients to pay them not only overtime work but also give them a certain salary supplement. I know you're going to say that these are financial expenditures now, but that's one way to call it good will, so let's call it good will, that these doctors stay working at their jobs, because you have to know that usually those who are in the health homes and who work on more jobs are not the jobs in the center of town, but the workshops are a few 10 kilometers away. And that they often lose their whole day and aren't with their family in those hours when they should be. This may sound unreal right now, but here I am going to give you an example of a gynaecological clinic where a doctor who has only half the patients from what is recommended leaves Sisak, leaves Croatia and goes to the Court. So, on average, the Court is the most remote destination and needs about 70 kilometers in one direction. Here, I really think that on this example we can show our good will, that these doctors who really do their best to ensure that our population has quality health care, by the fact that our health homes separate certain money for their additional payment, would still show that we are taking care of them. I won't even mention the lack of a doctor anymore, because we all know that very well. We're in County famous for getting along in every way possible, but to have very good examples, we do. The department of Sisak gynaecology two years ago, concluded business cooperation with a gynological oncologist, not because the hospital can't get gynecological oncology, but because it takes us four years and more to get a quality rope specialist to come to us, who will operate. In this way we allowed our patients not to wait in Zagreb, but to be able to operate in the Sisak hospital. In this way we thought, therefore, of those most vulnerable groups, those who are seriously ill, and since I said it was mostly the elderly, they are often alone in their illness because you know that their children are in remote cities. What should also be commended is the functional integration of emergency assistance, i.e. the better functioning of the Emergency Medicine Institute with united emergency hospital receptions. I quote my county often as an example, not because I think they're the best, but because I've been through each of these segments during my work and I know how hard people are trying and how much they invest in their education. And that's why I often point them out as a good example. So teams of two in Sisak-Moslavina County and in any case I always want to highlight and commend because there are really the best-quality people who continue to invest in their education. Here I have cited just some of the examples my county has made and some steps, I hope some will follow. I didn't go into some interpretation of the law because it serves us the ministry to interpret it but certainly this is what I suggest I hope will find a hearing for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98507	Thank you, too. Mr. Cellic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Josic, I'm glad you used the example of the facility where you work. So it seems to me that General Hospital Dr. Ivo Pedišić Sisak is not functionally connected to any other hospital. There's been a situation before that the General Hospital in Sisak doesn't have a psych ward except for a polyclinical service because it's logical that it exists if there's a need in the neuropsychiatric hospital. Ivan Barbot in Popovacha. Of course, however, Sisak can serve as an example of the fact that other than those large parts of medicine, these are internal surgery, pediatrics and gynecology unless there is therefore a need for hospital departments to be attached in a way to larger centres and to remain a polyclinical service because this will greatly increase the effectiveness of the health system as a whole and improve the quality of services for patients who need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98509	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98510	Thank you. You've noticed that we don't have a psychiatric hospital department, although we have extremely good psychiatrists at our clinic and we're trying to meet the needs of our population. Once 20 years ago, the neuropsychiatric hospital was, as I recall, and I was still a student under Sisak Hospital, but in time it split up, and so we were left without an extended department but still with quality polyclinic practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98511	Thank you, too. Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98512	I'm sorry, Your Honor, Minister, Associates, Honorable Vice President. I'll first start here a little bit different with one saying, the old one that says that health and freedom are said to be very similar. We only understand their value once we've lost them. Another saying again says that the best doctor in the world is everyone to himself. And 500 years ago Leonardo De Vinci said that a man spends the first half of his life losing his health and then the second half trying to bring him back, and unfortunately it is very difficult and impossible and then it can no longer be done but must be through the health care system and therefore health care must be a serious, organised system that needs to improve health care availability, improve treatment outcomes, means prolonging people's lives as much as possible. I must admit through the debate we have heard on several occasions that we are missing a doctor, that doctors are leaving Croatia without them, that health care is inaccessible. And yesterday I read, I mean this in the Evening List one article that, probably from statistics, says that in the last year in the Croatian health system, 677 doctors did more than 4 years ago. Somewhere means 12 grand 223 versus 11 grand and 400 years ago. It means that yet the doctor has, probably not only well distributed, that is, we must find all together how to deploy them and in those most inaccessible parts of Croatia, the most unattractive maybe for life, and here in fact, there must be the role of all of us and the ministries and local and regional units of local self-government to find a way to provide these doctors with the conditions for them to go to work in the most remote village or the least really municipality in which they should spend their time. From these discussions you could actually hear that through this second reading, i.e. the final bill of many things well foreseen in this new law, that it is really here and done, that there are a lot of things that are of quality and that will actually improve the health system and especially here I look forward to improving primary health care or staying in a health home in this form for the time being. I know that in other countries there is a second already system where perhaps the home of health is no longer needed but I think that Croatia is not yet at that level so that it could simply abolish the home of health because I fear there would be one part of health insurance, or our insurance companies that would not be found anywhere or find health care or a doctor who could cover it. And that is why it is extremely important that, in some ways, primary health care is promoted in this form. Status is redefined, the position of home health as a primary health care provider, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of functional integration are introduced. And that's why I'm glad, it's this functional integration of emergency medicine, because I think it's one area that's always in some way dangerous, or that can cause a lot of inconvenience to our fellow citizens if it's not at the right time and it's actually a very difficult job since for four years I've been in the ER as a head of emergency service and as a doctor, I know how demanding it really is, actually a demanding job especially when it's in the old days, it's mostly young doctors, now it's going to be mostly and a specialist, actually people who are really educated for that job, and I think that it really should contribute to a better system, and I'm really looking forward to the dispensing of actually hospital emergency reception, which right now is very difficult for all those who don't go to an emergency doctor or an emergency hospital hospital reception hospital reception hospital reception, but it't really solves their problem, and it's actually causing a lot of stress, and it's very hard work, and it's very hard to be hard for some people, and it's very hard to think. What the home of health needs to ensure is to see different activities, among them filling a network of public health services in cooperation with local self-government units, but I think it would also be very important to work on education, prevention and with all systems, and here and with those who are not doctors that they are local self-government units. And here we are, for more than 20 years, in the Croatian network of healthy cities, as in one, I would say, it's the association that organized the public health school of Andrija Stampar, where we started to include as many cities, associations through cities, public health, meaning our institutions, county now, to somehow improve the management of this prevention and education of people's awareness of the importance of health through various examples of good practice done by some cities, municipalities, I don't know, let't know, let's say Istria's cities are very much in that section, above, to say with all the numerous suggestions and ideas and here, we, through a long range of years, in Vinkovci we organize a health fair, just to popularize health and to bring as many people as possible to control and control and control and control the pressure, sugar, fatness and any other search, in fact, which would be very important in some way of health care. And that's why I think it's a good thing that we can work through it together with the co-operation of the local self-government unit. What is also very important to me is the improvement of the Palitative Care, here, for which for many years already, there has been a significant fight and work in this sense and the establishment of a system is one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia and is an integral part of the national strategy for health development until 2020, where here, now contains a description of the organisational legislative framework of palitative care and priority measures related to strategic development of palitative care strengthening... Because it is an area that requires just such cooperation, an increase in hospital capacity for palitative care, but also these specialist services and the inclusion of, of course, health and civil society homes through mobile teams that should help such insurance or our patients, which are estimated to have up to 46 thousand a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is also important to me, just one of us, Croatia has one of the better or best organised health systems, which is in danger of going to one part of the doctor's departure, one part of which does not want to come to those parts of Croatia that are not attractive, of course these are larger cities most often so that we have one part of the doctor who will rather stay in Zagreb than come to work somewhere in Eastern Slavonia or any other part of Croatia. And therefore, this model of a more satisfied model of rewarding workers for out-of-average work results should be the same as one of the segments that will help to encourage people to stay in this area, and that, in particular, here, if you can find a way to help them subsidize or reward, to stay in those parts of Croatia, which are in such an area where it is not attractive. So here I think we can really do this bill and commend and actually there are a number of changes that will provide a better health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98513	Yeah, that's the paradox, that the first part of life, when you lose your health is much more interesting than the other part when you lead a healthy life. You have one replica, not mine, one replica of Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98514	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. This debate of a respected colleague, Karlic, is actually well noticed, the perception is very important in society, and if you remember now and perhaps in the past, some hickey or publicly available to doctors and medical staff, it creates a bad picture towards doctors and medical staff in the Republic of Croatia, but gives an even worse picture to those young future doctors, who actually do nothing to prevent them from leaving their homeland, which we ourselves are guilty of with these public speakers. You said this law improves primary health care, that's what matters. It's important that people hear it, that they know it and that they won't be left without such primary protection. And if something near the end I can say, these short replicas, maybe the minister won't like it, but, let's just say, in Austria, when you have in... where there are no people, where rural areas as well as ours, there doctors, along with providing their services as family doctors, have the right and opportunity to sell medicines in their offices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So instead of pharmacies, and thus additionally earns, that is, it further stimulates them in such areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98515	Thank you very much, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98516	I agree with most of Mr. Babic's exposure. What is important, which is also important, that in the new law that there will be in some way mobile teams of primary health care, means that one doctor will be able to perform in several places right here in these areas that are so little attractive, rural. So that we can ensure that health care is available.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98517	Thank you very much. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. Individual, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98518	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected ministers with associates, here, we have in front of us a final bill on health care, a new law that introduces a number of newspapers, a modern law that needs to bring one security and stability to all those participants in the health system. What it takes for all those who are planning to decide on such a demanding profession is to know what it will be in the future, what it will look like in about 10, 20 or more years if one of them decides to study and then specialize. Therefore, this law deserves praise in that part that the first reading was before the summer break, we had it on July 5th and afterwards all the remarks and suggestions the Proposer well considered whatever side of this assembly was coming from, whether from opposition representatives or ruling, those remarks which they considered to be good and high-quality are included in the law. I think that's the way it should be because we all need the same goal, the health of our citizens, and as much quality health care as possible. We must not forget that only healthy people can work and therefore investment in the health care system is necessary and is in any case profitable. I'll refer to some articles of change that we had compared to the first reading. Well, for starters, I'm glad it's in art. 36. the functional integration model for emergency medicine activities is introduced, and this activity is organised in accordance with the decision of the founders on the basis of a concluded functional integration contract concluded by the Emergency Medicine Office, the regional self-government unit, the hospital health institution which has a united emergency hospital reception and the Health House. I hope that through this article, as well as some others, that I am not quoting them in order now, some of the situations we have now will be avoided. For example. When there's an accident on the spot, the first thing comes out is a medical emergency team. They're at the ER. Then the team comes out with a vehicle that is best equipped, goes out with the best educated people and continues to take him to a united hospital emergency reception. So, the one that's part of the general hospital. In our Sibenik-Knin County General Hospital Sibenik. If it is found that, unfortunately, it would be much better for a patient to drive to Split or Zagreb, then the Director of Health should be invited. Then the health director needs to see who's on call. Most often these vehicles are somewhat less equipped than the one where he was first taken care of and then drove to Split, Zagreb or wherever else. I believe that this is exactly how these new amendments to the law will be allowed for the patient to arrive as quickly and qualityd as possible to the last point where he will be best cared for. It is precisely the cooperation of these three emergency medical institutions, general hospitals and health care institutions in this way that will be better regulated. We have further changes relating to the composition of the boards of directors. I must say that the Croatian Community of County would be far more pleased and once again I appeal to the applicant to consider the composition of the administrative councils of the hospital. If they are founders, the opinions are that they should still have a majority, meaning of the five members of the board that they belong to 3. However, what I can also notice and praise is that there has also been a change in education and conditions for members of the Board of Directors. According to the proposal in the first reading, it was necessary for members of the Board of Directors, except that they should have completed pre-graduate and graduate university studies, to have 5 years of work experience in the field of health. That part of having 5 years of health experience in the new second reading of the bill is not what we do not have, which I think is right because someone who has a legal or economic college and experience in their profession will certainly be very helpful as a member of a board of directors of such an institution. Furthermore, yesterday we had a proposal for a law on catering activities that spoke about the development of health tourism. We have the same provisions in this law. Big praises and the Minister of Health and the Minister of Tourism that finally, here, they found a way and put it in one and the other bill since it's been said for many years and I say we all swear on the development of health tourism, we have great potential. However, since this was not legally regulated, foreigners who came for health services in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, stayed there and had a whole package of services, from those transports, accommodations, excursions and of course meals, could not receive one bill, received two bills, from the most common institution and a company. This has caused a lot of discomfort among the users themselves, so, here, all the praise that will finally be well regulated through both laws. The part relating to rewarding those employees and, above all, the doctor, I think that it should be resolved, so in more detail, perhaps not now through law and we note that these above average results in the work of health professionals, that these proposals for their application, mean time-time human code-sheets and that they will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation. As a member of the board of directors of the hospital, I would only appeal once more to the ministry. After the Government has prescribed how these people will be evaluated, it will also ensure that money in the state budget does not happen to be a new business deficit, for example. General hospitals that will go to harm both the founder himself or that again the founder and members of the board of directors themselves do not resort to not rewarding those workers who have an average score. There is so much in short about these changes between the first and second reading with a further request that this Community proposal should be considered given that they consider this proposal to reduce the number of members by the founders to be denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98519	Thank you, too. Mr. Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and Associates. So, in addition to the fact that we are in line with EU directives in this law and that in a coherent way, all those 10-acre changes are integrated into this law, so the amendments and addition of the law in the last 10 years, this law as I said this morning in a short replica, therefore has strong reform features. Why? So it is clear that the objectives of each reform, their aim should be to improve the health of the population. However, specific goals that lead in the direction can focus on improving health itself or on improved health services. Therefore, the fact that this law strongly promotes the concept of strengthening primary health care, hence one new concept of family or general medicine, or also, complemented by new concepts and new content, in the first place, so the right to private practice of physiotherapist, midwife, sanitary technicians, dental medical technicians etc., etc. This law actually strongly promotes strengthening primary health care and thus actually meeting most of the health needs of the household closest to home or at primary health care level, the ideal is that around 80% of health needs should be met at that level and then savings actually saves financial resources on the demand side, which means that patients or citizens are less looking for a hospital where healthcare... Comparably expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, this law also strongly promotes promotion by promoting healthy lifestyles, and the minister himself is trying to result in certain reforms in the tax sphere that are created to tax those products that violate health, of course, tobacco etc., even though this was misunderstood in our public in fact that in this way primarily goes to generating new funds that are not without a goal, but the main goal is therefore to improve the health of the population and thus reduce the costs of health services. What should also be welcomed here, therefore, is a comprehensive concept of paliatical concern which has been particularly deficited in these transition countries, and this is, of course, now regulated in a new and better way. What we have here is a new law newspaper, in fact, that this law has now institutionalized what is required from a particular group of our population, so a veteran hospital, a military hospital, etc., so institutional legal bases to deal with it in such a way. The national register, therefore healthcare providers is also a very important contribution to this law to improving the quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia. What is also important here to emphasise, therefore, by measures to rationalise hospitals, by functionally connecting them to the site of reduction or elimination of hospitals themselves, by raising productivity in secondary health care, so by purchasing and training staff for sophisticated equipment such as robotic surgery, the concept of daily hospitals and day surgery,... hospitals... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as they say, in this way we have actually solved many rural areas of Croatia where the depopulation has taken on a larger scale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, these two directions, strengthening productivity in secondary health care which actually reduces health costs on the side of the offer and strengthening primary health care that reduces health costs at demand level, we in this way in addition to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the health system, we go to what is the goal of every health system, efficiency because we do not know it well, no health system in the world that can pay how much health care can provide, and always in that way, by saying the impact of moral imperatives to say and real opportunities, we need to look for the best solutions or that best balance between what we call efficiency, efficiency, equality, etc. etc. For those who, in fact, in a way, evaluate or paint dark tones, I would recommend that they go several months to one Switzerland, for example, which stands out for the health care per capital of $7 to $8000 compared to our $1,000 or less, so that they try to order with the best insurance in specialist health care even if they have broken... Like my grandson broke a few months ago, so he'll see how long I'm gonna say it, days to get a checkup. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I can say that this health care system in the Republic of Croatia is a good health system and that both the existing government and the ministry are improving it. What I can also welcome is the rationalisation of health agencies, and it seems quite logical to merge, for example. The Agency for Medicine, I now say Colloquial, not pronouncing the full name, the Agency for Toxicology and Anti-doping, the Agency for Drug Abuse with Public Health, seems to me to be a good concept. What I think may be this remaining time that we had before us until the law was passed, and that's what I'm saying, as well as the university teacher and the former health minister. And that is, this medical care of students, who are studying outside of the residence. Because the students and the colleges themselves, who educate them, put it as a problem, so I got a letter like that myself. On the other hand, I know while I was even more active in clinical work, that the problem of this cumulative working time, the teacher at the health care institution, clinicians and the university, uh, I don't know, I can't be sure that it's settled in a satisfactory way for everyone, but I think that this is also an account that needs to be carried out. And now that everything is not so I say, that as part of the parliamentary majority, I boast I will say so, and one of my remarks as I see it. In fact, this law, I would not say the law, but by looking at the rationalization of the merger of agencies, therefore, as would be quite logical, therefore, the merger with the public health office, where the agency I have already mentioned and some others I have not mentioned, seems to me to be a questionable merger of the Agency for Accreditation and Quality of Health with the Ministry of Health. Because as I am named, the Quality and Accreditation Agency, I named it as a voluntary, voluntary, on the other hand, the government, the ministry, creating regulations, laws, normatives and standards, meeting these standards means certification, dissatisfaction means ban. For me, accreditation is, therefore, a voluntary process, where a health care institution, now we're talking about health care, should actually voluntarily be accredited, should be her interest. And accreditation of health care institutions, about an independent agency is then a message for insurance companies in the process private, but for private... From his pocket that it's a good health care facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these are the things that should be taken into account as part of the health reform, that the Agency for Accreditation and Quality in Health is separated from the government's innuendos and that institutions are accredited according to the principle of volunteering, because I believe that this volunteering is best guided by the quality of clinical work. Anyway, I think this is a good law, that this is reform law, and of course I will support it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98521	Thank you very much. And now we're going to take the opportunity to welcome the students, students and students with teachers, and I don't see them from here, from Ivanec High, who came to visit us and please welcome them with a nice round of applause because they've waited a long time... And it's nice when the government is here between us except for what I said yesterday, when there's them, ours is more, right? [[Applause.]] And now Mr. Ivan, and we have a replica, not that that's the previous replica of Ante, Mr. Ivan Lovirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia, Professor Dr. Milan Kujundzic and his associates. I welcome all of you citizens who follow this debate in the Croatian Parliament. There is no citizen who is not interested in the matter of health policy and the Health Protection Act. What kind of health system is it in the Republic of Croatia? Every single one of us leaving because of a problem, where does he go first? Just look for a manual first, in primary health care and go straight to the hospital. When you get to the hospitals, you see an endless pile of tin in there, you can't park in the parking lot. When you get in the hallways, you see crowds everywhere. We have a feeling half the state and city is sick. It's actually a real picture of health care in the Republic of Croatia, because now I'm going to try to figure out what's behind it, what's behind it all. Of course, here just before some debaters and MPs said the situation was very good, but they don't understand why people leave the health system. Well, they would have to offer answers to those questions, because then it turns out that their debate, it doesn't make much sense. So let's do it in a way. 20 years ago, in fact, Croatia was established administrative, legal and political, on 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. Practically, the counties became health regions in that structure, so 20+ City of Zagreb 21. What is the situation now, we have a situation that practically primary health care he should manage cities and municipalities, but it is in the jurisdiction of the county. So, the county also manages general hospitals and health hospitals and pharmacyes, as well as primary health care. If we are discussing at this concept level, then we come to the next conclusion that the administrative system and this geographical division of Croatia, at 21 let's say 21 of the county of the health region, has not proved effective, or has not proved even fair because it is not well placed. Why? If you have two or three examples, if we have county, let's look at some county, so they run general hospitals, who finances these general hospitals? He marginally funded them by the county, meaning with his revenues. So let's take for example. The General Hospital in Požega, the General Hospital in Požega, therefore, has about 890 employees and in its income structure they have approximately 179 million kn of income at the end of 2016, and out of it comes as much as 148 million kuna. You could list some other examples here, we're taking a Sisak hospital that's just been talked about where over 1,000 employees work, same story as over 90%, 95% financed by HZZO. What do I want to say about this? So I want to say that simply this system that rests in the county as health regions he is unsustainable and Mr. Minister please means we are an opposition in the assembly it would be good that in these topics this is an important topic before the final law is passed to think again about the new organisation of health care in Croatia, and the Party We change Croatia with our expert team of which some members participated in preparations for this law, but unfortunately this went in some other direction I don't know why, so maybe you could explain it. We propose to establish a system in 4 health regions, northern, western Croatia, Dalmatia and Slavonia, why, because there are university centres, medical schools, clinical hospital centres and in these 4 health regions we can provide patients or citizens of services can have access to all services. Unfortunately, this is a short time I don't get there and I can't make this very, very interesting topic of division more widely, but I'm going to focus on what we should do. In front of the Party We change Croatia which is, in fact, the only, the strongest opposition here, not by the number of members but in the programming sense, we think that we need to make a few key health moves that really make it even more quality and accessible to citizens. The first question is to claim that the health system doesn't have enough money, it's not true, gentlemen. Croatian healthcare gets about 7.5% of GDP, which is the average of European Union countries, therefore the health system has enough money. The fact that he's a health bag has too many holes is what needs to be solved so the money doesn't leak. How can we handle this? First of all, the centralisation of public procurement, only our experts calculated only on the purchase of medicines that annual ordinary medicines, especially expensive ones that amount to about 5.5 billion kuna, can be saved 10% from the first one means about 550 million kuna. And not to mention other public procurements, hospital mergers, better cost management, which could increase employees' salaries above all medical staff. What is the schedule of the cost structure of health care, 37 almost 40% is hospital treatment, drugs are 18% imagined, but primary health care is only 13% we have an abnormal system why, because the pyramid of health care is upside down, Mr. Minister, like this. You know well that it should be like this, which is at its bottom, at its bottom is primary health care where at least 40% of doctors in primary health care should work, because it is the first feature of defending the health of our citizens. It's not like that today. Please stop another process that hospitals are turning into primary health care, we protect doctors in hospitals to deal with patients next to their bed, but let's develop primary health care like Ireland did a few years ago, they started building 14 healthcare centers, investing about 70 million euros and doing a great thing in Ireland. There it can be solved in primary health care as the first line of defense of health about 80% of health problems. So, we see the solution, we know my people, but there's still a crowd of hospitals to people, and then we have impossible waiting lists, and it has to be that way. Furthermore, what the Party We Change Croatia is still proposing, so you can't work in the hospital a little publicly in private you know or do 8 hours here or go to work in private, or the situation that patients in the small tens are animated for afternoon checks where there is no waiting list. The Change Party Croatia is very clear in principle. Public Health Public Health to all those who wish to have private means of the hospital, the clinic, please don't have any problems. I would especially like to stress here that when it comes to the word so we have prepared 17 amendments and I ask you to read them and that what is good enters this law because we all care about the health of citizens. What does it matter when I talk about primary health care? We suggest that in health homes you are now what I would like to commend in front of the party change Croatia is that you started so-called. mobile office, mobile teams that's good because there are more and more places that are underpopulated it's one positive commendable thing you've done, but let's do some more things in health homes let's not separate home doctors and now doctors who work in offices. Why, when it comes to space you give these which are now called concessionaries to give them space for 1 kuna, why, so it will be cheaper and primary health care and they will work means offering services to their cheaper. There are still a lot of suggestions but time does not allow me to look at everything, but we have suggested that in one article you will see the amendments you get to the list of institutions of special interest for the Republic of Croatia and the Immunological Institute which slightly, slightly means neglected, collapses, and you know well everyone here and we know that he is of strategic interest and of national security. So, to sum up our health care health care system can only be effective if the policy is driven out of the health system, if it is managed in a quality way, if it does not serve incarceration and political networking and ultimately that everyone is doing their job And we economists know how to do it. [[Intruder: Professor time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98523	Thank you for understanding, but you'll have more work to do because you have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98524	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović, you spoke about the structure and illogicalities of the establishment of the House of Health, yes, I will always repeat and speak it is possible that in the Split-Dalmatia County, the largest County, we have a centralized House of Health which the Minister of this Law has now given authority not to, that he has found a solution for doctors to keep, that he has found financial resources, but he has given an even greater authority to Petric, Dragomir Petric, who, after the Falling, along with him in turn, destroyed the House of Health. Destroyed. In Vrgorec, here's the mayor, let him say what the House of Health is like. You were in Sinj, I saw you, you saw what it was, only the Cetina province has 50,000 inhabitants. And now it's strengthened by Petrica and the clerks and the arrests that money decentralizes the state, instead of the other way around, to find a moment to keep those doctors, to have radiologists, to have people to examine, everything in us is the other way around. And this is how the law was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98525	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98526	Dear fellow Bulj, I will talk about the Health House in Split, I know something about it, and it is true that HDZ has replaced several members, its members in the Administrative Council of this House of Health to finally choose a man who already, I have no idea how many years down there runs the House of Health, in losses, and so on, and so on. That's what they're talking about, but this coalition loves people like that, you see, who are making losses, who are deficus doing. Well, you see, today I've discovered to the public that the governor of the Croatian National Bank has made 1 billion kunas of a new loss in six months this year. And he was personally pushed by the prime minister to be governor and to destroy this economy, this financial system and this state. You are, in the coalition government, and you are responsible for all that is happening, from the House of Health and beyond, because the government is in your hands, I invite you to finally come to your senses and turn in another direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98527	Now the second replica is from Mr. Varga. Sinisha Varga please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you mentioned only one segment related to the beginning of your presentation, it is related to the expenditure on health care or per capital spent on health care in the Republic of Croatia that is about 7.6%. It is an official figure that is quite often cared and in public, which is professionally, however of the 28 members of the European Union, we are the only member who pays maternity benefits and sick leave from health money. The sickness benefits are workers' rights, and birth rights are social rights, when those expenditures, which are about 2 billion kuna, are excluded, health spending is about 6.7% with an increase in the health budget in 2018, we approached 6.8, but we're very far from 7.6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98529	And to you, Mr. Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98530	Dear colleague Varga, only dear God knows the true accounting of the Croatian health system. When you look at the last few years, on the annual report, everything turns out to be a hospital system in a positive. But then a new year goes by, you know how it's done, these are additional invoices that usually, year after year, last year, amount to between 2 and 2.5 billion, where they come from, they're the limits that can't be sent to hospitals by the end of the year, and then they send after. So let's get people to cut it already, so we know exactly how the system works, so we can't do it anymore. Now there's about 5-6 billion kuna of outstanding old expenses, you can't do that. The process has to be monitored, so hospital directors, so I can't be doctors, I'm sorry. I don't know how to operate, and the doctor doesn't know how to run a hospital. But the economist doesn't even know how to run the hospital himself, if he doesn't have an interdisciplinary team, that's what the party wants to change Croatia, so let's solve this mess more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98531	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98532	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, you have opened perhaps the most important topic that seems to me to be passing through this Law, which is primary health care. So, on the one hand, we have concessionaries who should invest in primary health care because there is no need to mix the privatisation of health care with the entry of private capital, in this case the concessionaire. They're just looking for security so that these devices, the equipment they're going to get, that later on, they can keep working on someone else, and that they're having an impact on it. And on the other hand, we have health homes, where doctors are underpaid. And even the last mini tax reform in which 1.5% of contributions are released, and put into health care, that should be welcomed, but how will that money patch up the holes that exist in health care? And here we see, now and from the forward colleagues of Varga, that means, they're not even clear to us, what's being paid for in the health care system. Not all go to health and improve citizens' health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98533	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98534	Thank you, colleague Sagar for asking. The past months, even a few years in Croatia, fear the system of concessionaries in the House of Health, so where do my people live? They make the prices and services very clear and defined by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, HZZO, as well as the so-called home doctors. But what's this about? That's where the old model wants to be preserved, is that you watch out for so-called home doctors, those poor people have too little pay and get the same headtains as concessionaries. However, who is sucking out their infected money? Well, director and assistant staff, not medical and so on, you understand. Therefore, they show that 15-20% can be saved, that it can be done more rationally, and everything to be controlled by HZZO, that it does not endanger our citizens' pockets, which means we are future or potential patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98535	Thank you, let's move on with the individual debates, Mr. Marco Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98536	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I must say what has already been said on several occasions through the discussion of my colleagues, primarily of course, from the opposition benches, unfortunately that this law, compared to that first reading, does not have the necessary changes that we expected, and in the truth my colleague and indeed, my colleague Varga, when he spoke in front of the SDP Club, said that this was actually a consolidated text of the existing law. What has also been very crystallized is that it is actually showing one great dissatisfaction with the whole law, but especially in this section concerning the proposal for a primary health care organisation. I can say that one impression is that primary health care is directed towards privatisation. The homes of health that are here are the holders of and primary health care are defined here in the law and I can say that it is generally experienced in Western Europe by a single revival and it is unfortunate that we are going in the opposite direction and we were pioneers in this area and in fact we have managed in the past to provide one stable health care in all corners of our country. As I said, our health homes are still defined as primary healthcare holders but the provisions governing the organisational forms of health care provide for one entirely different role of the health homes, and in fact this seems to be one definition without a basis for true achievement. In fact, the question arises as to how this form of primary health care will function in remote less populated environments, with fewer inhabitants, what we call rural because the home of health is aware that they must also provide health care activities in such environments. What can be expected is that private practice will be established by all doctors in primary healthcare offices who have the number of patients equal to or greater than the standard prescribed by the HZZ. So within our health care homes, we would actually have teams that had insufficient insurance against those resources that were allocated by HZZO, so we would act with loss and would not have enough resources to pay for those basic costs in primary health care. So it's mainly about hospitals in remote places where doctors don't show their willingness to work, and since health homes should ensure the conduct of healthcare for such hospitals, there's a question of how health care homes would deal with the difference between the income and expenditure of these hospitals, in order to provide doctors with work in these hospitals. And I can say that actually in the organization of health care that is foreseen by this proposal like this... It is impossible, for some reason, that health homes will do negative business, given that in their composition they will have offices once again, which will have much higher costs than the revenues they make. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here it is, I can say an example of your Krapina-Zagorian County, we have a total of 26 teams of general family medicine, and now the situation is that 13 of these teams have a number of insurance companies that are smaller than the standard, 13 teams have the same or greater, and then when you have this balance, in the existing system in some careful financial management, you still manage to sort of settle this possible deficit in business, and now, unfortunately, it won't be the case anymore. What I can say is that in general, the counties and we are all here declared to have some form of decentralisation are actually given a very small role in the field of health care, so the Ministry makes a decision on meeting the conditions for the start of private practice and the consent of the representative body of the regional self-government unit is necessary only in the event of a change in the scope of the activity. What I would also like to refer to is the provisions of the draft proposals contained in Article 268, so the issue of starting to implement the private practice of healthcare professionals, which are until the adoption of the Law in a working relationship in the home of health, therefore I also think that this agreement should be made by the founder rather than the minister. I think that however, the provisions of the law under which health care should be at least 30% of the surgery in each health care activity, the proposal is now 25%, so here I think the practice so far has shown that only in this way can primary health care be organised throughout the area covered by a particular county but also respond to certain crisis situations. I will, of course, look back at this article 83th paragraph 4 which we heard here from the ruling benches one dissatisfaction that leads really to one centralisation of the health system, which is that the number of members of the boards appointed by the founder from 3 to 2 is reduced and that the Republic of Croatia is entitled to appoint one of the members of the governing council, one very bad, one very ugly message to the county, obviously not believed and I am glad that the Croatian county community here has been referred and some representatives from the ruling majority, and we will also invest as a club here the amendment, and I believe that this provision that is very controversial will move back and return to the old ones. Here was an article in 115 that was already here and a small debate with the minister, and I am glad that it has been promised that emergency medicine activities will be able to be performed and in special hospitals, there we will also propose an amendment that will be precisely defined. It is important that this is made possible especially in rural areas because we know that we have problems in general with emergency medicine which is often and timely and spatially remote for me not to go there for an explanation but here, the activity of emergency medicine, which is why I am particularly sensitive to it, is that if you do not pass such a law if you do not pass the amendment so that it is not possible to carry out this emergency medicine activity in the Special Hospital of Krapina Toplice where thanks, of course, to the existence of the Magdalene clinic, many human lives are saved, because such a single one is actually the activity of emergency medicine within the very special hospital. We must say that all health institutions, that the Ministry of Public Health of the Krapina-Zagorje County supported this and I believe that the minister will keep this promise that he and his associates have mentioned on several occasions that it will be so. Here to finish by little, I think the draft proposal for this law leaves the impression of one single strengthening of centralisation through a significantly greater role of the ministry that is related to regulation with the organisation of health care and I must say privatisation of public health activities, while we are doing health care homes as primary healthcare holders something in which we have a great, great tradition of a great reputation in the world. On the other hand, certain financial obligations of the founders are growing, and on the other hand, the impact of the counties in the organisation of health care is reduced in the area where they, therefore, are managed by them. I think that this law, here's my opinion, is that it's unacceptable we should have worked more to respect one postulate of primary health care, respecting the postulates and Andrija Printar who says that the principles above the policy that we can't do the difference between economically strong and economically weak, we can't do the difference I'll add between urban and rural areas and in the field of health we also need legitimate principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98537	Thank you, too, two replicas. First Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98538	Dear colleague Vesligaj, I am very pleased that you have strongly stressed the importance of primary healthcare in the healthcare system and I and the Party.Let's change Croatia that this law will make the biggest step there, but not some minor positive changes have been made, as I said, but it is not. Let me say, you probably know that out of all the expenditures within the system, about 3.5 billion kuna goes to regular medicines, and the entire primary protection goes to 3.2 billion, so primary health care can't work that way. In order for it to be at the level that we need it to be effective, it must rise to at least 25.30% with 13% of total expenditure and I am interested in one question for you concessionaries playing a very important role in primary health care whether it should be allowed so-called. teams without carriers to deal with HZZO deals, and we know they're short on doctors, and they can come up with risks like the ones in Zabok. In Zapresic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98539	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Squishy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98540	I thank my colleague Lovrinović, here's the primary health care service is certainly some sort of entrance to healthcare itself. As I said and in our debate, we have a great tradition in this area, and now, unfortunately, we are going towards it, in my opinion, public health honestly has no alternative, I mentioned at one point my debate that in some way in Western Europe was reviving that public health. We had recently and the European Health Forum 600 participants were there unfortunately Croatia had no representatives there at all, and we know well what we could actually do from our model, from the rest of the rest of the model we still have to offer. What you are, specifically what you asked me, I will say that of course I advocate that the patient must always be first. The patient must have the best possible service and the founder of the ministry are there to provide it and these are some things that need.../incomprehensible/... legislator through the law much better regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98541	The second line has Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98542	Thank you, Vice-President, my colleague Vesligaj, and in your debate you have also touched the provisions relating to the administrative council of health institutions, especially hospital institutions, so I would only point to one inconsistencies, perhaps in our laws, and let's say in particular to the members of the necessary professional training or education of members of the board. As we have heard in the previous debate with counterpart Juričev-Marinchev that they no longer need to have working experience in the field of health, I would point to the fact that in the area of social care according to the Social Care Act, members of the Board must also have work experience in the field of social care, so perhaps this law and this provision are going towards the fact that health or health is not so much It's important to this government. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98543	Here's your answer, Mr. Veligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98544	Well, here I certainly believe that in the boards of health care institutions we should have the most competent people and what I said in the debate this is not a good direction to go towards the county. You have also heard the position of the Croatian Community of counties which opposes the reduction of the number of members they appoint as founders in the administrative council, and I will say that according to the Law on Institutions, therefore they are still responsible for the business of the institution and are still necessary to cover possible losses that the institution will have. So it's about classical decentralisation in a Croatian way which is to transfer to someone's obligations but this financial means of course not. What you said, I'm sure this model that exists at the welfare facility should also be applied to health care, once again we need the most competent people. in the administrative councils of health institutions. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98545	And now he's at work, Mr. Zeljko Lackovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98546	I would like to thank the Vice President, the esteemed ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I want to set a few examples of this bill that I consider good, which I particularly consider good because it will lead to an increase in the standard of health care in the rural area of the Republic of Croatia. So, the fact that there will be equalising health workers, concessionaries and private practices in the offices through the ministry's decision, rather than through the fact that the county or mayor will call or not call a concession tender will, in a material sense, encourage all those doctors who want to work in the rural part of the Republic to stay there. And now another interesting solution, and these are the special duty that is being introduced, which, of course, will, when prescribed for both concessionaries and staff from the office, lead to these employees having to live, in fact, in the area where they work. We now have a situation, let's say that in smaller cities we don't have doctors who work there at all, but they're doctors who live in nearby cities who come just to do their shit. In particular, it is present in emergency medicine and then we have a situation where we do not have this TIM2 network of emergency assistance teams by the team network, and we do not have it covered by any additional payment by the founders or the county are exposed, so emergency teams during the weekend and in the afternoons when there is no working office with all those interventions where patients come to the hospital and regardless of what may not be an emergency, there is only, therefore, a team of emergency aid that is then burdened with their service. I would also like to see that this bill and a significant increase in the role of the county and the mayors, we believe that it is also necessary in the part of prevention, but also in the part of the emergency service organisation, and also in this palitarian part which is not sufficiently covered, especially in the rural part of the county when we already have it, to contribute significantly to their solutions because they know best the situation on the ground. What should also be said is that hospitals that have emergency hospitals like ours in Koprivnica and the town of Koprivnica have two teams of emergency medicine. Certainly, therefore, the schedule and mode of work of the coordinators that will arrange the county or functional integration as it is called here in the bill can provide better coverage of emergency medical protection in rural areas. He also wants to tell you that all those who invoke a higher and higher standard in the health system must be aware that these countries that mention have significantly higher excise duties and burdens on the cause of the major disease, which is primarily tobacco and alcohol and your initiatives in this direction are quite justified. I will say here that when we talk about the percentages of primary health care in total costs or such similar data, you need to know that the bottle of the most expensive whiskey in the Republic of Croatia which is somewhere in retail, so it costs a liter and a thousand kuna is only 18 kuna. So the excise on an alcoholic bottle of hot... You have 18 kn, per bottle of beer, it is one kuna, and we know the health consequences of alcohol consumption, so if we really want to compare with countries, see how much in these countries the price of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products is, and then we can say that we deserve a better health system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98547	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic. We have a replica. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lackovic, the engagement of local self-government units in solving the best teaming of primary healthcare teams is something to think about anyway. We have certain countries in Western Europe where specialists of internal medicine, where specialists of different specializations decide to work in primary health care because units of local self-government give them certain incentives, certain stimulations, whether it is a bigger salary, whether it is a housing issue, because the fact is again that in hospitals is much more stressful, much more and overtime hours and dutys, so let's say one example that will probably happen after some time in the Republic of Croatia that and specialists who worked within the hospital health system go into primary health care, so I'm also interested in your experience since you were mayor of Djurjevac. Do you have such experiences?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98549	I thank Mr. Cellic. The answer to my colleague, Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98550	I thank my colleague Cellic for encouraging through this issue. So, in the city of Djurđevac already plans to provide additional material conditions to attract, not only specialists' doctors, but all those doctors who will perform private health practice in the offices, including concessionaries to live in the area of the city. You can experience that in a town of 6 thousand people today you do not have practically two three doctors living in that city even though there are employees 10 or 20 in the home of health. I was taught your question at a conference where Mr. Asudaak, who deals with the health system, spoke about the efficiency of the private system on mobile primary health care where the doctor goes to the patient and about the experiences where productivity is three times greater than in this classic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98551	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sinisha Varga. Here's a colleague of Varg's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98552	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here is the class on my topic of debate in the area of the Health Protection Act that is before us. Here, I'd like to continue here with a few articles that I'm content with that should be well discussed. When it came to talking about it and everything we said about usurping management rights from county hospitals with this law entering management structures. Then it's said to have to, because you have to have direct control. Then we get to Article 106 where we talk about the level of rent, the leases in the premises of the home of health that are once again owned by these same counties, and there is suddenly given liberal full freedom in determining the prices of renting space for so-called. the tenants or future offices of today's concessionary. I must say here as former director of HZZO I must say that it will all return to HZZO director as a boomerang that our experiences that we had in particular in the Split-Dalmatia County when it comes to will and at the will of health directors and their Pandans in county structures then we come up with a basnoslovous figure which the finance minister is hitting on VAT and we come up with huge figures that simply have no one to pay from. And then you come to Margaretsk to ask for help in raising income and so it does inflation artificially in the system. And here I think if you found out accordingly that you usurp management rights in county hospitals you also have to have the strength and regulate the amount of rent or determine the maximum amount of rent that the county can charge for renting space in health homes. We further have article 113, paragraph 3, which speaks of the minister's defence finding out which hospital will be a military hospital. I think it's a huge area with an awful lot of questionnaires and the biggest sentence de facto in the whole of the law, I think that should be a little bit more detailed then what it comes from, then, what financial obligations of the Minister of Defence, how employee relations in the hospital itself are towards military personnel coming in, or military professionals who come in there to use that health care if they have an advantage over ordinary citizens who use that hospital, etc. And so on and so forth. This article is highly unspeakable and insufficiently defined. I would either suggest that you define it by further regulation or that it be the subject of a completely special law. In Article 194, we have paragraph 2 and paragraph 4 which have almost the same text that says what regular working hours are and what duty is. The text is almost identical to each other except for one word used in Article 4 by an extremely clumsy word that speaks of presence in the workplace. The presence at the workplace is, here is a colleague from the Faculty of Philosophy, sitting there next to me and we can talk about what it is and in the physical space without participation in any battle or anything else in the conduct of health activities in a health institution and then further definition is exactly the same as in regular working hours. So there's a nightmare in the definition, I think it should be much better defined. Finally, when we talk about the issue and regular working hours, it has repeatedly been praised that this law will address the issue of medical attention in primary health care. There's a working time rule that would give it a much more elegant way to get rid of it. However, if you go legally redefine what is a duty in primary health care I will mention here that the law defines that regular working time is the 40th hour working hours. If this law says you have to go past 40 hours, you have to do more than 40 hours of working time in primary health care, then dear gentlemen, then we suggest that you do so in the entire health care system because we've been listening to it today, I won't say moaning but also the complaints of the medical profession to do an extremely large number of overtime hours and it won't actually be regulated by this law, but you say it will be regulated for the primary. Therefore, there is some discretion in attitudes. Finally, I would once again point out the question of Article 58(2) where, instead of calling on the Law on Mandatory Relations, the determination of prices between a private doctor and a private insurance company that the insurance company will be said to be in this business relationship. I believe that this is something that we usurp the Law on Mandatory Relations and general pricing policy between two equal business entities. There is excessive emphasis on private insurance and puts a doctor in an absolutely unequal position to negotiate his services with potential clients. Here's so much from me in this debate and I hope more colleagues have something to say about any replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98553	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. We have one replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98554	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Varga, you've been Minister of Health and know the situation well. At the beginning of this presentation, you said what I fully agree with is that now liberalising the price of leases for concessionaries in health homes is a possible instrument of discipline or exclusion of those who disagree with the director of home health, etc. What situations and cases we have from Split-Dalmatia County and beyond. On the other hand, we know that the county organizes the work of health homes in the authority not cities and municipalities and that the money is in Zagreb. So as I ask you to bring it, to arrange, is it not quite clear that on the leash you want to manage everyone from Zagreb, it is one false fictitious decentralisation. We have suggested that people who rent space in the House of Health be taken one kuna, symbolically available to all public health care because they are not the current directors of the House of Health, we are all owners. That's the catch.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98555	Thank you, thank you, dear colleague Lovrinovic. My colleague Varga's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98556	Here I am thanking you, here is the particular thing, so far it's been arranged with the question of concession fee of 1250 kuna and the amount of rent that shouldn't have been higher than 1250 kuna. So, here they are, we arranged it with one Regulation to say if the rent is bigger then the concession fee is smaller because it's the same cashier and the same county register. Here we now know that this law abolishes concession offices, the concept of concession is abolished, private practice in the form of an office is restored, and now it will be all at will and the will of local powerful men who will determine their own inference to the amount of rent. It is absolutely not regulated by any regulations, absolutely given everything at will, the doctor with blue eyes will have more rent than the one with brown eyes and it is a cowboy's that cannot be allowed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98557	I thank my colleague Varg for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98558	I thank the esteemed Vice President, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I do not think there are any people here in the Assembly or in Croatia in general that this topic has not already been touched in any way, the health care system has not met, even at the most basic level for those most fortunate. I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't want quality, accessible efficient, effective, or health care. I think that's clear to everyone. No matter what government there is, what systems we've been, how many years we've been struggling with this problem it's a Lightmotive to everyone and I think we all agree absolutely there. Now, of course, the question of how to come, in which way, tried various things over the years, more funding, less funding, we in that government were reducing contributions to health care, so we brought them back, so absolutely everything that was possible because I think they were always trying in good faith, at least that's how I want to believe. What's important is that we try wherever we can to influence at least the one, so if I'm going to say it at the administrative level, we're talking about working time for a health care worker who determines the working time of private healthcare professionals in service this in-net actually public health service. I said it right in the replica. We have a situation where you clearly need to say, if it says on the door I think I'll only do one parallel with private entrepreneurs who will get dragon sentences if they put the hours of trade, anyone and then don't do it or do it out of business. It's not God's. We have a situation as a rule, the infirmary works from eight to three, God forbid you come in at 12 o'clock or 1 o'clock to hand over the book, first no one on the counter will take you in, and we don't take the word "book" anymore. In one hour or two, of course honoring exceptions will be no one. Now do these doctors need time to rest, they need time for some consular examinations, specialist, absolutely anything they can accept, but then write that it works from 8 to 12. So it's not some special law, money or whatever. Just a little organization because I'm not saying that doctors are guilty, I absolutely have nothing to do with it, if it's working, just write it down when it's done. Some people can't come in at 7 a.m. to hand over a book or card now, of course, it's long gone and wait 3.4 hours, some of them might make it possible and some hospitals are doing it, and there's a colleague, Kopić, and I really need to commend his efforts to our Clinical Hospital Center in Osijek and in the afternoon, and you know me is the biggest farce with those orders, which you have to order, great, when? 11 o'clock, when do you get your turn? at 2. I don't understand who's crazy. And then we say long waiting lists. This isn't concrete right now, it may not have anything to do with this law, but we're saying that a lot of things that our citizens are suffering, not now that I'm saying something from my own experience something that people are showing up to me, suffering things that I don't think are as much money as just some good will and better organization, but I need to talk about them. When we talk about strengthening the prevention of healthcare here in Article 30(1), we are talking about increasing the health condition itself in general when we talk about prevention I had one initiative and I hope that this will be harmonised under another law, it is related to the use of drugs and intoxicating substances. Unfortunately, there have been even serious cases of hospitalisation in Osijek, and I hope that this and the proposal will also see an implementation measure to enable the preventive alarming of new substances used so-called. Air fresheners and that they will be able to report to the competent services that they can be questioned in time, shut down these shops and check these contents because all the time when something new is out, some new substances are introduced and thus go around the law. They say effective human potential management? Yeah. The minister also said that in the opening statement. Of course you should always reward those who give more, have better results, there you should first of all colleague Varga had spoken something earlier, rely on objective indicators I know always subjective to how it goes, who likes it, who has come, who loves whom more or less so you can get some benefits so some benefits should make it aware of the minimum and should introduce what has now started through some small door at the universities grading the users themselves that makes it all work. They're going to evaluate the service they got, the doctor, the nurse, so we're going to change that way a little bit because we need to know that this whole system is because of them and it's not doing someone to earn a salary or to have a cartoon and to wait for something to move on. And then maybe that part that, but believe it, that human part, the humanity that didn't have time doesn't matter that both that warm word and the way and everything, if someone's waiting for two or three hours something doesn't know something, but when someone's talking to him with a dose of humanity, even if it's because he's afraid that someone wouldn't misjudge him or give a bad recommendation, so let's make it a reason, if it's not already the basic humanity, because these people, health workers, I understand in absolute terms, it's hard. It's hard to stay normal after so much as 1, 2, 3, 5, so you get 158 no longer have the nerve to do anything and you have to work and you want to help, and you need to watch it on that side. But they're not all the same again, they're not the same two brothers, so they can't be two technicians, two nurses or two doctors, Doctors can't be the same. And here we should reward those who give, who take a step further, who are particularly informed, who especially want to, who are especially working. Because we have a lot of examples, which I personally, what I heard, where you can't believe, where mistakes are made and no one answers, but some people out of ignorance don't even know they could have gone better, don't God forbid someone dies, etc. And mistakes are an integral part of every job, unfortunately, here are mistakes, fatal, fatal, and there it all hurts right away. But we can't even close our eyes on them, either. We just need to bring them down to as much minimum as possible. Health tourism, I said something yesterday in the Household Act, where there is also an expansion of opportunities for tourist purposes and private healthcare professionals etc. So absolutely to recognize it as one of the branches, which can be quite lucrative, especially when talking about some cantonal tourism, spas, spas, etc. To meet, because I say once again and what I started, health care in that basic, of course it's the noblest and perhaps even the profession, to help another man it's truly commendable and we must never let that humanity... and lose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we all had, I'm sure and all the citizens had examples of how in health care to meet people who might be losing it somewhere along the way. This system, this system needs to be rewarded for that care, which gives an additional incentive, i.e.,... The face of thousands and thousands of good ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because there's nothing more beautiful about a moment when someone really needs to give you a warm word and be conscious and responsible and, of course, make the result of what they've been paid for. And that, when we look at that management of human potential, it's not just about health, it's about the general government, where there are those who work, but they feel silly, people feel like they're fools, where they work fair, the fourth makes and gets the same pay as that drone. And then what happens? When something needs to be done, who will the superior give the job to? And yet again to this same worker, because he is so good, and what he can expect from him, he will give, he can rely on him, but the unemployed will not, for he will not get this. And everyone has equal pay and what he's looking at, who's a fool here, who's crazy. How do you meet after a year, two days, three, seven, eight times? Half of them give up, so neither am I, saying stupid to work and kill myself for something nobody appreciates. So I say, basically when you give people an opportunity not to punish, reward, reward, profession, quality, approach and that's what they certainly need, not by this law, but generally, but by this more, especially in the system of state administration. And I believe that when we look at things in general, that everything can always be better, but it's important that every time we change something that always goes something, that we've made this one step at a time, one law, one wheel, one stone in the system when we do it all, that mosaic that's going to be through which Mr. really better it's our job to all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98559	Thank you, dear colleague Curai, for this debate. Replica's esteemed colleague, Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98560	Thank you. You mentioned one thing about featbeak, or feedback from the patients themselves, about how satisfied they are with the system. We went towards getting individual from each patient, for every episode of treatment to get feedback, however, we still technologically failed to do and unfortunately, these projects stopped, but what we did, that within the quality management system in HZZO we were obliged to copy 9001 have a continuous survey of our users. And we managed to do that, then they were quite interesting assessments of the anecdicated for satisfaction with the health system and what they were absolutely most fortunate with, were most satisfied with the doctors of family medicine and with the nurse. And that's something they are, patients like that are satisfied with that segment of the health system. What they are extremely dissatisfied with, are hospital systems regarding waiting lists and waiting lists... The system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98561	Thank you, colleague Varga, for the answer of my colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98562	Thank you. Well, yes, I'm saying I've already made a proposal that I'm just hoping is going to use the technology here for a purpose, the proposal is to literally create a model, over these various networks that we have available free of charge, that if we're talking about air fresheners, specifically paint and send it somewhere, to the center, someone publish it, and get a location, so we might as well develop a system, when you come in here for a review, wait, fill out your data, give some contact, and then automatically send you a system after you've finished when someone answers that you've done a mini poll, whether you've been satisfied, like now I don't want to advertise, but when you book certain and hotels and accommodations over some applications, after you've finished, they always send you a quick, clear poll through the email in which way you've been satisfied and how you evaluate it. And the vast majority of people react, maybe in some future to go to it, I think it would actually be one of the ways to operate it, and all of course with the goal of improving the service and thus rewarding those who do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98563	I thank my colleague Curaj for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98564	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with fellow colleagues and colleagues. At the end of all these debates today, I will reiterate in my individual debate that this is a fundamental law on the health care system, which will certainly make its new provisions better rationalised and more effective treatment in our institutions. I support the ministry's efforts to arrange a system of duty in primary health care and in all activities because it has been one of the key problems in ensuring quality health care for our patients in both urban and rural areas where this problem has been even more pronounced. This approach will certainly ensure more accessible and more uniform health care for all citizens and will also relieve the hospital service that during holidays, weekends and evenings above the average burden on the number of patients who come daily. So far, these patients have had a problem with us following the examination and care carried out in our institutions, not having the possibility of getting prescribed therapy from their doctor in pharmacyes, which, by such a procedure, will certainly correct this and allow our patients to get what is prescribed and everything for the purpose of healing our patients. Of course, as well as an important question and a determination of concessions in the homes of health, who will receive these concessions and who will not. We are witnessing that in the past years it has been a reality and unfortunately practice that at that crucial moment the decision has always been made to the directors of our health homes, as well as to the mayors of our counties, which has sometimes had bad choices and put all those participants in all these competitions sometimes in unequal positions. With this legislative proposal, I think that this will, however, be corrected and that this process will be more transparent because the representative body of these regional administrations, which is composed of far from more people, will be more difficult to isolate, will be more difficult to acquire in some other way and will help all those in this system to compete to be more equal in the choice itself. This also gives support to greater democratisation of the process at the level of the regional administration, which is the tendency of all developed democracies. Health care homes as a pillar of health care in our system of this legal framework are given even more importance, allowing it to expand its health activities from paliative care to specialist healthcare. This, of course, creates a new opportunity to further improve the financial base of these institutions and, looking from a demographic aspect, in terms of preventing our doctors from leaving Croatia, it will certainly be one of the elements of additional earnings and removing thinking to go to those who were one of the main motives to leave our country. With this view, I would also look back at the possibilities for this law to finally resolve the possibility of additional remuneration of our employees who are above average worth, who are above average earning money for the institution they work in. That's what you, Mr. Minister, were also talking about. And finally, we will have to admit to ourselves that not all of them are the same in this income system, and that so far the books are essentially the relics of some of the former systems for which it is high time to forget, of course, if we want this reduction of our waiting lists and ultimately the fiscal stability of our health institutions. I welcome such a decision, which will finally be put into the drawer by the government regulation and this problem so far. As for the problem in primary health care where we have so far had the inability to employ employees of the same profession in the offices, that is what my colleague Celić was talking about, I see that this law also resolved to the satisfaction of all participants in the system both employers and new employees because let us bear in mind that further employment in the health system will also be possible. Finally, it is directly related to the users of health services, or our patients, because this will make them more flow in the offices or less waiting for patients, which is what we regularly listen to in public communication and social media today. What is even more important to highlight and what is passed by this law is that the foundation of the government's conclusion of August 2nd reduces the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and legal entities in the way the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Emergency Medicine Office takes over the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Institute. I welcome this way of thinking, of course it goes in terms of reduced administration and, as you said, the reduction of both financial separations as small as it seems to some and certainly needs to take small steps to do some other work. Finally, I want to conclude that we must be aware that the existing health problems are a product of long-term insufficient care for the system and that the new steps in the health segment that this law will allow are certainly something that will improve the treatment of all of us who look forward to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98565	Thank you, colleague Kopic. Replica, dear colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98566	Thank you. Here you are colleague Kopić, mentioning the merger of certain institutions in the health system and your hospital is one of those 12 hospitals that came together as I recall, with Nasice Hospital. So here, from your experience as a representative of the KBC administration, what are the benefits and what is good for our patients in that integration?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98567	Thank you, colleague Kopic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98568	Comrade Josic, thank you for asking. Of course, they had this experience that I said I'd personally welcome. With the functional merger of the KBC of Osijek and the hospital in Nasice, we have, of course, made it possible for us to work means to centralize certain specialist treatments with us, we have reduced the number of beds in terms of some stationers in the Nasice hospital. Of course, we have thus strengthened us as an institution, made it possible for patients in the right place to be treated in a quality way in people who are exclusively daily dealing with such highly differentiated therapy or diagnostics but here, I say, we are also working within their institution to rationalise in terms of the merger of individual institutions because by reducing the administration will certainly increase the effectiveness of the meaning of all the formation units and still be at the service of all our patients who come to us daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98569	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kopic. On behalf of the promoter, the final word, Honored Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98570	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for the debate, and I especially thank you for all the amendments you have submitted, and I promise that all your amendments will be carefully analysed, considered and wherever we recognize that this is useful, I will propose on behalf of the Government that it be adopted, and in the final word, allow me only a few observations among which it is one that in the last 2 years in the Croatian health system there has been an increase in the number of total doctors, an increased number of specialists and, above all, increased number of specialists, so we encourage health institutions to discuss specializations, because we may have planned better in the years behind us now, which we would not have had a crisis in certain segments, particularly, and anaesthesia, but I believe for some 5 to 7 years that this crisis will be behind us. Here someone has critically properly referred to the agency, the independence of the accreditation agency, the accreditation agency, and why it is now conditionally said to join the ministry. We have actually respected the following facts here, which is that the agency has existed for some 10 years, unfortunately, that it has not given more serious results so far, and that in the time ahead, there will probably be accreditation and that Croatia will, in a few years ahead of us, primarily focus on cooperation with international agencies, because only these accreditations will give you at first weight and meaning to those citizens who will either come from health tourism or from another form to Croatia, so that Croatia will certainly develop in this sense, and this is now one rationalisation and cost reduction. As for the discussion about renting or renting space in health care homes, the fear that's expressed here really shouldn't be. We were led by the following, and that somewhere in Kostanica, literally if you give for 1 lip you will find it difficult to get a doctor if you have a room symbolically speaking at Ban Jelačić Square in Zagreb or on a waterfront in Split, it will certainly give you a significant amount of money to work in those areas, however, it will not be at the will of the director that it will determine that it will be 100 kuna, or I do not know how many kunas per square metre, but it will actually be at the highest level of county or cityal, and that means at the assembly of city or county where it is then reduced space, and logic has been in fact and in some way to stimulate people to go into less attractive areas where they will get conditionally spoken for 1 lip space and on the other side of the areas that will be more paid so that they can be listed here in Vrgorac that it is unregulated in the home, or somewhere I think it will give a positive result. The same was the observation of military hospitals, the military hospital in the law is predicted only that we will never need this emergency situation, these are security threats, the war translated only in these cases can be declared as an exceptional state of war hospital as a temporary solution, and I am sorry that there is no representative Lovrinovic, in fact I have little to regret here because I usually like to look people in the eyes when I speak, and it is surprising that a top economist and professor at the Faculty of Economics says that there is enough money in Croatian health, all the other observations that the professor has given where the money can be better managed absolutely, but I would like to explain it to his colleagues from Germany, America, Japan why they spend 5-7 thousand euros per capita, and the Croatians are too much and 700 euros. So, unfortunately, we don't have any money regardless of the percentage we're giving, but the per capito amount is such that always finance will be a problem, and where luck if we had more money, then we could even better secure health care. Finally, thanks again to everyone and the promise that indeed all the proposed amendments will be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98571	Thank you, dear Minister Kujundzic, we have several replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98572	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President, Your Honor, so here you are in your opening statement and here you are finally, colleagues have discussed those provisions concerning mergers or erasures from the register of certain institutions and annexes to other institutions. However, as this is a purely political decision, you have nevertheless tried to explain that it is one rationalisation and one administrative, administrative savings, on the other hand, you have given some further explanations in terms of increasing the quality of work of other institutions themselves, I am still wondering if you could explain and tell us what savings it is, because I suppose there will be no job savings, or that there will be no job cancellations. So I'm curious about what kind of savings it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98573	I thank my dear colleague, Minister Kujundzic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98574	Dear representatives thank you for asking, it is about the following savings, the savings that are on administration, the savings that are now on administration, the directors of the savings that are on administration, the savings that are now on administration, the directors, and the deputy directors, and the savings relating to the Administrative Council, and the savings that apply to the areas that are now paid at very high prices, the leases are paid, and in no case are not savings at the level of quality, professions and experts working in these offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98575	I thank the respected Minister Kujundzic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98576	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Kujundzic, I have no doubt in Croatia that we have quality doctors, but you have received the Ministry to organise. The thing is the biggest, otherwise, how do you make the organization profitable, how do you make everything okay? The second question, what did the former ministers who came before you, who should have moved some things to get some results. Of course, waiting lists and everything else would be less, and what my colleague also said, if there was money, I know it's gone, I'm sure I'm convinced there isn't enough, that the organization would do better, because without money, it's hard to organize. I still think you're doing a good job and you're going a good way, and those attacks on you that were the other night, and for the shift, I don't think they make any sense, but you took one Ministry, which in my opinion is the most difficult in the Croatian state, that's health care, I think, here are the colleagues who run the hospitals and from their conversations I saw it going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98577	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98578	We are now going to: - Final proposal of the Health Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 379. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate has been concluded, amendments have been submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Ivan Lovirović, representative Miranda Mrsic, Club of Representatives of the HSS, representative Željko Jovanovic Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of the SDP Club and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I now ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health. Let's take it in a row. The first is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98579	Dear MPs and MPs, Your Honor, Mr. President, I welcome you all. The first amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted in the light of the need to respect available resources when drawing up a health care plan for the Republic of Croatia, which is, inter alia, in accordance with the sustainability principle and the established law on the strategic planning and development management system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98580	An obvious, respected colleague of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98581	.../Conversation off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98582	We'll vote tomorrow. We're now going to the second amendment of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98583	Amendments shall not be accepted on the grounds that the provision of Article 10(1), subparagraph 15, provides for conditions for the education of healthcare professionals by the Republic of Croatia in respect of the applicable law. For the same reason, an amendment to the act relating to Article 10(2) of the final draft law shall not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98584	Dear colleague of the Sagittarius, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98585	We asked for an item to be added in Article 10 which says that the conditions for education of health workers and professional training are also necessary. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia should also provide funding to ensure the conditions for the education of healthcare professionals and professional training, as requested and to add investment and investment in human potential in Article 10(2) behind the words of investment and investment in human potentials in Article 10(2). Therefore, if the aim is to achieve impact on the health system, investment in human potential is necessary in order to achieve a better quality health care system through this legal solution and legal obligations of regional and regional units in ensuring health care in their area under Articles 19, 19a and 20 of the Law on local and regional regional self-government. Since investment in equipment has no effect if there is no healthcare provider, we believe that people should be a priority in investments. If we can point out what national health policy at least has done, it is a concern for health resources. It is completely inexplicable to deal with the fates of tens of thousands of healthcare professionals because it is the most diverse resource in health care. Get the machines in a few months, build buildings, but these human resources problems have been piling up for decades and we still don't have a solution for them. I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98586	You got it. We are going to the third amendment of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98587	The amendment is not accepted as Article 11(5) is subject to the provision of health care funds above the standards laid down by compulsory health insurance, and therefore does not impose an obligation on the regional self-government unit to provide funds for that health care, but can do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98588	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98589	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I think it would be very important that you accept this amendment after all. Why? Because our citizens do not know who are listening to us now, health care is very important to us all, it is one of the fundamental rights towards the Constitution and the obligation of this country to organise life in Croatia and provide adequate health care. Namely, in the current law, in the proposal you made, which you insist on, it says it can provide funds. We propose that it must provide funds and local self-government, but it is little known to our public that there are about 330 offices of family medicine in small towns in Croatia, and there are not enough patients in these small places. Since the revenues of the office are agreed, i.e. that the business and contract is concluded in accordance with the principal's, or the number of patients, it is clear that these 330 offices do not have enough income, there is little income. When they settle all the costs they need because they need to be a nurse, a director, and the rest, they're left with 2,3,000 kunas. Please, how will a family medicine doctor live at 330 places in Croatia of 2, 3000 kn? Please, I urge you, take care of this because it threatens to lose 330 offices that cannot be financed, and in this case we suggest that the difference between HZZO funds must be paid by the local community. Therefore, do not put the local community in a fictitious role in health care, but let’s make sure that it has to cover that difference to keep doctors in rural areas, in poorly populated areas because this is a matter of health care and national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98590	We're going to Amendment 3 of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98591	The amendment is not accepted because Article 2 of Article 26 does not regulate the free choice of medical doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98592	Dear colleague of the Sagittarius, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98593	So we asked for Article 26 to change paragraph 2 and to read: the free choice of a doctor of secondary and tertiary health care as part of standard health care services and a doctor of dental medicine primary health care. Therefore, the free choice of a doctor is fundamentally the right of a patient, except for a primary health care doctor and one who follows him as a specialist in secondary and tertiary. Anyone who knows his job well as a specialist knows how important it is to monitor a patient since the first time you enter a specialist's office or to look at him at an emergency reception and later when it comes to additional processing, so that you eventually try to solve or at least follow the patient for sometimes and years. For patients, it is devastating and extremely difficult when every time they come to a polyclinic or for a checkup, they see another specialist inside, someone they first see and start over they have to talk about, talk about their symptoms, their treatments, everything that's happened in the last maybe 10 minutes, and for that given the situation and the weather-cadrovic norms that this government still hasn't even started to bring, so there's no time, you have a few minutes just, 10 minutes as a specialist. So it's very important that a patient can still organize it if possible, in every hospital, choose their own specialist who will be treated because it needs his right. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98594	We're going to Amendment number five of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98595	The amendment is not accepted as Article 28 is regulated as a public service and private practice is only one organisational form of performing health activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98596	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98597	MOST has requested that here, except for means of health care, is an activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia as a public service, add and private practice, meaning as a public service and private practice which, according to professional medical doctrine and with the use of medical technology, is carried out by healthcare professionals in the provision of health care and under the terms and conditions of the prescribed law. Therefore, that provision is proposed because 9% of doctors providing health care for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are in the capacity of private persons and the existing legal solution would be virtually excluded by the expression of public service and by such a proposal for a provision. So we have doctors working in private practice and they should be listed as well as the public service and we think that this is how this article was to be solved. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98598	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number six, the re-emergency club of the representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98599	The amendment is not accepted because the Health Activity Act, NN No. 87/09 as a basic law governing, content, manner and action and the conditions for the performance of certain activities in health care in the definition of the activities of sanitary engineers does not allow the exercise of that activity at all levels of health care as it does in other activities of the regulatory listed laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98600	Re-experience, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98601	So we asked, Article 32, and priced a series of articles in fact that finally defined the position of sanitary engineers in the Republic of Croatia, so we said as we stated in Article 32 that the item was changed and that it reads: Exceptionally from Article 30(2) of subparagraphs 9, 11, 15 and 19 of this law, the activities meant medicine work, medicine work and sports, logos, physical therapy and sanitary engineering and palitative care can be carried out at secondary level. It is therefore appropriate to amend the provisions of Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The laws on health activities, the activities of sanitary engineering shall include the work and tasks of studies of energy, food, mineral and vitamin values of meals for different age groups, the implementation and supervision of the hygiene and technical protection measures that activities are regularly carried out in hospitals within the hospital’s department to prevent hospital infections and central sterilisation and rehabilitation, as well as the department for diet and nutrition. Sanitary engineers are the basis of the apriori law in question defined as health workers and should, in the framework of their basic education, do the work of these departments and of the same activities and at secondary level and take precedence over all other professions primarily those who are not health workers' professions. In fact, it is important to start from the basic settings, which means sanitary activity or the activities of sanitary engineers as health workers. Sanitary activity involves the activities of health care, public health protection, health protection at work, protection of the environment in terms of the protection of human health protection and prevention of human health in their living and working environment, and I therefore request a vote on this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98602	Okay. We are going to Amendment 7 of MPs Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98603	The amendment is not accepted because in the final draft of the law, Article 37(3) does not contain a word because erasure is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98604	Since there are no colleagues, Jovanovic will vote on it tomorrow. We're going to Amendment 8 of the House of Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98605	The amendment is not accepted because, in itself, the standard for areas where significant deviations exist in the number of insurance undertakings is governed by the general HZZO acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98606	Here you go, colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98607	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, we regret that you do not accept this amendment because we have invested it in Article 44, which defines the criteria for determining the network of public health services and takes care of the health status of people, the number of people, the social structure, is the key to ensuring equal conditions, available health care for all. This way as prescribed by law will not happen because we have a small number of inhabitants in demographically impoverished areas and we have arranged hospitals and we have no doctors. In Croatia there are already 56 teams without team holders, without family medicine doctors, in Brod-Posavina County it is already 6 such teams. It is simply not possible for a patient in Vrbje, Stari Gradiška or Cernik not every day to have a doctor but waits for next Tuesday or next Thursday, does not know whether the doctor will come, who will come, there is no real primary family medicine. We therefore suggested that this article should include clauses that are enough 700 contracted persons in order for the doctor to have the full amount paid by HZZO and thus stimulate doctors to stay alive and work in these rural areas and on the other hand in health homes to enable financial stability. It's a safe way to keep the doctors. We can't go all the way to local self-government units, to stimulate doctors, professors, veterinarians, simple units of local self-government don't have enough resources to stimulate all these missing officials, and plus, our obligation is to provide health care to every patient equally accessible and in rural areas, mostly family medicine doctors grouping in cities and there's no problem, but the problem in rural demographically depressed areas, let's make one step to stimulate doctors to work in this area, and on the other hand we allow patients to have a permanent doctor who will know their genesis and thus make it easier for them to determine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98608	We are going to amendment number nine of MPs by Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98609	The amendment is not accepted. It is prescribed in the Law on Health Activities that medical laboratory diagnostics experts carry out their activities on a team whose holder is an appropriate specialist in medicine or medical biochemistry, i.e. persons with completed graduate university study of medical biochemistry at all levels of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98610	Since there is no representative, we will vote on that amendment tomorrow. 10th Amendment of Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98611	The amendment is not accepted because the issue of teaching for private healthcare professionals who have concluded a contract with the HDZ is resolved by the provision of Article 126(2) of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98612	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98613	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that as on the current tape you reject a lot of good amendments that go in favour of our health care, I said that the party should change Croatia and its strong team of health professionals, university professors and doctors, 17 amendments we suggested, as things stand I have a feeling you'll reject everything. But it is important that he hears the public, the citizens, to whom the existing government cares, and nothing seems to pass and that everything goes who is with us only his can do something about it. If you're not with us, you're against us. But to answer what you said, offices are places where you can get professional education from the field of health activities that? General medicine, dental health care, health care of preschool children, sports medicine, medical work etc. And there are parts of the specialist... Activities, therefore, because this kind of activity is taking place, we think it would be good for specialists to be young, to have a part of their specialization carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, isn't that one curical reform raised to a higher level? So do we want to turn down specialists, so instead of sending them to the offices, and we know that the offices are missing them, and you see how many people are missing, we have a lot of teams without carriers, that our viewers know what the exhibitor teams are, so there are no doctors, you have a driver's sister, you don't have a doctor. So my people, are you aware that we are at risk from all sides, except external borders, financial instability, we are at risk of health. Come on, please, these are common problems, let's raise awareness and work on it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98614	We're going to Amendment number 11 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98615	The amendment is not accepted because the issue of the work of a health care professional in private practice teaching in higher schools is resolved by the provision of Article 126(2) of the final draft law. This provision provides for the possibility for teachers and persons in co-operational calls of private healthcare professionals who have contracted with HZZO to enter into a business cooperation agreement with a high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98616	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98617	You say one thing, and we say this, so I explain the amendment to Article 57(1) point 7. So so far, this status of two jobs has been solved so-called. It's a cumulative piece of work. So part-time was done in the office, and the other half at the department, meaning as a scientific educational institution. This is only allowed in the offices of health homes and you can see hospital doctors, but not concessionaries, i.e. now with offices. It is about discrimination and violation of the rights of these doctors and it is a violation of the Constitution, so it is really about discrimination, in the current pension system it cannot be technically reported as a person working in 2 jobs. So let us allow those people who are only in educational, scientific educational institutions that they can work cumulatively and get rid of it in the pension register. That would be good in our opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98618	Amendment number 12 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98619	The amendment is not accepted as the provision of Article 46(3) of the final draft law provides that the provisions of this law relating to the offices are to be applied accordingly, inter alia, and to the private practices of sanitary engineers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98620	It's obvious, Mr. Sagittarius, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98621	So we felt that this article should nevertheless be changed in terms of adding that it means Dr. medicine and Dr. dental medicine perform private practice in the offices, masters of pharmacies in pharmacies, masters of medical biochemistry in medical and biochemical laboratories, and masters of sanitary engineering and graduate sanitary engineer is in private practice from the activities of sanitary engineering. Why? In health care health care professionals work in cooperation with other healthcare professionals on highly differentiated jobs of modern medicine and health sciences, protecting public health through the living working environment. Sanitary activity shall include any form of work and actions to promote health and general well-being, prevention, disease prevention and injury through the identification and evaluation of the source of danger to human health and the environment as well as systematic work to limit exposure to physical, chemical and biological agents in air, water, soil, food and other environmental media or adverse conditions that may adversely affect human health. It is therefore also necessary to institutionalise, but also to lay down standards for the implementation of these activities as part of the profession of sanitary engineers at the same levels of health care as I suggested. Therefore, in order to comply with Article 46 of the proposal for this law, which has prescribed the possibility of establishing private practice for sanitary engineers, it is also necessary to define the way and forms of carrying out private practice of sanitary engineers, so the seventh level of education. I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98622	13th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98623	The 13th Amendment is not accepted, and the argument is the same as in Amendment 9 why it is not accepted, so much more so as the Constitutional Court has expressed its opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98624	We'll vote tomorrow. Amendment number 14. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98625	In the case of a Member The final draft of the law is governed by the private practice of healthcare professionals, first-rate workers and health workers, who have acquired the qualification of completion of secondary education. The provisions of this Article shall apply. In particular, private practices of sanitary technicians and professional first-graders, sanitary engineering are not listed, as the provisions of the health care law governing the activities of sanitary engineering are laid down in Article. 1st paragraph 2 that the provisions of that law, relating to sanitary engineers, apply accordingly also to sanitary technicians, professional first-rate sanitary engineering and university first-graders of sanitary engineering.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98626	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98627	We have requested and added this amendment in order to define this, however, that the health work, the master’s of the sisterhood, the first-grader and the health worker of the mid-skiller can carry out private practice from their professional training and that means nurses, receiving, physical therapists and dental technicians and working therapists and sanitary engineers, sanitary technicians. I believe that this sentence should be written in writing, this article should be aligned with the article. The 46th proposal of this law and Art. 19th Laws on Health Activities, which enabled all health care professionals of the sanitary profession to perform private scratches, health workers, sanitary professions during four years of vocational, secondary education 8 semesters during which they achieve a minimum of 254 ECB or CROO points. During secondary education of vocational education, intensive research is carried out in the field of biomedicine, health care, field of public health and health care as well as health care, public health protection, health protection and environmental protection in terms of the preservation and prevention of human health in their life and poor environment. Health professionals of the sanitary profession during a three-year pre-graduate study complete six semesters during which they achieve a minimum of 180 ECTS and also conduct a high-quality structured education during their studies. Practical experiences are gained largely in health and non-health institutions. We feel that it is certainly necessary for them to be included here too so that they can perform a health care worker and a master’s degree nurse’s medical professional training, they can perform private practice from their professional training, all of which are listed with sanitary engineers and sanitary technicians. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98628	Representative Ivan Lovrinović, 15 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98629	The amendment is not accepted. But it is a matter of continuity to provide health care, to stop the work of a private health care professional, in the office of a resolved member. 103rd final bill. The home of health with the decision of the founder is obliged to ensure that there are up to 25% of offices with each activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98630	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98631	Okay, thank you. You can see when in a health care office or whether it's a home doctor or a concessionary, or a future lease office, when a doctor has been working there for 10, 15, 20 years, he's created a certain image, his patients have an idea of what kind of doctor he is as a man, so they get used to him. It is very important that this office continues to work in quality, that it has a quality doctor who will inherit what this previous good has left. However, in this law, if it remains like this, to local administration, self-government, you give the opportunity to speculate, that it determines who will come. See, that's where the panda's box opens, that old Croatian problem, that then the local powers, on the basis of only them acceptable criteria, can determine who will continue the continuity and these offices. We wanted this amendment to prevent the negotiation of teams without carriers and to protect the right of patients, to prevent manipulation due to legal gaps, since it clearly defines the continuation of work in private practice offices after the termination of the work of their holders. While the present proposal contains legal gaps in this regard, which has so far had a negative impact on the continuity of the provision of health care, which was the most damaged patients who paid solidarity contributions to health insurance, who had not been equally available and legally covered, as they also agreed health homes without doctors as carriers and without the signature of patients contrary to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and subject to large penalties across EU tariffs and our aim is to comply with European practice. So please accept good arguments and do not refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98632	Amendment No. 16 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98633	The amendment is not accepted as the request for the consent of the representative body of units and regional self-government, when changing the scope of the activity in the office, meets the principle of transparency and availability of health protection in accordance with the tasks of the units of the regional self-government set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98634	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98635	Here you can see and here I recognize the handwriting, most likely Milan Bandic. You see, when you leave such gaps in the law, and you can't do that, you can't demand the consent of a representative body, and that's local administration, self-government. I repeat, it's the local sheriffs, they're Mr. Minister, thinking like you. You're one minister, there are hundreds of them. You can imagine what these criteria will be, theirs when they decide something. So, we consider from the party to change Croatia, and I say on these proposals for the big no amendment. A doctor, an expert, a university professor, did what I'm saying, that's the result of their advice, their practical experience. So, we believe, the party We change Croatia, that it must not require the consent of the representative body to change space, because signing patients for the free choice of the selected doctor is a condition for agreeing with HZZO. And standards and normative space are governed by the rules of the ministry. It is therefore sufficient to approve you, Minister of Health, as this will avoid problems in relation to local self-government, doctor, ministry. There's too much here. So, take over, let it be as it is so far, let the ministry determine. But I can't get the impression that someone here was deliberately creating space to maybe see you trade again and with doctors because you see one man is here, greatly increasing the number of his members, his club precisely based on that trade, clientalism. So let's stop doing that in Croatia, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98636	Amendment No. 17th Representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98637	Amendment 17 is not accepted and the argument is as follows Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98638	Thank you. Amendment No. 18. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98639	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98640	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 19th Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98641	The amendment is not accepted because the specific standard for areas where there are significant deviations in the number of insurance companies is governed by the general acts of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98642	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98643	I have already pointed out that there are about 330 offices of family medicine in Croatia, or those who can't handle one of these situations. Why? Because their incomes are generally determined according to the number of patients. We see that there is an increasing eviction of people from Croatia. Thus, the growing number of offices has fewer and fewer patients. On this basis, we understand that their incomes are shrinking. Therefore, offices are increasingly and more in the situation that they cannot cover the costs of financing, i.e. operations because they must cover the costs of nurses, directors, maintenance, etc., etc. In that sense, we suggest that the part that is not enough not to be able, which is not enough from the HZZ because I say they are small, is reduced by the amount of income from HZZ due to the reduced number of patients to settle the difference local community. You can't say there's no money in health care. Why? The total amount to be paid for ordinary medicines, let's say, especially expensive medicines is about 5.5 billion kuna. If we're not looking at anything and we're not investigating the amount of money paid for the total drugs, it could be 10% smaller if we don't do anything. So 550 million kunas can be saved. On the basis of these items alone, 550 million kuna savings can cover all offices means both health homes and private offices and strongly support primary health care, which must be the first feature of defending the health of Croatian citizens. I don't think this is good, because we're not going to let God repeat the case from Zapresic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98644	We're going to the 20th Amendment of the same agent. The amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 67(3) of the final draft law allows for the possibility of providing health care in a particular area to extend private practice to a healthcare professional until the 70th year of life. It's obvious. Here you go. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98646	We all know that the number of doctors, health care professionals is reduced, which is due to age, which is due to insufficient number of specialists, which is because they move out, or go to better paid jobs abroad. For this reason, our experts from the Committee on Health of the Party Change Croatia believe that work should be allowed until the 70th year. Of course, if the doctor who works there is mentally healthy. If it is, and most of them are, these are people with great experience, these are people who can still work, and I don't see that in such a difficult situation, this law forces such people to retire even though they could benefit all citizens in those areas where they live, especially where there are a small number of doctors and there are a growing number of places where there are no doctors at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98647	Now we will stop for a while, welcome the pupils and pupils of the elementary school of Ivan Gundulić from Zagreb. Welcome! Amendment No. 21st Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98648	Amendment 21 is not accepted. The explanation is as follows Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98649	Thank you. Amendment No. 22. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98650	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment allows private practice for the activity and collection of taking, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells for the purpose of treatment in order to prevent trade in tissues, cells and organs in transplant medicine the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98651	My colleague Sagittarius, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98652	So it's not really clear to me how you interpret the resignation that you haven't changed this item because we've asked to delete this point, means that the following activities cannot be performed in private practices: collection, taking, testing, processing, storage, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells for treatment purposes. So if taking a papal test in gynecological private offices, if the puncture of the knot on the breast or thyroid node is not taking the test and processing of cells then what is. So we will, with the resignation and retention of this paragraph, prevent this article from doing all these diagnostic tests for the purpose of treatment in private offices. I absolutely am against taking and transplanting human organs for the purpose of treatment for now in private institutions because I think it should be under absolute control of the state at the moment because it is only justified but taking, collecting, testing, processing and storage and distribution of human tissues and cells, tissues and cells are nevertheless something other than a complete organ that is transplanted must be enabled in private offices. I simply don't understand how we're going to continue in private offices to sample the tissue. And I think this is a restriction on this particular activity in private practice at a time when we are aware of the long waiting lists and the increased demands of citizens for health care are completely unwarranted. I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98653	Okay. We're going to amendment number 23 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98654	The amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 127(1) of the final proposal of the Law provides that the High School of Health may, in accordance with the specific law governing the area of higher education, establish an internal organisational unit in which the healthcare activity is carried out for the purposes of teaching is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98655	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98656	So what we're looking for is that this article is changing because of a situation that is catastrophic at the level of treatment and the concerns of curative students who don't live and don't study in the city where they were born, they have a registered residence. At present, in Croatia, there are 113 386 students, of which students with a residence outside the village where the institution is based is 74 897, so 75 000 students in Croatia do not study in a city where they have a residence and where they have a selected doctor of family medicine. If he comes to Zagreb, then he must stay, change his residence, he must choose his general practice or in Rijeka or something, 30 000 of them are coming to Zagreb and that is absolutely impossible for most of them. So these students have been left behind for many years and left with emergency hospital receptions and we believe this law should have finally been regulated. I think they are left only for the mercy of doctors who will receive them if there is an emergency, but if they have a dermatological, orthopedic and I don't know which glasses and dioptria exams, they have to call their mother to send them a nocturnal bus to come and go to a specialist in Zagreb. I believe that this law should have finally been settled and that, regardless of whether MOST, HDZ or SDP, you have finally been pointed out by many years of people from the university and doctors, you have missed this opportunity and this law should have been resolved and therefore I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98657	We'll vote tomorrow. It is now up to 24 amendments to MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98658	The amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 127(1) of the final proposal of the Law provides that the High School of Health may, in accordance with a specific law governing the area of higher education, establish an internal organisational unit in which the healthcare activity is carried out for the purposes of teaching is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98659	We can't hear the obvious, so let's go to Amendment 25 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98660	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98661	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 26 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98662	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives is number 25, which refers to the number of members and the composition of the board of the hospital health care institution whose founding units of the regional self-government and the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98663	It's obvious. There's no one from the SDP, so I can't be obvious. We're going to Amendment 27 of the Independent List Bridge Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98664	The amendment to Article 83(4) shall not be accepted because the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives number 25 relating to the number of members and the composition of the administrative council of the hospital health institution whose establishment is the unit of the regional self-government and the city of Zagreb. In the context of the appointment procedure of members of the Administrative Council, Article 83 paragraphs 5 and 7 and the additional paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of the amendment are not accepted because it is contrary to the management rights, and with regard to the responsibilities of the founders of a certain law on institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98665	It's obvious, there's a representative of the Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98666	So the Independent Lists Bridge has requested a little more changes as regards Article 83 and the work of the Governing Councils and the proposed amendments, we believe it is necessary to ensure that the bodies of the local self-government units that are hospital founders have a majority in the administrative councils of hospitals, okay. But to the proposed amendments, which is the addition of the item: health institutions are obliged to describe members of the boards of directors and their programme of development of the institution publicly published on the website of the institution, members of the board of directors of the medical institution cannot be the director and deputy director of another health institution because it is then in a direct conflict and the mandate of the members of the board of directors to last 5 years. We also felt that the elected members should attach a certificate of impunity and a statement of lack of conflict of interest. The proposed changes would ensure that the administrative councils do not depend on the election cycle because we have asked for a 5-year term, that the administrative councils be elected motivated by people who aim at the welfare of the health institution, not only in order of members of the HDZ at this time and Croatian dawn, but in public publication of the CV, work plan and report on work would ensure public information on people who manage health institutions. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98667	Okay. We are now going to the 28th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98668	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives is accepted. Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98669	Then we'll go to Amendment 29 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98670	The amendment is not accepted because an amendment to the HDZ Club of Representatives has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98671	Amendment number 30 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98672	The amendment is not accepted because access to data to the implementation of the health care institution's work and development programme within the meaning of the amendment submitted is possible on the procedure and in a manner prescribed by the statutes of the health institution and the rules on the right to access to information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98673	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98674	Thank you. We have asked for words to be added to the work programme and development programme in article 84 behind paragraph 1: And to publish it on the website of the institution on proposals from the Expert Council brings a programme of work and development of each of the activities of the institutions and publishes a periodic report on the programme carried out once a year which is public for all employees of the institution. It is currently being done in some institutions, and these institutions have also shown that they function more successfully. In Article 84(1), the following sentence is added: The report on the programme carried out shall be published at least once a year on the website of the institution. Therefore, the work plan and the development of each activity in the establishment would be avoided through a work plan, so it would avoid an even distribution of activities in an institution currently dependent on the impact of individual managers on the administration. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98675	We're going to amendment number 31 of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98676	The amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that adds a new subparagraph of 8 to Articles 92 and 7 to Article 92 which reads as follows: it shall monitor and ensure an equal level of professional training and education of all healthcare professionals and that the current subparagraphs 8 to 10 become subparagraphs 9 to 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98677	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98678	Thank you. I am not only satisfied with this inclusion, so we asked that as far as the administrative board and the work of the hospital administration are concerned, that the administrative board propose professional foundations for the health care institution's work and development programme to be added: and all structural units of the institution. I am glad that you have accepted that the institution will ensure an equal and uniform level of professional training and education of all healthcare professionals if we know what the current situation is and that healthcare professionals have, in particular, one of the reasons why they leave, not the possibility and availability of professional training, placed high on the scale of the reasons why they leave the Republic of Croatia, this means the current situation where over a million jobs for healthcare professionals in the EU have been opened at the moment and we are still thinking whether we will allow everyone transparently to be able to perfect themselves. We have asked the Administrative Council to propose to the Director of the Management Board the harmonisation of the professional work of a health institution with financial opportunities. Therefore, in line with our financial opportunities, we ask that it be deleted because professional work is defined by the rules of profession rather than financial opportunities and must not be subject to a compromise which could also cause a breach of the Law on Medical Medicine of Article 4 on how to perform medical activities. The proposed changes by the Expert Council justify their name and place in the centre of interest equal and professional work of the institution of all construction units and health professionals, we ask for a vote on this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98679	We're going to Amendment 32 again, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98680	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the amendment to Article 103(1) is not accepted because the abovementioned article under Chapter 7 of the final proposal for a law regulating health institutions, at the primary level of health care, is regulated as a health care institution at that level of health activities. For that reason, this Article cannot be regulated by questions relating to the offices. The amendment is also not accepted because paragraph 2 of Article 103 states that health care activities are proposed to introduce sanitary protection, which, according to its content, is the activity of the County Public Health Institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98681	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98682	Article 103 of this Law is one of the most interesting articles that has actually experienced the most change from discourse that all primary healthcare doctors will be allowed to have a concession because what Croatian citizens need to know is that even now 70% of them are doing the job of concessionaries and 30% of them are in some very bad way I will not tell the slave owner, but the subordinate position relative to their colleagues and are tied to their homes of health and receive salaries from 7 to 8000 kuna. Doctors who treat you, dear citizens all these years and no change whatsoever. So you enter the family doctor's office of concessionaires or those who are in a home of health except that this one receives a lower salary, no difference except for the equipment of the office itself, you will not notice. Currently, 12% of team holders are missing in primary healthcare, so at present 1163 family doctors, 189 gynecologists and 240 pediatricians who are missing, which is why young people who have just entered the system without sufficient experience are forced to cover and operate in 2 to 3 remote offices, which undermines the quality of monitoring the state of the domicillin population and also deny continuity in providing healthcare. And that is why we think that it was necessary to make it more transparent for doctors who want to enter a concession contract to do so if they want to and we hope that the ministry will have the strength to allow doctors working in depressed areas to make more favourable contracts so that they can actually get a slightly higher amount of funds if they do not have a full number of patients because otherwise we will have completely devastated areas that are now present throughout Croatia. So it took a completely different approach to the problem of solving concessions and who can go to concessions or not but not just like this on a flat-rate basis until 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98683	Thank you. Representative Ivan Lovrinović, Amendment number 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98684	The amendment referred to in Article 103(1) shall not be accepted as that article under Chapter 7 of the final proposal for a law governing health institutions at the primary level of health care shall be governed as a health care institution at that level. For that reason, this Article cannot be regulated by questions relating to the offices. The amendment to Article 103(3) shall not be accepted in order to ensure the availability of healthcare for citizens and, in that sense, the duty of home health to ensure that established activities are carried out if... activities in accordance with the public health service network are not organised differently through the office, thus creating assumptions for the achievement of the Constitution of established tasks of the units of the area(regional self-government in the field of health). [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98685	The obvious, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98686	I am not satisfied with your explanation, Mr. Minister, why, because 70&% of doctors in primary health care are private concessionaries, or according to the new termology of contract office. And now these, these 70% of doctors on the first line of health of Croatian citizens are practically declared a third league. But those 30% of home doctors, the hardworking people who work there, they're really threatened. But you know why they're threatened? Let's take two offices to the health care center. One is the home office, where the home doctor works, and in the office next to him is the office where the private concessionary works, i.e. contract office. Suppose they have the same number of patients so they get the same amount of money from HZZ. Do you know how much pay the home doctor will get? Well, almost half as small as he does the same job, compared to a private concessionaire. But that's not because a private concessionist was moved by something to forgive this expression, but because he behaves more rationally, which is more comfortable, gets, makes devices. And you know who's exhausting that home doctor? Well, that administration, the health directors, the drivers, who's gonna make them that much money. Therefore, these people have shown, contract offices have shown how well they can be managed by the money they earn. They're a good example. So here I can't take the impression of putting a strong pressure on you here safely from the City of Zagreb, to keep those powerful men, who someone must always call and pull by the sleeve. You see, you continue to refuse these good amendment parties to change Croatia and our... If I had accidentally told HDZ I would have supported you, if I had increased the majority a little bit, you would have accepted all 17 amendments, you would have asked me if you had any more, bring it as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98687	Thank you. Amendment No. 34. HSS counseling club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98688	The amendment is not accepted because it is estimated that the provision under which the home of health is obliged with the decision of the founder ensure that there are up to 25% of the offices in each prescribed activity, achieves an appropriate public service relationship with private practice to ensure that the principle of availability of healthcare at the primary level of health care is met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98689	Apparition of fellow Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98690	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we cannot accept the explanation. Because if there is such a provision left in the law up to 25% of health care offices, it means it can, and it doesn't have to have 25% of the office. We suggested that it be at least 30% to ib ensure the financial stability of the health homes and to ensure available health care for all patients, especially in rural areas. This way you send a message, we don't need health homes. So say it publicly, they don't need health homes, because if he has up to 25%, then he can't organize a 100% public health service for the citizens. You can't organize something that you have up to 20%. You didn't even put a tool in your hands to insult the people who stayed in the service, to raise their salaries, because they are working on them, especially when they organized the mortuary which they organized and kept on the weekends and holidays that concessionaries cornered. They didn't work. And in this way we send a bad message, that what Croatia was famous for, it was a system of homes of health and a system of family medicine through the homes of health, we collapse not to give a new step, but to go back in terms of availability of health care and collapse of health homes. Well, you know that there's a lot of health homes in financial difficulties, that they owe over 300 days to suppliers, that they don't pay dental technicians, etc. In this way we will not provide them with financial stability and therefore we have put a minimum 30% of the office must remain in the health care system. I don't understand why you don't accept that. You're like a minister of conductors who manages this system, but you've been cleared of the orchestra, your health homes aren't working, you don't have your first violins because there's no doctor, and your patients are unhappy. It's a real situation and we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98691	Amendment No. 35th has been withdrawn. So let's go to Amendment No. 36th Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98692	The amendment is not accepted because it is estimated that the provision under which the home of health is obliged with the decision of the founder ensure that there are up to 25% of the offices in each prescribed activity, achieves an appropriate public service-private practice to ensure that the principle of availability of healthcare at the primary level of health care is met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98693	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98694	Dear Minister, says the devil is in detail and here this word is up to 25% allowing you to have 0% of the offices that are not privatized in the homes of health, thus continuing privatisation, the Americanization of Croatian health care. I think you should take a step back and return to the printing model at home of health, the home of health should and must be the central place of health care in a particular area. With this, you continued to practice that was guilty, and I think you should have made a different step that would have led to our health care being more effective. The European Commission also warns us that the European Commission warns us that we have too many cardiovascular diseases, that we have too many magic diseases. The European Commission has also made it very clear that primary health care is one of the weakest links in preventing these serious diseases. I'm sorry that you didn't start with a Slovenian model that showed that it's all the same who is a concessionist who isn't, if everyone has the same amount of money and if everyone has the same salary, then it's not worth it to anyone to go to concessions. Slovenians gave everyone equal amount of money all have equal salaries and de facto they gave up concessions in primary health care and are returning to the printing model and I am sorry that you did not make this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You're definitely continuing to privatise healthcare because if you say up to 25%, it could be 0%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98695	Let's go to Amendment No. 37th Agent Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98696	The amendment is not accepted because, in accordance with the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Commercial Space N.N. No. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98698	Here's another bad article in the new bill. Why? Because he's giving back to the local powers, what's he giving them? The ability to abuse and manipulate business space to harm and homes of health, as well as contract offices from our private concessionaries. In this law you propose, so we have a home of health somewhere and now the local community can rent it to health institutions, or to private companies to sell sports equipment, technical means, etc. So you can only imagine in this kind of Croatia where the judiciary doesn't work on what it might look like one day and instead of having a place in that home of health for which we've all been paying for decades of contributions, instead of being given by a healthcare worker, a private concessionist, or a contract office, there's a local head, mayor, the mayor, that a company should carry out a whole other activity. Well, that's not the point of health care for homes of health, etc. but what we particularly wanted in this proposal of our party to change Croatia on the basis of the proposal of the primary healthcare doctor with whom we have been working for over 3 years, very actively, we suggest that the contract offices space be rented for only 1 kuna. And now someone's gonna say so wait, are you crazy? So look, if the local community, or the ministry, is to make such a decision, the minister, that directly approves such a space for 1 kuna, we will have cheaper primary health care, and a particular reason for that is, I said, for decades, we've all been singled out, we've built these health homes. Please prevent this new point and the area of clientelism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98699	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 38 of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98700	The amendment is not accepted because the health care law, NN No 87/09 as a basic law governing the content, mode of action and the conditions for the performance of certain activities in health care in the definition of the activities of sanitary engineers does not allow the exercise of that activity at all levels of health care, as it appears in other activities regulated by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98701	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98702	So in Articles 107 and 108, I asked for practically the same change, which is to add sanitary protection. So that the military health centre of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia has the status of a military health institution and provides health care to employees, has activities and family, dental, specific health health care, hygienic epidemiological health care, specialist consular health care and pharmaceutical activity. Why? We believe that the item sanitary protection as an activity carried out under sanitary engineering is extremely important at all levels of health institutions in general. It is precisely because it includes ensuring the health properness of food and water for human consumption,... control of micro-climate conditions and hygiene of patient accommodation and controlled implementation of disinfection procedures of equipment and rooms with a view to combating hospital infections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has been particularly disturbing to me in these two articles, one refers to a prison hospital, and one refers to a military centre as someone who was a soldier and 1629 spent in the fighting sector, I do not know how Minister Krsticevic allowed it to say: the normatives and standards regarding the space of equipment and employees in paragraph 1 of this article are prescribed by the minister with the previous consent of the defence minister. So the military health center is prescribed by the Minister of Health, but when we talk about a prison hospital, it says: Standard standards regarding space, etc. prescribes by the Rules of Procedure of the Minister of Justice, with the prior consent of the Minister of Health. I don't know why there are two such differences, I think we should have left it to the Minister of Health, with the previous consent of the Secretary of Defense here, this is the judiciary. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98703	Amendment number 39 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98704	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as well as amendment 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98706	So here I also asked that the prison hospital in Zagreb, the Ministry of Justice, is a detention facility in which health care is provided to persons deprived of liberty in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and, therefore, the prison hospital has a pharmaceutical activity, hygienic epidemiological health care, sanitary care and hospital treatment to add this item, means sanitary protection as an activity that is important. Especially right now, it would draw attention to prison guards who insist on their unions as well as to protect them from the fact that there is no one at the prison hospital who is to receive therapy to patients who are to be treated, but that's what prison guards do. They spoke to the public multiple times, the medical chamber and the ministry to protect them because it should be done by a healthcare professional, unfortunately it has not been resolved yet, and I hope that at some point someone will come to someone that it should still be resolved because medicines should be shared by a medically educated person, not a prison guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98707	Amendment number 40, re-engagement club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98708	The amendment is not accepted because the Health Activity Act is a fundamental law governing the content, mode of action and the conditions for the performance of certain activities in health care, by definition of the activities of sanitary engineers, does not allow the exercise of that activity at all levels of health care as it does in other activities regulated by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98709	It's obvious. There's no obvious, thank you. Then we'll go to the 41st Amendments of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98710	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98711	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 42, MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98712	It is not accepted, and the rationale in the clinical institution is carried out in the most complex forms of healthcare and other research activities. The clinical institution shall conduct higher education and scientific work for the activity for which it has been established. The clinical institution shall obtain that name on the basis of the teaching activities of scientific research. Conditions for teaching and teaching at higher levels of pre-graduate and graduates, postgraduate from several professions, doctor of medicine, pharmacist, nurse and others who come closer shall be governed by the rules laid down in Article 122 paragraph 3 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98713	The MP's not here, so we'll vote tomorrow. Amendment No. 43. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98714	It's unacceptable. The reasons are that the competent higher universities are involved in the procedure of assigning the names of clinical institutions in such a way that they are asked for a preliminary opinion in a particular procedure rather than a proposal for the award of a name, given that it is for a medical establishment that is assigned and the name of a clinical institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98715	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98716	... So, MOST of Independent Lists has here proposed several amendments in order to several articles which are actually the conclusion of the dean convocation of the Dean of Medical Facultys in Croatia. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We therefore asked for Article 122 to change paragraph 1 and it reads: “The name of the school’s clinical institution assigns the minister to the proposal of the Faculty of Health Guidance. ” This is what we are asking for to be changed and it is said: “Normative and standards that must meet clinics, clinical hospitals and clinical hospital centres for the assignment of the name of a clinical institution are determined by the Minister, with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for science and previously obtained opinion of medical schools, dental faculty and competent chambers. Therefore, in Article 94 of the applicable Health Protection Act, the same way is prescribed for the award of the name of a clinical institution as well as for the final proposal of the Health Protection Act. Regulation on the conditions to be met by health institutions or parts of health institutions for the award of the name clinic or clinical institution adopted under the applicable health care law. It is prescribed that only the opinion of the Committee for Scientific Education which determines whether there is a teaching need and pedagogical conditions for the award of the title is required from higher universities. The procedure provides that there is only a pool of opinions and no situation is defined if the opinion is negative for the award of the name clinical institution. In view of the fact that the clinical institutions are a teaching base for performing clinical studies, it is possible to assign the name of a clinical institution to a health institution where no teaching will be performed. And therefore, we believe that the name of the school's clinical institution is therefore assigned by the minister to the proposal of the Faculty of Health Guidance and Standards and Standards which must meet the clinics, clinical hospitals and clinical hospital centres for the assignment of the name clinical institution, it lays down the rules of the minister with the prior consent of the minister responsible for science.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98717	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 44 of MP Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98718	The amendment is not accepted and the explanation is as in Amendment 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98719	Amendment 45 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98720	The amendment is not accepted. In the procedure for the award of the name of clinical institutions, all competent higher schools should be included in accordance with the Regulation that closer regulates normatives and standards for the award of the name of clinical institutions and not only medical and dental colleges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98721	Amendment 46. Re-adjustment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98722	The amendment is not accepted because resolving the pay issue of healthcare professionals in a cumulative working relationship that employees in different systems of science and health care need to be dealt with by law governing the salaries of public service employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98723	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98724	Thus, if we do not regulate the law, the situation will continue to remain unresolved and wage balance within the health system as far as working in the battery is concerned. So in Article 126, we proposed to add a new paragraph 2 which reads: “The regulation of Article 162 of this Law provides for the addition to basic salaries of teachers and persons in co-operational professions, healthcare professionals who carry out courses in health institutions for the purposes of medical orientation and who have a basic working relationship simultaneously with a health institution and with a university in a way that performs unfulfilled jobs in a health institution or university.” And then items 2 and 3 would become items 3 and 4. Therefore, in the implementing regulations and collective agreements in the area of higher education and health care, it is not appropriate to establish an integrated cumulative working relationship and therefore in relation to the appropriate payment of salaries paid by higher schools and health institutions, which is why difficulties arise in the realisation of integrated cumulative labour relations. We have different teachers' salaries that work in medical schools and hospitals, each of the universities differently. Higher education of healthcare professionals, scientific and professional activities in the field of clinical science and public health and health care can be performed exclusively by healthcare professionals, teachers selected for scientific teaching and persons selected for co-operational professions working in medical institutions. It is an important prerequisite for teachers and persons in co-operational titles to teach in healthcare institutions to establish a working relationship with a clinical institution and with a high school of health care. Health care professionals thus work maximum hours allowed in the organisational units of health institutions, as well as in the same organisational units of health institutions as a rule a full teaching burden for high schools of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98725	Let's go to Amendment No. 47th Representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98726	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as Amendment 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98727	Amendment 48. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98728	The amendment is not accepted because specific health care within the meaning of the provision of Article 24. The final proposal of the Law concerns workers, therefore, cannot accept an amendment relating to the specific health care of students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98729	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98730	So again, we wanted to draw attention to the inadequately resolved health care of students of all the universities in Croatia. I note that in Zagreb there are such 30,000 students, in Rijeka 9,000, in Split 7 thousand 900. What we should actually open up a debate or try to find a solution is also for students outside the Republic of Croatia because they have no resolved situation with their health care, why 3223? That's why I think we should do this by reciprocity because current Croatian students in BiH, or Mostar, have 2500 schools and they keep trying to draw attention to the fact that they also have only the right to emergency medical attention but not the treatment that is necessary... which should at least be dealt with by some kind of mutual agreement, and this is how they're left to themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, students are mild, national treasure of the Republic of Croatia and we cannot continue to treat them this way, not only by emergency, in emergency offices and emergency receptions to resolve their health condition but should be allowed to be in a place where the university is open to a student clinic that, in addition to preventive examinations, will have the right to work and curatives, so a prescription issued, issued and treated by these young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98731	Amendment 49 MP Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98732	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in Amendment 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98733	Amendment number 50 of MPs Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98734	The amendment proposed by the Immunological Institute to be designated by the State Health Institute shall not be accepted as such a provision would be in conflict with the provision of Article 128(2) of the final draft of the law governing the state health care institution and health institutions for the exercise of professional and scientific activities under the law and duties of the Republic of Croatia in the field of public health institutions for the exercise of professional and scientific activities under the law and duties of the Republic of Croatia in the field of public health activities of medical work, telemedicine, toxicology, anti-doping, transfusion medicine and emergency medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98735	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98736	I find it really hard to hear and especially accept this explanation, Mr. Minister, which you said because it turns out that the Immunological Institute for which here is a party We change Croatia requires that it be recognised by the state office, that it is finally put on its feet, that it starts to work, that you in the ruling coalition think that it is not crucial for Croatian public health, that it is not a commitment, so please, I am not a doctor, I am an economist. But we all know what viruses mean, so this is how this institution is left to simply disappear and fail. So this coalition a year ago here with one mayor who shares buses and hats in Croatia, fire trucks, who gives everyone what they need and punishes us with 18% of what we live in Zagreb, watch out, in Zagreb the punishment is to live and that penalty is 18% cut. But to get back to this, to the Immunological Institute. Mr. Minister, 110 million kuna was spent on vaccines in 2016. You know how much has been spent in a year before? Under 60 million kuna. Well, it is clear from that that some stakeholders care about the disappearance of the Immunological Institute and the fact that we will double or triple-pay the vaccines that we have produced, no one cares because they have learned to store public money. I do not see, and I have no idea that this coalition will solve this issue, so we need to change Croatia and new people have to come here to open a new site and to declare the Immunological Institute as a state institution because it is one of the key institutions to protect citizens from infection and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98737	Amendment number 51, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98738	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98739	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 52, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98740	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98741	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 53, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98742	The amendment is not accepted because the provisions of Article 155(2) of the final proposal for the law of a particular person who is considered health care professionals, who carry out medical activities in the diagnostics and treatment process, are not adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98743	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98744	So, we asked d in Article 155 to change the item that reads: healthcare professionals are educated at universities, universities and vocational, secondary schools under accredited teaching programmes through pre-graduate university studies and graduate university, postgraduate, undergraduate and specialised professional studies of health care for the health professions listed in the European base of regulated professions. So this is exactly how we felt it should be stated in this paragraph 2. What I wanted to emphasize in particular is that we asked to add item 3 which reads: Doctors are fundamental and relevant health care holders, which is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia whose concept and structure and conditions for performing a medical profession are governed by a special law. I believe that it was especially necessary for those who are the bearers of the system themselves to quote this particular article. Why? The whole time we're actually running away from the fact that the doctor is increasingly in the system than the fact that right now Europe has admitted that 15% of the population in Europe is not covered by health care. We are running away from the fact that currently, by 2025, 1.8 million new jobs will be opened, many of them will be for doctors leaving our country. At present, about 600 doctors from Croatia have gone, 1500 have collected all the documentation, are ready to leave and we still do not recognize who they are, doctors, is the same with nurses. So we haven't solved the recognition of professional qualifications for them, we are insufficiently following the current situation regarding their distribution within the system itself, we have not coordinated the systematization of jobs in health institutions. And I think it's finally time to define some things clearly within this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98745	Thank you. Amendment number 54, MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98746	Sustained. In particular, Article 56 of the Treaty on the The Health Activity Act is prescribed that professional graduates of medical-laboratory diagnostics carry out their activities on a team whose holder is an appropriate specialist in medicine or medical biochemistry or persons for a graduate university study of medical biochemistry at all levels of health care and which is also prescribed in the provisions of Article 27(2). The health care law. I also said earlier that the Constitutional Court had also been manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98747	Amendment number 55. It's an independent list bridge counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98748	The amendment shall not be accepted, as the performance of the work, of the employee for his account from the activity carried out by the employer is permitted under the general rules on work with the approval of the employer. Which means it's the work of another subject, not the employer with whom the worker is in a working relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98749	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98750	So one of the two key things that Most did when he was in that coalition with HDZ was within the healthcare system, it was that it was finally regulated by a regulation work outside full-time and that in that short time, specialists were finally not bound by slave contracts for their healthcare institutions. What we are looking for is the step we need because of the lack of doctors in Croatia, it is that the doctor can also work in his health care in his apartment. Last weekend, I was at the Congress of the Croatian Association of Employers in Health and Minister of Health of Montenegro and the Minister of Health of Slovenia said they had already been resolved. So it would not be better if the doctor could stay this afternoon, after working hours at his institution and continue to work as a private practice, means to examine patients, reduce waiting lists and work in a very clear and transparent way, but now that it is possible to dress, go to another private institution and continue to examine there. Everything needs to be done to reduce waiting lists that you know are no matter what we're talking about right now, and there are more than 800,000 of our citizens. So you can keep doctors in many ways, and one of them would be one of them, if he could work in private and in his health care facility, with which no one in Croatia has problems except for the current health administration. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98751	Amendment No. 56th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98752	The amendment is not accepted. Because resolving the pay issue of healthcare professionals in a cumulative working relationship where employees in different systems, sciences and health care are required to resolve the law governing public service salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98753	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98754	We're looking to get into art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Therefore, by paying the proposed supplement, it would not increase the funds so far for payment of salaries to teachers and co-workers, healthcare professionals, but only in a prescribed and uniform manner would regulate the work and practice so far in the conduct of clinical health institutions and higher education of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98755	Amendment No. 57th Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98756	The amendment is not accepted, for reasons other than the amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98757	Amendment No. 58. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98758	The amendment is not accepted by the fact that the issues of improvement of persons working in the health care system, and they have not completed the education of health guidance, should be addressed by the relevant regulations of the respective resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98759	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98760	We're looking to get into art. 167. adds a new paragraph 2 which reads, the content and manner of professional training of health associates to the regulation lays down by the Minister, with the prior opinion of the competent chambers and to add a new item that reads, healthcare partners are equal in all their work rights with healthcare professionals and the provisions of the Regulation on the coefficients of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of the collective contract in health activities are applied. Such a proposal would therefore contribute to building a better and more efficient system of training of persons working in the healthcare system, and would allow co-workers to be continuously educated with healthcare professionals, with the control of professional chambers. Medical associates, when taking part in treatment diagnostics procedures, are today in an unfavourable relationship with healthcare professionals. In order to regulate this discriminatory relationship, labour rights should be equalised by healthcare professionals and co-workers. This equality is achieved by this proposal which does not create in an artificial and inconsistent way new healthcare professionals, without education of health guidance, but which ensures the rights arising from their work in the health system. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98761	Amendment No. 59th Representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98762	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons, traineeships and work under supervision which the healthcare professional is trained for independent work, and shall be carried out within the same profession once, independently of the educational level, resulting in no double training required.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98763	Amendment No. 60. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98764	The amendment is not accepted, because it is. In the 180th final draft of the law, it regulates the issue of working under the supervision of doctors of medicine, not the issue of professional training of health care professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98765	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98766	So, at this point again, I would once again look back at one very bad decision that is the decision of this health administration, which is to abolish the covert internship. So you can't say that one of the state's top authorities was Professor Chikesh, who was also in negotiations, and he knows that a traineeship should have been abolished, but also that negotiations can be restarted in that sense, because that's the way we want to educate our young doctors. What we could rewrite, it is a secondaryity as it is done in Slovenia, where it is required. So, you can't say and ignore the fact that all the citizens of this country, that all the doctors in this country, when all the students, when they are finishing medical colleges themselves consider it to be a more quality and safer provision of health care and treatment and their first job, to which they must go immediately after the university, a necessary transition period where they will be able to identify themselves with a new identity, which is to be treated, to implement everything they have learned theoretically at their universities, to make it known, 98% of all the students of medical schools in Croatia and that we do not die the need for mandatory forms of training after the completed medical school, was called a traineeship or we call it a secondary he must be obliged. Mandatory in a minimum of nine months where certain conditions would pass, and not to let you know that this young man directly from college and can treat you, so you too, President of the Parliament, can come to Brač and that the first time you get some serious health problem is treated by a young student who graduated a week ago, you and your children, therefore, it concerns this whole country not MOSTA and HDZ. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98767	Thank you! We're going to Amendment 61, and so is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98768	The amendment is not accepted because the procedure for the adoption of the Regulation requires the obtaining of prior opinions from all chambers responsible for the area of specific specialisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98769	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98770	We believe that the current way in which specializations are determined is that their form, mode of work, control and everything is not the way it should be. We believe that centralised financing of management, allocation and control of the implementation of specializations is necessary for the reform of mentorship within specialization, so that the mentor has a maximum of 2 specialists and needs national planning and needs for specialists. Of course, the current health administration insists that this year's more specialization is of course, but there's been a shift of generations. We also know that nothing has been done about human resources and that certain specializations, even in large centres, have been done since the last year, two, means in Zagreb and Rijeka, they remain unfulfilled in Split, so there is no plan for what specializations we will need, there has been a problem with anesthesiologists and you know, we are not planning where we will need these certain specialists, and we are simply brought into a situation that there are currently not enough specialists. In 10,000 years, 4,000 specialists will retire, if we don't make the right approach to planning the specialization will not have us, we won't have anyone to treat. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98771	Amendment number 62 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98772	The amendment is not accepted by reason, a purpose aimed at implementing the national centralised specialist training tabled by this amendment will be achieved by adopting a national plan for specialist training of health professionals for the five-year period. That plan will be based on the need to develop health care activities at the primary, secondary, tertiary level as well as the need for a health system for appropriate healthcare professionals’ specialities, their number, schedule and age structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98773	Here are my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98774	Therefore, in Article 182, we requested that paragraph I be amended and that specialisation may be granted to a healthcare professional who has been granted an authorisation for independent work and that in paragraph II. deletes the text: and which is in the working relationship of a health institution or a company performing a health care activity or having private practice or working with private workers with completed university graduate studies. Therefore, the implementation of national centralised specialist training, whose funding would be from a special fund with funds planned for specialist training, is essential for maintaining the human resources of health care and for the uniform distribution and availability of health care in Croatia. Therefore, the overall concept of specialist training of doctor medicine is necessary, therefore, centralized financing, management and implementation control, assignment in a transparent manner and a new mentoring system. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98775	Amendment number 63 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98776	The amendment is not accepted, and the amendment proposes the inclusion of the National Commission in the inclusion of specialist training in the process of adopting the rules on standards for the reception of specialists and the way in which a specialist examination is passed, with the reasons that it is a matter of training and that competent professional organisations should therefore give a preliminary opinion. In view of the fact that health chambers are a health care professional organisation of healthcare professionals, as provided for in Article 183(3) of the final proposal of the Chamber of Law, the representation of professional organisations in the procedure of adoption of that Regulation has been ensured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98777	It's obvious. Nothing. We're going to Amendment 64 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98778	It's unacceptable. Namely, the purpose proposed by this amendment to be achieved through the implementation of the national centralised specialist training will be achieved by the adoption of a national plan for specialist training of health professionals for the five-year period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98779	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98780	We think that we should finally say that the health system is one of the largest systems in Croatia, potentially one of the key actors of development but that it has...in the beginning.... [[You can't hear me.]] The MOST of Independent Lists requires that all of these articles that speak about the fact that specialists must return the funds they have invested, that they should be deleted. I think it is high time to say that there is no doctor in Croatia, that 15% of hospital specialists have collected all the necessary documentation to leave Croatia and that the health system is therefore one of the largest systems in the Republic of Croatia, potentially one of the key carriers but it rests on human resources. We can build hospitals, we can equip with state-of-the-art devices, we can buy not know how many linear accelerators we're going to pay 23 million kuna like this on Rebr, but there's no doctor and we have to think about them, and that means we can't go more penalizing than we have to go affirmatively to doctors, young specialists and offer them a solution, so some new measures that will keep them and not tie them to slave contracts because if they want to leave, they'll go at any cost. Searching...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98781	Amendment number 65 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98782	The amendment is not accepted as it removes the article relating to the health care professional’s obligation after the completion of the specialist training and the specialist’s examination and the payment of compensation in the event of an infringement shall state the obligation. It is estimated that the implementation of the proposed solutions would ensure justice because these solutions provide security to the founders of health institutions in order to prevent the creation of a financial and staff deficit on the one hand, while on the other hand restricting health institutions with regard to claims for uniform compensation in the event of early termination of the contract on the work of health workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98784	So we asked to delete these articles because these fees will eventually go back to about 800,000 kuna. So you have to understand that these young people did their 8 hours anyway, some of them worked overtime. It should be said that doctors are currently doing 3 million overtime hours every year, which means that we are still missing, no matter how much the current health administration has been saying that there are more and more of us. What is necessary is not to punish doctors, but to try to go affirmatively, and this is to enable professional collective bargaining, better organisation of work, enabling additional work for all doctors from the same activity, therefore also in their health institutions, respecting European criteria of weathering norms, encouraging housing credit for young doctors, tax relief for work and life in less attractive environments, systematically enabling professional training, fairer progress and simpler and more efficient procedure for recognising foreign professional qualifications. All this is necessary, do not punish doctors because this way you will not keep them in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98785	Amendment number 66 of MPs Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98786	The amendment is not accepted because these are the introduction of the Croatian chamber of primary healthcare doctors along with the Croatian medical chamber as a professional organisation representing the interests of all doctors in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98787	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98788	Mr Minister, if it were true that the Croatian medical chamber represents the strong interests of the primary health care of the doctor, then the primary health care would not be where it is. Only 3.2 billion kunas are allocated to primary health care, while about 8 and a half billion kunas are allocated to the hospital system. So you can see that these people in primary health care are on their own. Domicians barely make ends meet, they're at risk. I call on them to finally be encouraged, the Constitution allows them to choose whether to work there or go through contract offices tomorrow. But why prevent the establishment of a primary health care doctor’s chamber? Well, that's the base, I said, first line of defense for the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So they have a specific way of organization, specific interests, there can be 80% and solve 80% of the problem of citizens coming to a doctor for the first time. The regulated countries stand out about 30% of all health care expenditures right in primary health care and over 60%, we're about 13%. So that's not a good thing. At the time of the former Yugoslavia, much more has been allocated than now. So politics has cross-border health care, politics must be driven out of health care, we need to solve the issue of health regions to be 4 health regions, not now to be county health regions where each mayor has his own policy, and they don't have money and what they don't have. Well, this is a completely unsettled system that needs to be dealt with like that. We therefore believe that a proposal should be adopted that primary health care has its own chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98789	Thank you. Amendment number 67 Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98790	The amendment cannot be accepted because of its inaccuracies, i.e. the inaccuracies to which health care professionals performing activities are based on the solution of the Minister of Health's mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98791	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98792	So I will complete today's presentation of the amendments to the Independent Lists Bridge for the Health Protection Act. We believe that the law did not justify everything it needed and did not think well of all that our system needs. So the key moves needed by our Croatian healthcare system are to ensure financial stability, organise primary healthcare to be quality, to be available and to be a fortune keeper, to manage the quality of health outcomes, but also to preserve the health housing in the Republic of Croatia. Here I would like to say especially the position of nurses who are in a very insinuating situation with a huge number of overtime hours that then shifts to their days off and then some other sisters have to work for them and then they accumulate overtime hours, etc. So when we talk about doctors and nurses and those doctors, those healthcare professionals who work in the health care system, I'm talking about it because it's important for patients because we're all here primarily because of patients who need to be given better, quality, equal health care. By fighting for a better position of those who provide health care, their satisfaction, better wages and more transparent advancement and recognition of professional qualifications which a special problem for nurses is the only guarantee that health care will be quality in our Republic. In this way we will be able to be available to patients, in this way that you have considered this law you have shown that it is not in your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98793	We are going to amendment number 68 of MP Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98794	The amendment is not accepted. Taking into account the tasks and public authorities of the health chambers, the current solution under which the membership of health care professionals in the health chambers is required is assessed by an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98795	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98796	I'm not happy with your answer. This is one stupid explanation. Imagine to me as an economist when I still want to move forward, which in this law determines that a doctor must be a member of a particular chamber, can't advance, imagine that I, as an economist, apply for promotion for a regular professor and they say listen to me, you can't go on because you're not a member of an economist's association in Croatia, that and that. So this is illegal. A man graduated from medical school, specializing, and now he's made something impossible for him? Well, in this country, these things must be offered free of charge if the doctor is going to be a member of this chamber, one or none of them. Well, I guess we live in free Croatia, but this bill shows that we don't. So we change Croatia, listening to primary healthcare doctors strongly advocates something like this not only for them but for all doctors. But to take another chance to say something, you see, respected Croatian citizens who follow this transmission never had this much revenue from around 24 billion kuna. He's never had this many doctors, there's never been more emigration on the other side, and therefore the reduction in the number of patients has never, rarely, been when or perhaps never had such long lists. We see that the system is really in bad shape. But why is it still working? Well, thanks to these good people, doctors, nurses, health personnel working on the basis of humanism, they still have souls in them that are preserved in these areas. But the system can't rest on it. These people must be motivated, they must have the wages of a decent man in the 21st century to have a health system, the health care of a decent man in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98797	Amendment No. 69th of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98798	The amendment is not accepted because, in accordance with the Law on the hire and purchase of a business space, the criteria for determining the height and lease for a business space owned by a unit of the regional self-government or a legal person owned by it are also included in the mostly owned business space of health homes in which the health activity is carried out, are also determined by the decision of the representative body of the unit of the regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98799	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98800	You see, so far, that question has been handled by the Ministry. Now, the key question has been asked why someone has come up with the idea of setting the lease price for a contract office or the term of private concessionaries so far to regulate local administration and self-government. Well, not by chance, until now, the ministry has protected the meaning of doctors who have contracted private concessionaries, protected them from the will of local powers, politicians, mayors, mayors, and now they surrender to them. And I warn citizens, don't be surprised if the number of doctors starts to decrease, if the number of clinics in health homes are reduced, which are rented by private concessionaries precisely for these reasons. Therefore, the party Change Croatia by listening to suggestions and understanding the weight of doctors in primary health care proposed an amendment that requires that the rent space in the home of health for doctors who have contract offices be determined as one kuna. Dear citizens. For decades, you and I have all been singled out by means of contributions to building health homes. It's nobody's private property. Therefore, we give both home doctors and private concessionaries the same conditions that the masters will have, and thus we will have if the concessionaire has a cheaper rent and he will be cheaper, therefore, less burdening the health system, he will be able to earn something more, he will be more motivated, they are so normal, reasonable, logical solutions but here it is seen that everything depends again on the political will of local powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98801	Amendment No. 70th of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98802	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is as in Amendment 69.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98803	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98804	So, however we turn, we see that politics still wants to remain firmly in the sphere of health. There's no such thing as luck. That's why this law, he's not any reform law, he's making some small, small changes, I'm on second reading when the debate praised some of his advantages like mobile primary health, mobile offices, etc. In areas where people don't have, they're not connected to other settlements, and I commended it. However, the latter is either not touched or as this issue of renting space in health homes to private concessionaries is poorly solved or will make the situation worse. Let's keep it in writing and what's going to be recorded and heard today, my people are sure to have erosion surgery in primary health care in areas where people move out and doctors have fewer patients. They can't handle those costs. And now imagine that in that place the local mayor or the mayor because it's not that doctor member of his party or doesn't support him or won't listen, he's assigned a high-ranking rent to him. He can't take it, and he's gonna have to go abroad, he's got to live the same way. And what will patients do in that space? May only dear God help them then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98805	Amendment No. 71st relegator Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98806	The amendment shall not be accepted because of the need to carry out previous procedures prior to the submission of an application for the performance of health activities in the office, which shall be deemed appropriate for a period of 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98807	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98808	Here's what you see, respected citizens, this is what I don't know anymore, and I don't know which amendment in a row is being rejected. But one Bible association fell upon me, perhaps our health minister was struck by lightning as Paul’s persecutor and became St. Paul. Maybe during this debate and maybe for the next few days. Well, Mr. Minister, when it comes to health care, our people's treatment, we're on the same side. But let's start listening to arguments. You're in HDZ, I don't blame a coalition, I'm from Change Croatia. Well, health care isn't a party, it's a party problem, and that's why I can't understand that these good, useful suggestions are being rejected with such ease. Please think about this one more time, there's until tomorrow, it's not too late for these good proposals to be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98809	Let's go to Amendment No. 72nd re-legislator Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98810	The amendment is not accepted, due to the need to carry out previous procedures, which is estimated to be appropriate for a period of 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98812	You see, it's not good that part of it is rejected, but I want to say it again on this occasion and warn our citizens that they know it, they feel it, they don't, they don't feel it, they never feel poorer and weaker, but when he's sick and comes to the waiting room, the poor one comes down to the chair and waits to tell him what's going to happen. It's true, we've all been through it once or twice in our lives. That's why primary health care is the base of these health pyramids. And what is our health pyramid, respected citizens? She instead of being set up like this, and that her base is primary health care where she works the biggest no. The doctor, she turned upside down, and in primary health care for the smallest no. A doctor, and in hospitals the biggest no. Doctor. So over the past 2-3 decades in Croatia, secondary health care has turned into primary health care. So when you come to hospitals you feel that half the city or place you live is sick, you can't find a parking lot, and during that time primary health care is neglected. Well, my people, these are so visible, clear logical things, but what's wrong here? There's no political will to punch someone in the table and say no more of this kind of health care. And what else can I say? Well, we have solutions, so you can see that we have solutions, but who doesn't want solutions? Well, no politicians who are in power now. And you know why? Because when we fix the health system, then no one's gonna call him on the phone, he's not gonna pull his sleeve, listen, give me a hand, you got there, and then he's important. When he stops being important that way, he doesn't exist. We wish that such politicians no longer exist in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98813	We are going to the last 73rd amendment, also represented by Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98814	The amendment is not accepted, and the reasons are the same as in Amendment 69.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98815	Here, this is the 17th amendment that you refused, and I'm sorry that it is, I want to tell the public the respected citizens, you see that we've made a great effort, we've proposed the 17th amendment, they've been made by top experts doctors, meaning primary, secondary health care, university professors, so, top experts and intellectuals. What does all this show? This shows that arguments and knowledge and discipline are not respected in all of this. But we will not surrender, the party We change Croatia, insists and will fight for the health system, because it is one of our key priorities and one of the issues of the survival of the Croatian people in this area. It is a matter of national security, and above all, the good life of people and every man living in the territory of Croatia. So I urge you to punish all those who treat the health system in the next election, who have reduced your rights, who threaten your health, who have allowed such a huge outflow of health personnel abroad, who are increasingly leaving themselves alone. You've heard and seen the previous ones, on the other hand, that so far have pleaded as opposition when it comes to health care. Well, you see them today, they're almost gone in the Parliament. But, lucky for the opposition, and the party to change Croatia, as you can see by the 17th amendment, is increasingly showing that the leader is in the programming sense, the programme leader of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98816	This brings us to an end on amendments that the applicant did not accept, and we will vote when the conditions are met, which I hope will be tomorrow. I thank the Minister. Now we're going to the Final Proposal of the Health Protection Act, the second reading of P.Z.E. No 379, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Ivan Lovrinović, representative Miranda Mrsic, MP club of HSS, representative Željko Jovanovic, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Club of Representatives of the SDP, Club of HDZ Representatives. The review of the amendments was sent to you by electronic means and the amendments were made manifest at yesterday's session. We are now moving on to a vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. There are 67 of them, and in line with the request of the HDZ Representatives Club, which was agreed by the SDP's Representatives' Club in informal consultations, I propose that we vote manually. Do you agree? It's 67, it's going to take a long time, if we're going to take an electronic route. Well, since no one has objected, I think we've accepted that proposal, so let's go then. The first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is not accepted by the Government. Who's up for that amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 2. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. The government doesn't accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98818	.../Strenja Linic's intrusion: I mean, you don't know who votes:/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98819	.../Intruder Bull:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98820	You got it. Tell your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98821	Thank you very much. Can you tell us how many parliamentary deputies have voted for this amendment now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98822	You got it. Okay, I can't tell you how much /Speakers speak at the same time/... [[Intruder Bull: Whatever can't, so this is not a circus you've made, these are amendments seriously saved, I ask that you]] All right, well, we'll start over. /Speakers speak at the same time/... [[Intruder Bull:..you and SDP decided that we will not vote]] We'll start over from the first amendment. I pray to the gentleman who counts the votes to come to the gallery /Intruder: Too important a law to get to the gallery,... [[/Intruder Bull: We can vote, so we better vote manually.]] Comrade Lovrinović, here you go. ... [[Speakers speak at the same time, not understood]] Please let my colleague Lovrinovic speak. [[Speakers speak at the same time, not understood]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98823	Your Honor, Mr. President. Maybe I haven't been able to hear if this is the kind of voting system crash or what? If it isn't, then please don't, we want to know exactly who it is, how many votes is Za, vulnerabilities, to avoid any manipulation. Why are you changing this system, say, what's the reason? So you're running a manual vote, you're saying it's faster, so what do you need this system for if it's faster? Turn off this electronic system, please return to this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98824	I just have a problem, because the gallery isn't yet our voter, so we're going to vote electronically, so let's keep it going. Let's start over. Amendment number one, MOST Representatives' Club, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number two, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3, MP Ivan Lovrinovic, was not supported by the government. Let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4, MOST Representatives' Club, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5, the MOST Representatives' Club, Independent Lists, did not receive government support. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th, the Most Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th amendment, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 8, the HSS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 9, counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 10, MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 11, MP Ivan Lovinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12, MOST, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 14, MOST, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 15, Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 16, the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 17, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the number he needed. Amendment number 18, accepted. Amendment 19, Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 20, Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 22, MOST, independent lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23, MOST, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 24, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 25, has been accepted. Amendment 26, SDP Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 27, MOST, Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 28, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29, the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 30s. The Club of Representatives of MOSTA Independent Lists Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 31. The Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists has been partially accepted, but the applicant does not accept and request a vote, so that we vote on an amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 32, the same Club of Representatives the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the number he needed. Amendment 33, MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 34, the HSS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 35th, the amendment has been withdrawn. 36th. Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 37, Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 38, Bridge of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 39th, the bridge of independent lists, the one not won 38th, 39th, the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 40, the same Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 41, has been accepted. The amendment 42, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 43rd, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 44, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 45, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 46, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 47th Amendment, Zeljko Jovanovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 48th Amendment of MOST Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 49th Amendment Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get enough votes. The 50th Amendment, Ivan Lovrinovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get enough votes. Amendments 51 and 52 have been accepted. Amendment 53, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 54, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 55, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 56, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 57th, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 58th, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 59th, Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 60, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 61st, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get enough votes. 62nd, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 63rd, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 64, MOST's independent lists are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 65, the Most Independent Lists are not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 66th, Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 67th, MOST of Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 68th, Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 69, Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 70, the same MP, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 71st, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. In 72, the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. And in the last 73rd, the same MP, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Health Protection Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 21 votes were abstentions and 18 votes against the bill on health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98825	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we now have 2 final proposals of the Health Resorship Act, since they are similar in character or similar areas, and this is the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, Second Reading, and the Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation on Medical Products and the EU Regulation on In vitro Diagnostic Medical Products. I suggest, with the previous agreement of the clubs, that we bring these two discussions together and discuss a united debate. Do any of the present representatives mind? There isn't. Thank you very much. So we're uniting these two points of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 380 - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medicinal products and Regulation (EU) 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 381 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the competent Committee on Health and Social Policy. I ask the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic, to give us an additional explanation of these two final proposals of the Law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98826	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives and MPs, if you will allow me, I will, in fact, make a proposal together, noting that these laws were on the Assembly Committee of Health this morning and indeed within a few minutes we all agreed that we had nothing to change in particular, or that it was something that was logical to do. Therefore, the final draft law amending and supplementing the Drug Act plans to ensure the rationalisation and financial stabilisation of the health system through regulation of the price of prescription medicines. The final proposal for the Law would establish a new system of pricing prescriptions, similar to those in most EU Member States, in such a way that the Agency for Medicinal Products or Shortcuts HALMED, and medical products, determines the highest permitted price per prescription on the Croatian market, and calculate the prices regularly published on its website. At the same time, the Institute, or HZZO, would allow for more favourable pricing of medicinal products with the marketing authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicinal products and thus include new medicinal products on the list of medicinal products of the Institute and would allow healthcare institutions in the Republic of Croatia to obtain, purchase and purchase a medicinal product, which is not listed on the list of HZZO medicines at a defined price which must not be higher than the maximum price of the medicinal product calculated by the Agency. In fact, a standard of technical amendment of the Legislative Committee has come here, where, in Article 6, in Article 188(6), in front of the word consent, the word preceding consent is added, which I believe is correctly suggested and that this amendment should be accepted. This is about the Law on Medicinal Products, and the Law implementing EU Regulation 2017/745 on medicinal products and EU Regulation 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medicinal products, in fact, it is about harmonising with European Union regulations on in vitro diagnostic medicinal products, which determines the competent authorities and their tasks, the exercise of controls and the regulation of appropriate infringements that sanction non-compliance with the provisions of the Regulation on medical products. Namely, one of the key aspects of achieving the objectives of this Regulation is the creation of a European database for medical products, EUDOMED, which will increase the availability of information for the public and healthcare professionals, and increase coordination between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission. The EU and the European Commission. The final bill will establish stricter control of medical products and in vitro diagnostic medical products, thereby increasing the level of protection of public health and safety for Croatian citizens using medical products and in vitro diagnostic medical products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98827	I thank the Honorable Minister for these additional reasons of the bill. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, after the entry into force of the new Public Procurement Act, which would in some way be lex generalis in relation to the Drug Act, which would be lex specialis and the introduction of an economic and most favourable offer. There's been a lot of discussion by pharmacists, by a health care association. So I'm wondering if with these amendments and additions to the Drug Act, it's actually collapsing the Public Procurement Act with the drug law in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98829	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98830	In no way is there a problem with the Public Procurement Act and what pharmaceutical houses, big drugstores reacted, that's normal, they're people who fight for more prices and fight for profit so that's all to respect. We're actually opening up a space to buy at lower prices than we're buying drugs now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98831	I thank the Honorable Minister for his reply to the replica. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleagues of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98832	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, once again, I welcome the minister and associates. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products is one in a series of laws that, under the cover of compliance with the provisions of the EU Directive, introduces a set of unspecified legal provisions for which several sublaws will be required to be amended. But such acts are then directed by current ministers, do not go through any parliamentary verification and can have a significant impact on the spirit and sometimes even on the letter of the law. So, what are the proposed amendments and additions to this law? Are there any essential reasons for its adoption and what are the quality solutions that allegedly ensured the financial stabilisation of the health system and the regulation of the drug market? For this change to the Law on Medicinal Products, we do not find a foothold in the recommendations made by the European Commission that the authorities in each EU Member State have the authority to regulate the prices of medicinal products that go to the burden of a Member State while full freedom of competition should be allowed in respect of all other medicinal products. The recommendation makes no difference in drug registration status. The proposed amendment of Article 188 indicates an incursion to the freedom of competition without legitimate State or public interest. The Agency for the Protection of Competition confirmed by its opinion of 14.5.2015 that HZZO and thus the Ministry of Health, which oversees the work of HZZO, are obliged to take into account the application of rules on the protection of competition and the amendments in Article 188, extends to the regulation of the prices of medicinal products and to that segment of medicinal products that are currently in the free competition. We point out that, in the light of the draft law on amendments to the Drug Act, no explanation has been given to an amendment, which is inappropriate in view of the significant effects in the area of freedom of entrepreneurship and competition in relation to medicines not financed from the state budget, i.e. compulsory health insurance. The applicant states that these HZZO provisions allow for more favourable pricing of medicinal products with marketing authorisation holders, for expensive innovative medicinal products, and for the resulting inclusion of new medicinal products on the HZZO list and for higher availability of medicinal products to patients. With the provisions of the current law as well as the rules which were adopted on the basis of it, HZZO had the possibility to negotiate more favourable prices for medicinal products that are included in the list of medicinal products by the very existence of basics, meaning the free and supplemental list of medicinal products, namely the free and supplemental list of medicinal products, those where patients compensated for the difference between the price covered by HZZO and the one by which the MAH was included on the list of medicinal products. In addition, in the inclusion of expensive innovative HZZO medicines, there is still the possibility of concluding special contracts with authorisation holders with which it could achieve a more favourable price. Following this proposal, the law does not offer anything in this area that has not already been made possible by the existing regulations. The basic problem of drug policy in Croatia is not at all related to the existing provisions of the Drug Act, so it will not be resolved by these amendments and additions to the law. The most important problem is the implementation of the current system of pricing and return. Furthermore, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices shall be fully unnecessarily introduced into the system of calculating the price of medicinal products. Supposedly, how this will establish a new system of pricing medicines is absurd because it is not a new system but a change of technical nature. This will not ensure any financial stabilisation of the health system or the regulation of the drug market, all necessary measures and are now prescribed but their implementation is disputed as already indicated earlier. The proposal highlights only two measures of drug policy, maximum price determination and contract conclusion. All other measures, in particular those key measures, are not at all highlighted, and there is an impression that the entire system of price fixing and the return of medicinal products will only be aware of these two, in particular, marginally stated in the draft amending the law, and this will instead create a procedural and price chaos in the system and consequently significant financial damages instead of stabilisation. In the area of medicines, it would be much more appropriate for HZZO and the Ministry of Health to focus on the rational management of the list of medicinal products in such a way that they only apply what is already prescribed, such as holding deadlines for the annual price calculation of medicinal products, regular, quarterly inclusion of new generic medicines and similar measures that will lead to and reducing the cost of HZZO for medicinal products, while reducing administrative efforts both by state administrations and marketing authorisation holders. We believe that the main problems related to the determination of prices and the transport of medicinal products are not subject to the proposed changes to the law, and that there is a great risk that the amended regulation will have a negative impact on the well-structured part of the system related to the determination of prices and return for medicinal products in the Republic of Croatia. We are also very concerned that the change in the model is proposed to have extremely negative implications for the domestic drug industry, and without a clear contribution to the effectiveness of the health system in Croatia. Finally, a possible disorder of regular supply to cheap but voluntarily significant medicines would present a major public health problem. The bridge of independent lists cannot support the adoption of this Act because, unfortunately, this proposal is a classic example of how its advantages are, and this is a quality medical certificate, a developed environment for clinical trials, the existence of a local... which, in the field of price regulation and the return for medicinal products in pharmacies, has shown a way to successfully rationalise costs, and instead of developing a positive climate that would contribute as quickly as possible to the arrival of new innovative therapies on our market as if we are trying to close the door to everything advanced and create solutions that lead to large market players bypassing our country, resulting in a decreasing quality of health services and direct and indirect loss of jobs in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98833	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja for this debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Vlatko Kopic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98834	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today facing the second law of the Ministry of Health Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drug Act. The proposed amendments to the law plan to ensure the financial stability of the health system and the regulation of the market for medicinal products. And the proposed amendments to the law would also establish a new system of pricing prescription medicines and who the marketing authorisation holder intends to place on the market in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposed amendments to the law would establish a new system of pricing prescriptions in such a way that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices determines the highest price per prescription on the Croatian market and that the calculated prices are regularly published on its website. At the same time, the Institute would be able to arrange more favourable prices for medicinal products with authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicinal products, and thus include new medicines on the list of medicinal products for the institutions, and healthcare institutions in the Republic of Croatia would be able to obtain and purchase a medicinal product that is not placed on the list of medicinal products for a defined price not exceeding the maximum price calculated by the Agency. Of course we commend this way of working and this way of thinking because ultimately, as is said, it allows for certain healthcare institutions to obtain medicines at a cheaper price which is certainly a big and important thing, because in today's debate there have been a lot of complaints and a lot of notes about how health institutions definitely in their total cost have large separations for medicines. Finally, savings are important because it is important to stress that no additional financial resources are needed to implement this law in the State budget in the Republic of Croatia. According to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of a final proposal for amendments to the Drug Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98835	Thank you. The debate on behalf of the HDZ Club will continue, a respected colleague, Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98836	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The final draft law implementing EU Regulation 2017/745 on medical products and Regulation 2017/746 on invitro diagnostic medical products is before us. These Regulations also establish the reliability of those data obtained by clinical trials and the protection of the subjects themselves. As the minister himself has said what is important to us here, it is important to create a database for medical products aimed at increasing the transparency and availability of information for the public, but also for healthcare professionals, as well as increasing coordination among members and facilitating the flow of information. In the previous debate in the first reading, we made it very clear that my colleague Jovanovic and I are medicines, which are medical products and are in vitro diagnostic products, so I would no longer repeat it. What I would like to point out, in any event, is what is extremely important to us with this Final Bill proposal, which is that all of these products, whether they are medical products or in vitro diagnostic medical products, must pass the conformity assessment process. And this process will not only go through products or medical, or in-vitro in certain situations. So this can happen if it comes to those products that are of great interest to public health, to the safety and health of patients. It is very clear that the application of these regulations through the law defines how clinical research is conducted, who is carrying out the costs of a clinical trial, the way in which the subjects are explained how clinical trials are conducted. And what's very important is what we talked about on several occasions in this assembly when it comes to vaccines, the very adverse events of vaccines that are being reported to the Agency for Medicinal Products. So this law provides, or we bring, stricter control of in vitro medical diagnostic products, which is extremely important to us for public health, and that is why we, as the HDZ Club, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98837	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Josic. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98838	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers and co-workers of the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law we believe that the provisions of the amendment or the adoption of a new Law on Medicinal Products are good for the Croatian health system. I would refer to one segment that I think is particularly good about separating the issue of international reference to the price of medicines in relation to domestic reference which is actually a procedure for the HZZO practice of international reference that is located in a dislocated other agency or institution in this case the proposal of this law is that I consider the Croatian Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices to be a positive shift for the simple reason for the administrative burden of HZZO this has been too much of a bite to be meaningfully and well done every year as necessary and in this way international reference will be very well done in HALMED and domestic reference in HZZO. What is an open question that is not regulated and defined by this law is the question of the methodology of international reference that I assume will be regulated by the Regulation. In particular, practice in Europe or the world and especially in Europe is very different from country to country, it is a highly sensitive methodology and the choice of reference country to which prices of medicines are referred, but it is also a sensitive issue to determine whether the average of countries that are reference countries is or are taking the lowest price, and the third is finally important how they form so-called. large groups of medicines whether it is referred to at which level of the ATC group of medicines, which I assume will be at the level of the regulation according to it in the high level of the Ministry of Health and that is something that will be under the watchful eye of both the public and the professional. The way it will be because, according to the HALMEDA report on drug consumption in 2017, we see a major explosion of drug use extremely expensive medicines have record volumes compared to previous years, and this is the issue of both their prices and their ways of determining them is particularly important, and ultimately the HZZO administration will have more time to deal with the way in which the price of medicines on the list or the way they are paid by the HZZO and thus come to a better and better quality price of medicines because yet Croatia with its purchasing power far exceeds the prices that it should pay in relation to other countries that purely because of its size and volume have significant cheaper and more favourable conditions for the supply of medicines than it has. Here, therefore, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law and also this second Law on Clinical Studies to comply with the laws of the European Union, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98839	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleagues of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98840	Thanks, I'm gonna keep going because I wanted to make a few more notes about this law. Therefore, the applicant does not offer any over-explanatory explanation for the introduction of an administrative double step in the process of calculating the price of medicinal products except for a thin argument in the fact that prices of newly registered medicinal products are not defined when arriving on the Croatian market. Therefore, a number of medicinal products are placed on the Croatian market in accordance with a centralised procedure whereby the European Medicines Agency and the European Commission’s marketing authorisation are carried out by an expert scientific assessment of the medicinal product documentation, and it is valid for all Member States of the European Union. This procedure is mandatory for medicinal products with new active substances intended for the treatment of HIV, cancer, diabetes, neuro degenerative diseases, auto immune diseases and other immunological dysfunctions and viral diseases. Therefore, medicinal products obtained by biotechnology, e.g. genetic engineering, advanced therapy medicines such as gene therapy, somatic cell therapy or tissue engineering, and medicines used to treat rare and severe diseases, etc. .../incomprehensible... medical sales. The same centralised procedure is possible but is not mandatory for medicinal products representing significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or granting authorisation in the interests of patients in the European Union and for generic medicinal products of centralised approved medicinal products. In this case, the decision of the European Commission makes the medicine available on the Croatian market and the fact is that there is no price and it is not regulated by anything, patients pay the full price of the medicine because there is no cost for HZZO until the medicine is found on his list of medicines. The Agency's introduction into the system of calculations further bureaucratises the system and restricts the freedom of trade in medicinal products in a situation where it has no impact on the costs of the public health system. This process only increases the risk of individual authorisation holders becoming reluctant to supply Croatian markets at unacceptable prices. On the other hand, publishing the price of the medicinal product for the Croatian market may reduce the availability of the medicinal product for patients who could have obtained it at potentially favourable prices from another EU Member State, and again without any positive or negative impact on the Croatian public health system. Secondly, in all Member States of the European Union, the comparative price benchmarking system which is intertwined shall apply. Thus, the prices of medicines in Croatia are calculated on the basis of the published prices of medicines in Italy, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, and in some countries Croatia is also a direct or indirect country of reference to the price of the medicinal product, taking into account that some countries have provisions to which reference is made by 3 or 5 EU member states with the lowest prices. Therefore, given the above-mentioned publication of the prices of medicinal products by calculation of the Agency for Medicinal Products, and prior to the inclusion of the medicinal product on the list of HZZO, there is a situation in which the Croatian price of a medicinal product is available and open to reference in other countries, and without benefit for the MAH in Croatia, because the practice shows that while the product is not included in the list of HZZO, there is negligible traffic in the country, which is due to the inability of doctors to prescribe such medicinal products, which is due to the financial inability of patients to obtain such a medicinal product. And thirdly, in a situation where there is a publicly published price of the medicinal product and there is no guarantee that the public insurance company will. HZZO lists the product at the same price, opens the risk for the MAH to make its medicinal product available throughout the European Union at a price valid in Croatia and may be significantly lower than the price it offers in other Member States. Therefore, no serious company will engage in such a thing, especially bearing in mind the experience of working with the Croatian administration where the prescribed 90 days for decision-making may rarely become 190 or 290 days in which the authorisation holder is exposed to loss and there is no guarantee that HZZO will ultimately grant him the inclusion of the medicinal product on the list. So these few examples again demonstrate the sad fact that the ruling administration has no contact with the real world and does not even understand its own regulation. Furthermore, Article 17 states that the words “basic or supplementary list of medicinal products” are replaced by the words “list of medicines of the Institute”. This can be interpreted as eliminating the existing methodology of determining the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products. The consequences of this return to a system which generated a rapid increase in drug costs in pharmacies by around 700 to 800 million kuna annually, which has remained at the same level since then, by introducing a basic and supplementary list. Therefore, those provisions are included in the proposal to amend the laws after the completion of all the necessary procedures, neither on the working group nor on the GSV nor on anyone proposed them during the public debate. These provisions of Article 17 were submitted only in the proposal to the Parliament without indicating who proposed them, what the objective of the amendment was and what consequences would arise, and therefore I will be against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98841	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. Next debate, respected colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drug Act. As I have already mentioned before all possible disagreements over the collapsing of the Public Procurement Act and the Drug Act you have explained. The aim of these amendments is therefore to ensure the rationalisation and financial stabilisation of the health system through regulation of the price of prescription medicinal products. What I wanted to mention briefly in the debate is what is somehow missing in the Croatian health system. So, I'm going to take an example of the largest psychiatric hospital in Sparrow's psych ward. It is therefore a form of packaging. We still have a situation in Croatia that the biggest packaging at this point is 30 tablets for diazepan. So there is also a question of the Croatian Medicines and Medical Products Agency, but also of the Croatian Health Insurance Agency whether it is regulated by some regulation, such as the Regulation on good practice in the transport of medicines on a large scale, I do not know, but therefore the question of the form of packaging at this time, as far as I know, there is no possibility that the hospital will order a pack containing a thousand tablets. Of course it could be realized. There is also a need to develop a system model for the distribution of single therapy. So, what a separate doctor prescribes pharmacotherapy for that day, that prescription goes to the central hospital pharmacy and then the treatment agrees on a specific day. This reduces the possibility of medical errors. It is almost completely eliminated and thus the patient’s safety is increased. So, rare are hospitals, as a bright example, we can highlight Dubrava Clinical Hospital. It's definitely not going to work for the pharmaceutical industry, but I think that the moment that we're being negotiated in a wholesale form, so what we're ordering in the wholesale is the hospital's retail packaging again. So, the moment there's a pack shape where there's going to be more pills that pharmaceutical industry reluctantly agrees to do that. So I'm going to take an example of a preparation given to opiates addicts in some countries has a liter pack, and this pharmaceutical company in Croatia has just agreed because they only pack 10 milliliters, it agreed after negotiations on 100 milliliters, although they have this preparation of a thousand milliliters. I think that if we promote the system model for the distribution of unit therapy as it exists in a central hospital pharmacy at the Dubrava Clinical Hospital, that in this way, maybe this investment in large clinical centres will initially require additional funding, but in this way we will definitely reduce and rationalise additional costs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98843	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98844	Thank you. Here's fellow Cellic you were talking about rationalization in the consumption of the drugs themselves. Well, according to the latest data in Croatia, about 5.8 billion kuna is spent on drugs, of which more than half a million kuna goes to unrecepted consumption. How will you through this law make savings for our Croatian citizens in this segment without prescription drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98845	I thank my colleague Josic. My colleague Cellic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98846	So here, I think it is a large majority and representatives' clubs supported, I think that the Croatian Medicines and Medical Products Agency, which, in cooperation with HZZO, will contribute to making the price of medicines as affordable as possible, so the way I negotiate seems simpler and we think that this will, in that way, lead to a legitimate reduction in the cost of medicines.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98847	Thank you very much for your answer. Next replica, esteemed colleague Vlatko Kopić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98848	Here's a respected colleague of Celic, I'm glad you're thinking in a good way when we talk about giving patients individual medications in hospital institutions, there's a lot of savings, and I have to say that KBC has already had a few years of established practice that in our medical institutions, especially in oncology patients, we have the possibility that we should be able to distribute more and more, and in the exact doses we treat our patients, and not to spend these large doses which can be said to be a huge savings, even from some other institutions have come to us to see what forms we're doing, how we've well formed, so I appeal to other institutions, I'm sure that the Ministry of Health will recognize it or recognize it, and soon there will be now sterilisation of all medicines to know that when I's the hospital medicine that I come to an institution, which is day and in which the patient's dosage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98849	Thank you. Answer, fellow Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98850	Here is my colleague Kopić, I am pleased that you mentioned the scales of KBC Osijek where you are Deputy Director, so in this way the separate supply of medicines is reduced to the necessary minimum, so this significantly reduces the consumption of medicines. We at this point in the large majority of Croatian hospitals have a situation that 1/3 of the supplies of medicines in the central hospital pharmacy and 2/3 are on the so-called. separate dumps. So I'm leaving my department again, and the patient who's taking a certain medicine comes along, the cardiological medicine, a certain diabetes medicine, pulls out the whole box, leaves after 7 days, leaves another 20 pills, and then runs out of time, and this way, with this model of the system, the distribution of the single therapy system, it greatly decreases, thus reducing costs by a large percentage in hospital systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98851	Thank you, colleague Cellic, for your reply. The final word on behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98852	I actually want to thank everyone who participated today once again and say that all the proposed amendments will be considered. I would also like to thank the representatives of the SDP who have recognised that these two laws are good and useful and that they will support them, and I also thank the representative Celic, this advice on the packaging of medicines, we have already recognized it in Dubrovnik when I was the director and, of course, we will now also bring the same amount of savings and benefits to the Croats, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98853	I thank the Honorable Minister for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on these two agenda points that we've united. Once again, I thank everyone for the debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr Milan Kujundzic, Assistant Minister William Berus, State Secretary to Mr Tomislav Dulibic, Mr Velibor Dracula, Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mrs Dubravka Jadro, special adviser to Minister and Ms Kramaric, Head of the support sector and for further explanations and answers to parliamentary questions. Thank you very much. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this we exhausted all the agenda points for today, we continue tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for the Law on Wires, second reading, P.Z. 357. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 17.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-18-0.u98854	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, second reading,... Did we get a good look at that? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It better have been manual. But I didn't say, no one knows what I'm talking about yet. Let's move on, final bill amending and supplementing the Drug Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 380, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. [[/Intruder Bull: Can we do it again?]] The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted by the proposing representative and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Drug Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 101 for, 3 abstentions and 13 against the law on amendments and additions to the Drug Act.
