ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80047	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I want a good morning. We continue with the work of the plenary session with: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 314; Proposer of Act Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in accordance with the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings and the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate on the basis of Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I call on the motionary, State Secretary, Mrs. Andrej Metelko Zgombic, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80048	I thank you, dear Vice President of Croatia, MPs and MPs and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament. The EU and the Latin American and Caribbean countries have had a special relationship since the establishment of a strategic partnership at the first biregional meeting at the top of the heads of state and government in Rio de Janeiro in 1999. A community of Latin American and Caribbean states that has been gathering 33 Central and South America countries and the Caribbean since 2012 is a bloc partner and EU spokeswoman in the process of strengthening inter-regional dialogue and cooperation in all areas. At the 6th joint summit in Madrid in 2010, representatives of the state and government of the EU and Latin American, the Caribbean states decided to establish a foundation that would be an instrument for strengthening the relations and achieving the partnership of the two regions and the EU-LAC Foundation established in Hamburg in 2011, then as a body of German civil law to conclude an international founding contract that is now before you. Negotiations on the conclusion of the EU-LAC International Foundation Agreement began in 2012 and at the EU-CELAC summit in Brussels in June 2015, an agreement was initialled before you. The agreement was opened for signature during the meeting of EU foreign ministers and CELAC on 25 October 2016 in the Dominican Republic and was subsequently opened for signing in Brussels as of 1 November 2016. The Republic of Croatia signed the Agreement in Brussels on 30 November 2016. The objective of the agreement is to establish the EU-LAC Foundation as an international organisation with legal personality within international and public law. The Fund is one of the most important tools in achieving a partnership between the EU and its Member States and 33 countries with 600 million inhabitants from the Latin American states community. Its main objective is to strengthen and promote strategic biregional relations, strengthen the visibility of regions and support, the participation of civil society in different forms of cooperation. The Foundation connects economies, academic community and other segments of society by creating a network of contacts between the EU and CELAC in the field of higher education, science, technology, innovation, infrastructure, small and medium enterprises, climate change, culture and others. Croatia is particularly important because it includes co-operation with the region in which 500 thousand people of Croatian origin live. In the agreement itself and in the Management Board of the Foundation, the Republic of Croatia will be presented to its representative and will participate in all their activities and the implementation of this Agreement itself will not require the provision of specific additional funds in the state budget as the funds of the Foundation are collected on the basis of voluntary donations. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for your attention and I am available for further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80049	I thank the secretary of state, Ms. Metelko Zgombic, for this explanation of the bill. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80050	This is going to go under the radar, but it's actually a good opportunity, and given what we discussed on the board yesterday, there's a budget, these foundations, cooperation between the EU Member States and the Latin American countries and the Caribbean will be formed on a voluntary basis, so the state will give, as well as many other budgets for this type of activity. International states will contribute to this budget voluntarily, however, as we heard yesterday, there are few not large, there are several million euros in that budget, however, depending on how much will be used, how effective this instrument will be, the budget will increase or slowly disappear if no one uses this cooperation instrument. It focuses on what is often referred to on special occasions in political relations, but it is actually a little bit of work. Culture, Science, Education, the civil sector of the NGO and the extent to which Croatia is ready and able to use these funds, select people or institutions who will apply to this form of cooperation, to this extent we will use and to which the instrument is generally popular among the Member States on the one hand and on the other, the whole foundation will actually live and make sense. The club of course GLAS and HSU will support the ratification of this signature that we have already given to the formation of the foundation but we suggest whether it is within Parliament, whether it is within the Government, the MVEP, to form at least someone or who would be responsible for us in some way and using this foundation, so that this information comes to cultural institutions, to universities, to schools, to NGOs, and that in the instrument that is ahead of us and that we will definitely ratify, there is room for that communication between Croatia and the EU Member States and the Caribbean and Latin American countries that sometimes seem distant and in fact from transition to laxation between delicacies and democracies have a lot of similarities with us, of course, and people who are in different periods of 19 and 20th century from our regions there go away, but in fact, there is a lot of security that we have a lot of confidence that we have here, and that we have a lot of courage. Of course, we have political, administrative issues that are related here but they are not solved by the formation of such a foundation but by other channels, but let us try to use what in this series of trusts for our institutions and individuals can be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80051	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary and colleagues and colleagues from the MVEP, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement establishing an EU and Latin American and Caribbean Foundation which, as we heard from the State Secretary, is an initiative that was launched long ago at a summit between the EU and Latin America in Lima, and then a formal decision on the establishment of that foundation was made in Madrid in 2010. Croatia was also present at the government's level at the time as a country that was in accession negotiations with the EU. The temporary foundation has already begun its work because it registered under the German law in Hamburg in 2011 but the registration and that work is temporary because it was then expected to negotiate and sign the international agreement. This was finally done when the agreement was initialled in 2015 in Brussels and then opened for signature after a summit between the EU and Latin America in Santo Domingo in 2016. As we have heard, there are several of these objectives of this foundation created by this agreement, which is primarily to strengthen the partnership between the EU and Latin America. The contribution of civil society to this partnership at different levels, therefore at academic level, in an economy with a particular emphasis on medium and small entrepreneurship, culture, technology, innovation, better knowledge of the two regions and visibility of this partnership is then also a priority agreed between the heads of state and the Government of the EU and Latin America. This partnership between the EU and Latin America is also not new, it dates back to 1990, so 33 countries from Latin America and the Caribbean and of course the EU are trying to make political, economic but also, of course, technological and perhaps future and ever bigger on the security plan, as well as to start seeing Latin America, perhaps with other eyes and as a demographic tank and for Europe, although it may be too early to talk about it that way and perhaps still be sensitive. But for the Republic of Croatia, I think it is important to recognize it through this agreement, especially that part of civil society and better knowledge among peoples and peoples of the EU and Latin America, all those links that exist between Croatia and this region, primarily created by Croatian emigrant communities in Latin America, as we have heard, there are over half a million people in Latin America who are of Croatian origin. Of course, economic relations are important, although on this plan, there are already some other instruments that the EU has, such as contracts with Mexico, such as the agreement currently being negotiated with the Merkusura countries. But cultural exchange and academic cooperation are extremely important. It may be important here to stress that at this very moment, the delegation of the Croatian National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is visiting South America and trying precisely in the framework of these objectives mentioned in this Agreement, to agree this cooperation between our academic community, our academic institutions and academic institutions of the Latin American countries, because they see both a certain future and one additional value, where our academic community can contribute, and also gain a certain benefit from knowledge and people, primarily not only of Croatian origin, but also of the Croatian impediment that live today in Latin America. This demographic potential is extremely important and therefore I think that in the framework of this agreement and the implementation of this agreement, apart from the work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, it would be good to connect the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Ministry of Demography. In any case, here is the HDZ Club to support this ratification, an agreement on the establishment of the EU's international trust fund and the Latino community of the American and Caribbean states.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80053	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier for this debate. The next debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I, too, welcome the secretary of state with my associates and, of course, the SDP Club will support this bill. We have already discussed it on the board, here and today, therefore, in a political sense, it is only useful for the Republic of Croatia and we certainly support it. In technical terms, I agree with the arguments that have been made, that we must give him one operational implementation, that is, to facilitate all interested institutions in Croatia or in associations, to make contacts through these new channels that this new contract gives to people in Latin America, that is more than half a billion people living in Latin America, so much in the EU, a great space for cooperation. I must say, and Mr Stier encouraged me to do so, when he also told Mrs Pusic that academic institutions have a nice opportunity and a chance through these models, cooperation, to make contacts and their co-operation. We are all with it, we are all aware of it, we have a big problem in Croatia with the drain of people, especially young people, young families, we have fewer and fewer students in Croatia. You can see that in public colleges, you can see it in private colleges. The quotas that public colleges prescribe or write to them are no longer as fulfilled as they once were, while private colleges more have problems with enroling new students, or simply students in Croatia are becoming less and less. This agreement may be a good opportunity, too, a good form of cooperation with the Croatian diaspora in Latin America, and we heard that there are more than 500 thousand people there, perhaps they are interested in coming to their homeland, studying, getting a little better acquainted with Croatian language and Croatian culture firsthand, so I certainly don't think this is empty paper and it's not just one political instrument to get points in public for 5 minutes or 5 days. It is a document that we ourselves can give him one operational value and deepen cooperation with our diaspora in the context of EU cooperation with the countries of Latin America. And space has a lot of, the initiatives will certainly not be missing, it's just important that people who have an interest use channels that open up with this contract, really do find out about such things, so even the competent state authorities from the Office for our emigrants, until I know the Ministry of Science and the relevant agencies, as well as the Ministry of Economy, should get to know their users with the possibilities of this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80055	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josku Klisovic, for this debate, we have the final word, State Secretary, Mrs Andreja Metelko Zgombic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80056	Here, thank you, I am particularly pleased that during this debate, the value and potential that exists in this contract has been recognised. As many have already said, so at this point, this foundation acts as a foundation that acts in private law, registered in Germany, operates in Hamburg. With this contract, it will receive an international dimension and become an international foundation. However, it is already working, especially for now, to organise various seminars and conferences, mostly in Hamburg and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, is a central coordinating body that already participates in such meetings, at organised seminars and we inform, we include and coordinate and encourage our other portfolios, also to participate in these activities, already certain colleges, so our academic community also participates in some of them. In particular, it would single out the Faculty of Political Sciences, and other resolutions, our Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, are also active and include our businessmen, so this is indeed one excellent framework in which our economies, the scientific community, the cultural community will be able to establish connections, strengthen the framework of cooperation with such a large area, so over 600 million inhabitants. We are fully aware that the Croatian special interest and Croatian diaspora that lives there and through the work of the Croatian Office abroad will also be strengthened through this foundation is the same connection with members of the Croatian people living in the region. And perhaps for the end, the expectation is that this foundation will also shift, boost economic co-operation between the EU and the Member States with this area. So far, the EU has been the second trading partner since the United States, meanwhile, has become third in recent years, China has become quite visible in economic terms in Latin America, and we believe that this very foundation will little increase in visibility and remind and boost the connections of that part of the world with their European roots. Thank you very much, and I suggest that the Parliament adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80057	I thank the secretary of state, Ms. Metelko Zgombic. We have one replica, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80058	Dear colleagues, I have listened to this carefully, of course everyone is for that foundation. And there were some from one party of people who kept putting down smoke curtains. We still don't have the censorship of how many Croats we have out there in South America, which are these people, which is their business power. We have an example of people looking for citizenship, it takes three years. For example, a man from Venezuela has graduated from all colleges, works in the largest companies,... He can't come here, he's been waiting for three years, the last stop is the Blackie where the former UDBA was implanted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have 2,000 unsolved cases in Chile, of 500 for citizenship, it's been standing there for years, intentional sabotage and this all sounds great, we're like the Pentagon and in reality the intentional sabotage of returning Croats to their homeland of former personnel from... The regime and this is just one small detail of it, of course, this is a step forward but it is unacceptable that for 30 years we haven't had the censorship of the Croats we have outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80059	I thank my colleague Glasnović. Do you have an answer, Secretary of State? Here's a reply to the replica, Ms. Metelko Zgombić's State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80060	So the MVEP and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do everything and does everything to enable Croatians living in South America to really make their contact with Croatia stronger, including the acquisition of Croatian citizenship through the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I think that these links are strengthened and through discussions within the framework of the Council established under that law, the possibility of a correspondence vote is also being discussed, and perhaps during the work under this law some initiatives will be carried out on this trail. ... [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80061	Thank you. Comrade Glasnović, please. Do not enter the secretary of state and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in this Visko dom. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80062	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on the establishment of an EU-LAC International Foundation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 314 Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the approval of an agreement on the establishment of an EU-LAC international trust fund, please vote. I find that most of the 107 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80063	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are now two before us: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 315 - Proposal for a Law confirming a partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 316 I suggest that if no one is against the respected colleagues and colleagues, we unite these two points of the agenda into one. Okay, thank you very much. So we move on to the united agenda points. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposer to discuss these items of the agenda according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Foreign Policy. I call on the secretary of state, Mrs. Andrej Metelko Zgombic, to explain the final proposals for both laws, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80064	Thank you. On 10 October 2011, the Council of the EU authorised the European Commission, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, to open negotiations with Australia on a framework agreement that would replace the already existing EU-Australia partnership framework. The negotiations on this framework agreement ahead of you were concluded on 5 March 2015 and the framework agreement was signed in Manila on 7 August 2017 by EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini and Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop. The purpose of the agreement is to establish a partnership between the parties, to provide a framework for facilitating and promoting cooperation through a wide range of areas of common interest and to improve cooperation in order to develop solutions for regional and global challenges ahead. In this context, the parties reaffirm their commitment to intensifying high-level political dialogue and reaffirming the common values and common principles they will promote, support through their bilateral relations which form the basis of cooperation. The decision of the EU Council of 29 September 2016 on the signing of this Agreement also laid down the possibility of the provisional application of this Agreement in those parts concerning political dialogue and cooperation in international and regional organisations, so that cooperation within the framework of the EU's common foreign policy security, which, of course, Croatia participates in. The implementation of this law will not require any additional financial resources and will be used in the framework of the regular budget of the bodies participating in the implementation of this Agreement. A very similar contract is a contract that is also before you, it is about a partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the EU again, Member States on the one hand and New Zealand on the other. The decision to initiate the procedure, the conclusion of the agreement was taken by the EU Council on 25 June 2015, opening negotiations with New Zealand on this framework agreement replacing a joint declaration in the EU-New Zealand cooperation relations concluded and signed by 2007 and which until then was the framework for the regulation of relations between the EU, its Member States and New Zealand. Also, the EU Council Decision of 29 September 2016, when it decided on the signing of the international agreement itself, agreed and established the possibility of provisional application and is now applicable again on 12 January 2017 in those areas of political cooperation between Member States and the EU on the one hand and New Zealand on the other. When it comes to political cooperation within international organisations, regional organisations, within the framework of common... consultation and consultation within the framework of the common security and foreign policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agreement will contribute as in the case of Australia, strengthening partnership, speeding up and deepening political and economic relations between the EU and individual Member States and New Zealand, as well as mutually strengthening strategic relations and improving co-operation at bilateral, regional and global level. Nor will this contract require specific financial resources but the funds that are regularly provided for in the budget of individual authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80065	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Just one piece of information, respected colleagues and colleagues, behind these two united agenda points, we have on schedule a item on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to appoint a top state attorney. Since the meeting of the Committee on Justice is under way, if, by the end of these two united points of the agenda, the Justice Committee is not completed, we will move to the point of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, second reading, P.Z. No. 257, just for the information that you know how to prepare yourself if you don't happen to finish the Justice Committee in the meantime, we'll go with that agenda item. Thank you. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much, I open the debate, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm a colleague of the Ministry. So, these two agreements, one between the EU and its Member States and Australia, and the other between the EU and New Zealand countries, are in some way refreshing or setting at perhaps an even higher level and more intensive co-operation that has already existed on the basis of two frameworks of the agreement, i.e. framework partnerships or framework partnerships agreements from somewhere in the mid-2000s, 2008. These new agreements are not the kind of agreements as we have ratified with Canada, so they are not as comprehensive and specific as I say they are, but to a slightly higher level, they raise the possibility of cooperation between the EU on the one hand and these two countries, which are often placed in international classifications in that group of Western Europe, North America and so on. The rest are very often Australia and New Zealand, so let's say so often in the United Nations classifications of New Zealand and Australia join Europe and North America because of the political system, because of the tradition of political culture, the model of the economy, therefore, some fundamental values, which represent all these otherwise geographically distant countries and areas, but are valuable in many things that are close and overlapping, so you will see in these agreements, that with education, culture, economic cooperation, etc. Cooperation in civil society, cooperation in the field of security and the fight against terrorism also mentions the issue of human rights, improvement, the situation with and protection of human rights in certain countries, judicial co-operation. So a whole series of topics from me would say some common civilization achievements in regulating decent society, not just defining interstate co-operation. With this population, we are, of course, interesting both of these agreements, there's room for us to work together, there's room for us to work together on the topic, which is now quite, somehow in focus and modern, but we've done a little in this area, and these two countries are doing a lot of work in this area, and that's the issue of climate change and climate change response. Croatia as a country with a long coast which represents one key element not only socially and in any other respect, but also economically for us, is a country in all respects, but especially in this problem of global warming and sea level growth, very interested in co-operation with Australia and New Zealand, which has made major shifts in this area. Among other things, by working with small island countries both here and Australia and New Zealand in view of their neighbourhood, the neighborhood means something else, so countries very far away, still in the Pacific are considered their neighbours, for which the issue of global warming, climate change and sea level growth is not an abstract issue of the future, but is a direct, daily issue of survival. And once a man sees the extent to which they are entitled to New Zealand and Australia in that area, they have gone far and wide in research and in certain legislation, in certain ways to combat climate change, i.e. trying to get them under control, to protect the environment in such a way that these climate change slows down, we see to what extent cooperation with these two countries for Croatia would be particularly interesting in this area, because there is a lot of talk about it, we are actually quite lagging behind, and often it seems to be some distant coast, i.e. some distant problem from us, which directly does not reflect on us. In this cooperation we have opportunities in this area to absolutely improve our own approach to climate change, not to speak about the topic of combating terrorism, something which is of course particularly interesting for Europe and the issue of security, which are, the topics that come here on the agenda. As in the past case, culture and education are also mentioned here, so those areas where we and the countries of this profile can only profit. And finally in the area of culture and regulation in this regard, let me mention just one small detail, let's say, that Croatia legally regulates which is a naturally beautiful country, interesting for making films, how it regulates the possibility of making films in Croatia and how New Zealand does it. This is something that we may need to use these cooperation agreements directly to copy and benefit from the many opportunities that are being opened there. It's a question of cooperation in culture, but it's also a question of smart regulation, which in this respect New Zealand went far ahead of us, so it's also something we can profit from here. Thank you very much, the GLAS and HSU Club will support the ratification of these two agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80067	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate, we are moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80068	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I warmly welcome the Secretary of State and her associates and co-workers from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The HDZ Club will support draft laws to confirm these agreements. The State Secretary made it very clear and loudly clear what all these agreements bear and what good it brings to the Republic of Croatia. I will just say that this is one of the few examples, which may need to be propagated to the Croatian public positive for Croatia when it comes to the EU. So Croatia does not have enough resources to deal intensively with Australia and New Zealand. I will only briefly read the economic data, so Australia where we have very many Croats as emigrants, we had exports of 23.6m euros in 2016 and imports amounted to as much as a million and 400 thousand euros. So much for Australia. Speaking of New Zealand, exporting 10.3 million kuna or if you want 1.37 million euros and import was... thousands of euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I say that? Because such an agreement with Australia or New Zealand can be positive for the Croatian economy, for Croatian institutions positive because we do not have the resources to deal with New Zealand or Australia. But we can and we talked about it yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Policy. We can ask that, in future EU agreements and more Croatian interests, we have a specific case with Australia. We still have an obligation to request visas for Croatian citizens while on the other hand the citizens of Australia do not need to ask for a visa when they want to visit the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, to conclude, in these times of growing skepticism in relation to the EU these are two agreements that are positive, they should be adequately advertised in the Croatian public as well as confirmation of this foundation when it comes to Latin America. There are mechanisms that Croatia can and must use effectively when it comes to the EU. And that is why I conclude once again, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the ratification of these two agreements. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80069	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of SDP's representative, respected colleague Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80070	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's to not repeating what my colleagues have said before what I agree with. Just to find out that the SDP Representatives' Club will also support these two agreements, their ratification because we consider them useful for our country for similar reasons as an agreement with the Latin American countries, so deepening cooperation, enabling people to get closer together. And Australia and New Zealand are also members of the Western European group in the UN, they are part of the same value circle as we and the leaders of many of the global initiatives that Croatia has supported. So further cooperation through these formats will certainly be useful for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80071	I thank my esteemed colleague, Joschko Klisovic, for this debate. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80072	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, co-workers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. So, as we could therefore hear in the opening statement, there are two agreements before us, so the framework for cooperation between the EU, Australia and New Zealand. So, as we heard in the introduction, they regulate many areas of this cooperation, areas of external security, global development, humanitarian aid, in the area of security and justice, in the area of education, culture, research, innovation, energy, transport, etc.. All of this, therefore, from the EU's position of closeness with Australia and New Zealand, since Australia and New Zealand as settlers countries and societies that build together in respect, so identity and nation and culture and closeness with the EU that builds up the community, in fact respecting the identities of their own nations and cultures, are therefore the values shared between the EU and Australia and New Zealand. If we add also values concerning democracy of human rights to safeguard world peace, the development of democracy, etc., so many of these are issues that connect these two groups of countries. As for threats to world peace, Australia and New Zealand, together with the EU, share in synergy, primarily in order to limit the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction but also other threats to world peace and order. As regards therefore co-operation to prevent the most serious crimes, therefore crimes against humanity, war crimes, Australia has also shown credibility in cooperation with Croatia by handing over its citizen to Croatia for war crimes charges, hence the country, therefore the country, and the two countries with which cooperation should continue. Now, terrorism, so terrorism is what I would say today, and here I am speaking as the physician of the most dangerous virus of the modern age. Given that terrorism has now taken the form of a pandemic of the world and the global problem, globally only it can be solved and, of course, the cooperation of the EU, Australia and New Zealand is certainly very welcome. As regards co-operation with Australia and New Zealand for Croatia, this is particularly important with the position of supporting the involvement of the international association. It is known that Croatia is currently aspiring to join the OECD, so that is, I would say another rare, important, global association whose Croatia is not a member, and surely Australia will be of great help to us, of course, in many other areas when cyber challenges etc. But for Australia, that is, for Croatia, Australia and New Zealand are also important from another point of view, which is therefore, Croatian emigration in these countries and we have already been able to hear about it, that some 44 thousand Croatians, born in Croatia and about 133 thousand persons of Croatian origin live in Australia today, and it is estimated that about 300 thousand people who have Croatian roots live in Australia, if we add this to New Zealand, then that number is significantly increasing. So, the Croats in Australia and New Zealand have shown, of course, great commitment to their homeland and at the time of gaining therefore, independence or personal inclusion in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, or financial, and after the war, of course, by participating in the development of the Republic of Croatia, contributing in various ways or as investors or as athletes, let us remember only Viduka, Jo Šimunić, who made a great contribution to Croatian football and globally. And we are also proud to see our countrymen defend and paint their other countries of Australia such as Mile Unit, etc. As regards cultural cooperation, educational cooperation, etc. Australia also proved to be an example. Australia is the first country to be in '93. The Croatian language was recognised as the official language, and last year, 50 anniversary of the Croatian language declaration was marked in Australia. Although our Ministry of Science has not yet established, therefore, official relations, intergovernmental, interstate, therefore, this cooperation in education and learning of Croatian language with Australia is reflected at the level of university cooperation, with the support of the Ministry of Science and Education, as a central state office for Croatian Croats, so, in Sydney, at the University of... A 25-year centre for Croatian studies has been launched and larger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, although relations, bilateral between Australia and Croatia, are not yet regulated by all powers, I hope that this agreement will certainly contribute, therefore, to encourage it. As far as trade is concerned, colleague Kovac has already talked about it, it is not particularly impressive, but here it is,... Therefore, that Croatia has a positive trade balance with Australia, i.e., it has surpluses and they are certainly large, it is great to say, the area for cooperation and this agreement can also contribute, and in particular, since it has already been said that these are both, therefore, maritime countries, which have a large maritime border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian ports could therefore be the entry ports for goods from Australia, the smallest hand for the north and southeast of Europe. As for other forms of trade cooperation and economic co-operation, I believe that this visit by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, recently in Australia and meeting with the highest Australian officials, as well as with our emigrants, will give an additional incentive to improve co-operation. But there's something that's up to us. So, I don't think Croatia has taken advantage of the full potential of our diaspora in economic cooperation, but also in the involvement of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and therefore from Australia from New Zealand, in the social political life of Croatia, here I am primarily thinking about gaining citizenship, staying in Croatia, etc., etc. Although the law on foreigners, which on the proposal of the committee that I am chairing, is an amendment, which says that a Croatian on the part of citizenship or without citizenship, cannot be considered as a foreigner in Croatia, nothing has yet been implemented. So, at the implementation of that law, and today we have examples, I will only change one example, so the board came forward with a request from the family... who wants to play in Croatia, 17 years old whose father has Croatian citizenship since '95. Sir, but the problem finally turned out to be that in his wedding list, uh, priest, instead of John, he signed in to Ivica, and now he should change his document. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think bureaucratic inertness here also repels our people from more involvement in economic life, etc. As regards economic cooperation, as chairman of the board, I decided to propose to hold a thematic session at the next meeting of the Committee, which should treat the issue of economic cooperation on the route of the Croatian diaspora Croatia and I expect that the main word will therefore be kept in this thematic session, in fact, by people who come from these areas, which are already involved in Croatia's economic life. And in the end, or at the beginning, therefore, the exercise of the electoral right, our people is a burning issue, which is in fact plagued by our emigrants and, in fact, this right, therefore, the right to vote, one of the fundamental human rights, for those people outside Croatia, who are not properly regulated, because I believe that a serious debate should be brought about and when it comes to changing the Constitution, the choice of legislation, to allow our people to vote for Croatian institutions, therefore, the same rights as the Croatian citizens who live here. Therefore, at the end or at the beginning, I actually support this agreement, it will certainly be an additional incentive, enhanced cooperation through the EU, and Croatia with these countries, therefore, with Australia and New Zealand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80073	Thank you, dear colleague Ljubic for this debate, we have one replica, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ljubic, I find it quite inappropriate, as an example of good cooperation between Croatia and Australia from all culturalists, businessmen, politicians, scientists etc. To mention Jo Šimunić, who is in the extreme line even sanctioned for embarrassing his country on the football field, Croatia with his behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80075	Thank you, answer, dear colleague Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80076	I'm surprised, in fact, I'm not surprised, since I know who this replica comes from, this remark, however, I am Jo Šimovica, in fact mentioned in the context of his huge contribution to Croatia, Croatian affirmation, in the field of sports, and that's what I want to actually see the contribution of our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia, and so I leave the rest of things to everyone, world-class and ideologically to make to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80077	Thank you for your response, dear colleague Ljubic, we are moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow one suggestion, comment, comment, suggestion, I don't know what to call it in the right way, but the point is next. Today, we are talking about an EU agreement with Australia and New Zealand, and it is likely that such agreements with other countries or other groups will be in the future. What I think should be incorporated into these agreements is that the EU, as a whole, performs as a community of modern states, which respects the same rights, has the same standards, regardless of current economic diversity, i.e. unequal development. On the other hand, in order for such agreements to be reached, I think they should also include countries with which strategic agreements are signed, cooperation agreements, that they should accept these European standards, i.e. to put a provision into place in these agreements, to abolish visas or not to abolish visas, but uniformly for between those countries with which the agreement and all EU members are signed, or to abolish double taxation that is unequal to one country to another. Or other standards, or other values, that should be considered. Especially since today, the EU is a free market, so that when we have a provision that it can be reached in one EU member country, without a visa, it is difficult to continue to control the movement of these people entering the EU, in other Member States, and I think that these are also difficult circumstances. On the other hand, while we are talking about visas, then Croatia is in a double unfavourable position here, because on the one hand visas have been lifted, at least allowing a tourist visa, namely, it does not need a tourist visa, for the entry of citizens of Australia into Croatia, and our citizens still need to look there in one way or another. They objected to these visas being cornered. the two motives are kept under control, i.e., approve or deny from one side, in order to limit immigration flows, and on the other hand to control and or reduce the dangers of security threats, i.e. terrorist threats. I think that in both cases, if we compare Croatia with other EU member states, on the one hand, I have a migration problem, unfortunately, but we are at the capacity of one of the smaller, few countries, and as far as this other security problem is concerned, Croatia is obviously a more stable or safer country than in this respect was Germany, France, Great Britain, which has the problem with domicile terrorism, which is not the case in Croatia. Therefore, what I would advocate is that Croatia's official policy advocates that in such agreements that are signed with individual countries outside the EU, and this is about strategic partnership and relations, to be integrated, I mentioned these two, but perhaps some other elements, which would then equate this performance and equalise the values that the European Community shares and where all members are equal, i.e. must be equal, I said independently about their economic development. In this context, future agreements should be initiated on the Croatian side to sign, taking into account these indicative values, not only in principle, but also in their change and implementation, when it comes to relations with individual countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80079	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, we have one replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80080	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, you have actually touched a very interesting topic, which is very important to Croats who are in the overseas countries, it is an agreement to avoid double taxation and I would further extend it to another agreement on social or health insurance. It's something that bothers our emigrants the most. And what is very important, when we speak Australia has a signed agreement but we are talking in principle about agreements like this, when they are signed by the EU, and here I am primarily referring to a double taxation agreement with America. Because America will not sign such an agreement with us, until American citizens and American companies have so much activity in Croatia that they find it interesting. That should simply be said loud and clear, but when we sign these agreements, then since they are small, we should insist that what Comrade Tudjman said, that this applies to all countries, and I think simply this debate should be strengthened, regardless of what we have signed with Australia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80081	Thank you, Comrade Shuker, for your response, Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80082	Thank you. Comrade Shucker, the clear thing is that what you said is one of those items that should be entered into these agreements. Because I view a number of such examples, i.e. two and three, as technical standards that all EU members should respect, i.e. those who want to develop, and specific relations with the EU. There would be, there's one line that we can discuss the same, and that's where they are, where the sovereignty of individual states is limited, and then whether or not some of these provisions are introduced into these general agreements. However, it seems to me as I did on these visa waivers. I forgot. [[Intrudica Brkić: I thank professors, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80083	New Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80084	Thank you. Here, I'm unusually glad that this debate reminded us all once again of the abundance of relations that the Republic of Australia and New Zealand have with them, although the remote country is largely our diaspora Croats living in Australia and New Zealand are one solid link that then affects the intensity of our mutual relations. Croatian language, literature and culture are among other things as we heard and accepted at the university, so in Sydney there is news in Croatian that can be heard in Australia, only strengthening cooperation and closeness between the Republic of Croatia and Australia as such. When it comes to judicial co-operation, it is also mentioned, it is also excellent and just in one known case of the extradition of the Australian citizen of the Republic of Australia to war crimes, it has been confirmed that there is a great partnership between our two countries. It may well be noted, therefore, that the case of the handover of Dragan Vasiljkovic is the first case that Australia has ever handed over the person who has its nationality. Regarding economic co-operation, of course, such contracts form a good framework for strengthening economic cooperation, agreements on avoidance of double taxation remain within the competence of Member States not the EU but are certainly an important component of improving economic co-operation. And the government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to propose the conclusion of such a contract with Australia, we have heard that a contract with the United States is being mentioned, we have just been in a very intense communication with the US administration to start negotiations on the contract and they have ended. Finally, concerning the visa regime, there were various comments and suggestions that could be heard during the debate. Australia treats citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as all other EU citizens, EU citizens. So we do not have a formal visa system, but Australia is precisely because it has abolished classic visas towards all EU Member States, including Croatia, introduced this milder electronic way of registering the entry of EU citizens into Australia and this system is called an e-visa given within 24 hours and is not charged. So Croatian citizens and citizens have absolutely the same treatment and enter Australia in the same way as all other citizens, EU citizens. This form of registration is something that, due to all the global security challenges faced by all the countries of the world, has started to think about being introduced within the EU, so we know that Canada also requires a certain registration, an announcement of arrival via electronic means, and the EU itself and Croatia together with other EU Member States are now working on a system where all third-country nationals will, when they enter the Republic of Croatia and other EU Member States, have no obligation to require visas but will have a prior announcement of arrival by electronic means. Here, I would like to conclude these comments on the days of the statements that were heard during the debate, and I would once again support and ask this High House to support the Law of Confirmation and Contracts with Australia and the New Zealand Treaty. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80085	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the closing statement. We have two replicas, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80086	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that you are in a certain way inspired or provoked as you wish by certain discussions in your closing statement you have brought down life and that's good. You have now given a lot of practical reasons in your closing statement, however, to my replica and colleagues Tudjman and you, that if we are a common part of the financial market in Europe, if we are sharing information with America on a common fight against terrorism, then it is logical to sign an agreement that as a member of the EU, we are practically asking that we have the same rights rather than that some agreements with Croatia are signed when a country of signatories feels the need for its citizens and economics to do so at that time. So my initiative went in this direction knowing that every country practically bilaterally signed some kind of agreement. And what is very important is this agreement in social security or health insurance, which is very important to Croatian pensioners, especially as regards South America and North America, because they want to come simply to Croatia to spend a pension and not to go back in six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80087	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. State Secretary Metelko Zgombic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80088	So here is just maybe for the end of the debate, so we with Australia, the Republic of Croatia has this social insurance contract and it is a very important component of the integration and return and arrival of Croatian Croats living abroad and we have noted this comment and link to the double taxation agreement and, as I said during the debate, the Croatian Government is indeed working to reverse negotiations with those countries with which we do not have that agreement yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80089	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. We have another replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is when the secretary of state mentioned this e-visa system for Australia, I can tell you that it is true, this year I applied for an international conference in Brussels in July and when I filled out this form and sent it, I have to say that I was very pleasantly surprised, that within a few hours I received actually this e-visa and that the system really works and that there were announcements and organisers that we would actually wait for a long time for a visa because of the complexity of the procedures, obviously they didn't know that this system was obviously very modern and that it works very well and that Croatia is in the same position as obviously EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80091	Thank you. Mrs. Metelko Zgombić's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80092	Well, here's a thank you for this replica. This only confirms that there is one very easy and easy way to enter Australia and that Croatian citizens are treated in the same way as everyone else and that it is simply a newspaper that slowly enters the modern world, both for notice, at least registering the arrival of third-country nationals in the country. And I say, as such, the EU is thinking of introducing it to all other third-country nationals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80093	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on these two agenda points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80094	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 315. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other hand, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 112 votes for the adoption of the Law confirming the framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80127	Since the Justice Committee has not finished yet, we are moving to the agenda point: - Final draft law on amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 257 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, based on Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for foreign policy. I would like to invite the representative or the representative of Mrs. Andrej Metelko Zgombic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to explain to us the final draft of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Affairs Act will greatly affect the way consular services are performed in the service of the Republic of Croatia. This meets the obligation to transfer to the Croatian legal system, the new EU legal instrument, the Council Directive of 20 April 2015 on coordination and cooperation measures to facilitate the provision of consular protection to Union citizens without representation in third countries. However, this bill also contains some additional changes that we believe will provide both a better and more effective way of performing certain consular functions. It is certain that the quality of consular services provided to those Croatian citizens who find themselves in trouble in countries where the Republic of Croatia does not have their own representation will increase. I remind myself that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines that citizens of the Republic of Croatia enjoy all the rights guaranteed by the EU acquis and one of these rights is the right to consular and diplomatic protection. This law also develops coordination and cooperation measures between the competent authorities of EU Member States as well as cooperation measures with the European External Affairs Service and the functioning of the EU Delegation. The co-operation procedures are simplified to provide consular assistance to a person in distress as soon as possible and thus to protect interests and rights between others and Croatian citizens in third countries where the Republic of Croatia does not have its diplomatic and consular representation and these citizens are in need of consular assistance. I would like to point out that this law does not only regulate the provision of consular assistance in regular consular situations, such as the loss of travel documents, the provision of assistance to victims of criminal offences or emergency situations, but also pays particular attention to the area of consular crisis management. Each crisis scene, regardless of the type of crisis and its cause, requires a rapid response to both MVEP and diplomatic missions or consular offices. The speed and accuracy of information exchanged between Member States' external affairs services and with the European External Action Service are a prerequisite for the effective provision of consular assistance to protect in particular in situations of evacuation of EU citizens from wartime or elemental disasters. According to the European External Action Service, it does not perform regular consular functions because the consular area is in the exclusive competence of the Member States, and its role as the coordinator of the activities of the Member States in crisis situations is important. Dear MPs and MPs, again, I would like to point out that cooperation between EU Member States in the consular area is not a newspaper that will only now be introduced in this law. On the basis of the provisions already in force, the Foreign Affairs Act regulates the way diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia provide consular assistance to nationals of other Member States. However, certain shortcomings identified in practice, which relate primarily to the coordination of the activities of the competent authorities of the state of nationality of the person to whom consular protection is provided and those States providing consular protection, have been removed at our national level by the adoption of this law. Dear representatives and MPs, I use the opportunity to reiterate how the proposed amendments and additions cover several segments of the consular area, concerns the conduct of diplomatic missions of the consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in cases where they provide consular assistance and protection to citizens of other EU Member States, the area of consular crisis management shall be governed primarily by the work relating to the exchange of relevant data with the services of other EU Member States, the European External Affairs Service and the EU Delegation. Financial procedures between Member States are also legally regulated where diplomatic missions or consular offices of other Member States provide consular protection to a Croatian citizen in a third country where the Republic of Croatia does not have representation and where consular protection is provided to nationals of other Member States in third countries by Croatian diplomatic missions or consular offices. In all cases where the consular service cost will be covered by the MVEP, the funds will be refundable. Respected MPs and MPs should be pointed out that the adoption of this law enables more effective provision of consular services to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who reside or are found in those third countries where the Republic of Croatia is not directly represented. This law allows the use of technical and consular capacities of other EU Member States or of the European External Action Service and, consequently, the response of the Croatian consular service in specific consular cases will be more effective. Access to consular protection of those Croatian citizens who find themselves in trouble in which the Republic of Croatia does not have its own representation will be significantly facilitated and the rules of cooperation of the MVEP with the authorities of the Member State that will receive the request of Croatian citizens are clearly defined by this law. The proposed coordination and cooperation measures will intensify the cooperation of the consular services of the EU Member States and cooperation with the European External Affairs Service, resulting in better legal and any other security for both the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of other EU Member States. Thank you for your attention, I'm at your disposal for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80129	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter perhaps want to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues from the Parliament. So the GLAS and HSU club supported the first reading of this bill, which is all logical and good, de facto only strengthens co-operation between Croatia and other EU member states and our diplomatic and consular representations and EU representations. De facto, this expands the network of diplomatic and consular representations that can help our citizens in different situations in which they can be found around the world and, of course, Croatia commits to providing all citizens of all EU Member States the same assistance in situations where they are nationals in a given country do not have their own representation. There are two such cases, one of the regular situations in which people lose passports, lose flights, the possibility of returning, steal their money and stuff that happens on trips, and there seems to be no room for remarks as far as this law is concerned. It's logical that when people come home, when it's all settled, they return the money they're either loaned or they have to pay for a new passport, so that's not the problem. What I'd like is a little clarification and it seems to me that the problem is these crisis or emergency situations. These crisis or emergency situations can be very dramatic, regardless of whether they are war conflicts or whether they are natural disasters or some major accidents and may require rather high costs. So extracting special aircraft, special means of transport in such a situation of intervention by some security forces. If Croatian citizens and citizens of other countries, as it says here, because the treatment is exactly the same for Croatian citizens and other EU citizens, they must return that money and here, in one place, in Article 15k, writes a form that defines it, the return of money has the power of an executive document. So, does that mean now that if they say you're being pulled by military planes from a situation because there's been a tsunami or an attack on that country you're in? You sign a form to compensate for the costs that can be in hundreds of thousands of euros and more. And you sign a form that has the power of an executive I.D. In other words, they'll sit you down for it on your salary, pension or real estate, the property you've got. I suppose that can't be the case, but please give us an explanation of how this crisis management will regulate money. So as for the return of funds and the signing of documents to which such assistance is provided, whether it is a Croatian citizen or a citizen or a citizen of another EU Member State, so how will that return be regulated which, as defined here, sounds actually quite frightening since it is potentially very large funds. It is mentioned that this will be done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or by the relevant ministers, I suppose, in other Member States of foreign affairs, to regulate it by some special regulation. I remember that we talked in the debate about not having to do so, but it would actually be very important to have a clear picture of what is going on in these crisis situations and what kind of obligations people have, will be forced to take over and how they can protect themselves from, say, having such a situation taken away from them for life or property where they were not brought into the situations from which they were to be saved, and then they were then provided with such services. With the assumption of a rational explanation for this inquiry and the comment of Club GLAS and HSU will support this law but I would like to ask that we be explained and to answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80131	I thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go. Before my colleague Kovac starts arguing, I'd just like to ask him for a moment. Up at the gallery we were joined by students and students of the Antun Gustav Matoš High School from Đakov, I welcome them and their professors and professors. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Excuse me, Mr. Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After a thorough debate, the HDZ Club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act, moreover, the implementation of the EU Directive. I also support what counterpart Pusic said to hear an explanation to regulate the costs that could arise in this particular case. But I'm going to say one more thing and it's that I'm glad to talk to you about things in this case that are of the citizens' interest in life in general. When we talk about foreign policy, it's something abstract, people forget that foreign policy is also in the service of citizens. I had the honor of setting up a consular office with my colleagues two years ago to show up in practice that... foreign affairs here to help Croatian citizens in the world, the consular office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am also pleased that there is a state secretary and fellow assistant minister Glasovic, who has taken over as assistant foreign and European affairs minister, now is an assistant foreign and European minister. We also, by the way, will say set up the office for economic affairs and put the focus also on economies, meaning when in the world, as a Croatian citizen, you have the right to get a service when it comes to investment opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, but outside the Republic of Croatia, also seek protection from your country when it comes to various papers. Finally, once again, the HDZ Club supports the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Affairs Act, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80133	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club, as we have already announced in the debate after the first reading, will support this bill, we find it extremely useful. Of course, this is also about harmonising with European directives, but here Croatian citizens receive de facto global consular protection. So everywhere where Croatia does not have its diplomatic representation, unfortunately, our coverage is very small, scarce, therefore, there is a series, a large number of countries where we do not have our diplomatic representation, we will be able to use consular protection that we will get from EU Member States, which have their own representations there. Unfortunately, Croatia and where it decided to open the embassy did not open it, and mostly for financial reasons. So it is not a lack of political will, but a lack of money, and in this sense compensation for our citizens is then a European diplomatic network, therefore, a diplomatic network of all other EU members. And that's the segment where people feel the real existence of the EU, so it's not just a story, that it's not some distant fund, that it's not just a big political parade, but something that I, as a citizen, of the EU, feel somewhere far away in the world, away from my country, that I have the ability to protect and help in any situation. We know that countries like France, Germany, the UK, until yesterday, have representations in almost all parts of the world. Thus, our citizen can finally feel something more secure than he would have been if there were no such agreement and there was no opportunity to address, therefore, another European State for consular assistance. And our citizens are traveling, whether it's about tourists, going to all over the world, whether it's about economics. We have not even managed to open embassies in those countries where our economy has a great interest, again for financial reasons, but our people go there and there de facto do not have consular protection of the Croatian state, this provides the opportunity to obtain this consular protection. So tourists, adventurers, businessmen and all people who go out, go away from Croatia can come looking for consular protection. As far as emergency situations are concerned, they are extremely important and we have had cases where we had to extract Croatian citizens from crisis areas, such as Syria or Libya. In Syria, we have no diplomatic representation, however, we have an honorary consul, and in Libya we have, but it was equally complicated to draw our citizens out, say, in these situations or from Lebanon before. We are always working with other European citizens, on one state co-operation. And I think that in this case the state is carrying costs or participating, participating in the costs of that EU Member State, which de facto sends in either planes or ships or helicopters or otherwise extracts Croatian citizens. If a Croatian citizen comes into the situation that he has to sign a statement that he will make up for a part of these costs, of course there is also an automatic and constitutional provision that the Croatian state must protect its citizens, their lives and their body, therefore in such cases it is involved to protect its citizens. And the law itself says that the foreign ministry if, on behalf of Vade, on behalf of the state, costs, costs, costs, can be refunded by Croatian citizens. So, it doesn't have to, but I can assume that the assessment will be done every time, given the specific situation, a specific case. And I think that's the answer to the question both Mrs. Pusic and Mr. Kovac, but of course I would like to hear confirmation from the secretary of state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80135	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josku Klisovic, for this debate, we are moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80136	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed secretary of state, assistant minister with a co-worker. Here is the proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Affairs Act, as we have already heard, on a proposal for a law that is in line with the 2015 EU Council Directive and in particular harmonizes the conduct of diplomatic consular missions and offices of their functions for citizens of the Union, without representation in third countries. The provision of consular assistance and protection but also financial procedures are key provisions in the amendments to this law. The flow of time in which the Law on Foreign Affairs was adopted, which was in 1996, brings the need to amend the legal framework for the purpose of modernising the activities of diplomatic consular offices and all foreign affairs services. However, from these amendments and the addition of the law, it is crucial to highlight 2 main provisions, that is to protect the additional interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, where we do not have our own representation, especially which can therefore, in these cases address in other missions and in cases of evacuation, that the Republic of Croatia can use the infrastructure of other Member States. We have already heard here in the debate so far, the issue of financial procedures regarding the conduct of foreign affairs, but hopefully it will be given according to the debate, which was on the Legislative Committee, and that the provisions of this Regulation will further clarify the cases in which the financial damage is being paid and paid. The fact is from our reality, from our environment, but also from all the events in the world, they point out the need to adopt this Act, terrorism, sudden circumstances, war events that we witness, a large number of Croatian citizens abroad or at work or as tourists, but I stress here and the sailors, since I come from a place where we actually have a lot of people working on foreign companies, and they are often in some trouble, calling for the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia to their citizens. What I wanted to ask Mrs. Secretary of State in her final address is that, if I may, further explain to me what the European External Action Service's information is and how this Law actually regulates co-operation with this European service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80137	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici. We have the final word, State Secretary Andreja Metelko-Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80138	Thank you. Perhaps I should start with this last question mentioned that the role of the EU foreign affairs service is co-ordinated. Therefore, it remains in the jurisdiction of each Member State to provide consular services, however, in these crisis situations exactly the coordination of Member States, their consular services are of paramount importance and importance, and in this respect coordination is achieved through the service of foreign affairs and the EU. When it comes to providing consular protection to Croatian citizens in the world and especially in parts where there is no representation of the Republic of Croatia, we do not have a consular and diplomatic service, this greatly strengthens security and provides protection to Croatian citizens. Perhaps just to mention that over the past year 40 Croatian citizens have just used this mechanism that already exists within the EU, and we are further installing and discussing it here, which was not the case for crisis situations, but for those in simple cases of loss of personal documents, when a consular service of another Member State in fulfilling its obligation under this Directive provided Croatian citizens with such consular assistance. Similarly, in the past year, seven EU citizens of other Member States have also provided such a single protection and you see well that such a single mechanism is working on the welfare of all EU citizens. The foreign ministry has provided such additional consular protection to citizens of other EU Member States, however, what the practice shows is that Member States generally do not require compensation for the costs provided to citizens of that other Member State, unless they are significant and they are located in some regular frameworks. When it comes to the form itself, the form itself is an integral part of the directive itself that Croatia builds on and expects and expects from the Member States and is obliged to ensure fast and spot payment. Therefore, such a provision must exist, it is found in the Law. However, there is also a provision. 15. o, which clearly states that a special regulation adopted by a person headed by the EU Ministry of Foreign Affairs will list specific conditions under which protection will not be sought. Therefore, this remains for regulation under the specific Regulation, and you can be sure that this Regulation will follow exactly the practice in which even smaller consular transactions carried out do not require payment, and especially in crisis situations and so far, the Republic of Croatia has provided consular assistance to its citizens in crisis situations and has not charged, so it will not be in the future, and this will then be regulated in detail by this special Regulation for the sake of legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80139	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for this final word. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met. One more thank you to the State Secretary, Ms. Andreja Metelko-Zgombic, her associates, Assistant Minister Ivica Glasnović and Head of the Service, Mrs. Gordani Krpičak, for further reasons of the bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80140	Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on external affairs, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 257. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on external affairs, please vote. I find that most votes, 99 for, 7 abstentions and 6 against, passed the Law on Amendments and additions to the law on foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80141	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 81. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Justice Committee gave a preliminary opinion on the appointment of the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia, the hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. I call on the Minister of Justice to give us an additional explanation of the motion for a decision. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. At its April 17th session, the government made a decision proposing to appoint Drazen Jelinic as the chief state attorney. As we know, the 24.4th term of office to the attorney general, Mr. Dinko Cvitan, and the government is in a position to propose the appointment of a new chief state attorney. We do it, Drazen Jelinić is a candidate, when we have determined how to approach it at all, we first said that we would like it to be a man from the system itself. The state's attorney's office is a huge, big system and it's a big advantage if it's someone inside the system who knows the processes, who knows the personnel, and it was one of the first demands we've ever had. And second request, of course, that must be the person who can handle all the tasks that that function carries. Being a top state attorney, it's not just doing a job, it's not just doing a job, it's, I'd say, a way of life. With these items, with everything that the function carries, you've actually been living with it all day, and it's really extremely complex and difficult. Let me say a few sentences about Drazen Jelinic. He's a man who spent his entire working life in the state's attorney's office. He started with the trainees, he was a deputy municipal state attorney, then he was a municipal state attorney, he was a deputy county attorney, then he was a county attorney, and then he's a county attorney, and now he's a deputy state attorney. He is also the president of the State Attorney's Council, so this is the independent body he appoints, resolves, decides on progress within the State's Attorney's Office, so he is extremely well aware of the personnel structure within the system. We all know as to the segment of the State's Attorney's Office's work, you only had a chance yesterday to discuss State's Attorney's Office's work reports for the period 2015 and '16. A year. We all see, and it's clear to all of us that statistics are excellent, that out of the 10 defendants, 9 ends up with judgments, which is very good, so both urgency and responsibility, it's obviously our state's attorney's office when it's pressing charges, then it's very much going in with a large amount of certainty that it's going to end up and condemning judgment, so it doesn't go into those proceedings where it thinks and where there's some kind of certainty and a great risk that it might end differently. Which is quite all right, is the criminal procedure and the laws that regulate this area penetrate the deepest of human rights as one of the greatest values and freedom itself. As far as perception is concerned, unfortunately perception is very different, the perception is actually that the work of the State's Attorney's Office is unsuccessful, it's measured primarily by those large complex objects that are numerous in progress and where we don't have a court epilogue. I'm here to say, I don't think we can put that on the soul of the state's attorney's office, it's a matter of first and foremost complex and difficult objects where there are mostly a large number of defendants, where we have a large number of evidence stores, hearings, witnesses, artificial arts, and so these objects themselves are quite complex. On the other hand, he is not the only participant of this or the state's attorney, but the participants are also the court who has to make a decision that is rarely returned to the appeal. On the occasion of the Constitutional Court decision also returned to the retrial and, unfortunately, in these large complex cases, very often happens. So all of this is extremely complex and these are huge and huge demands for this function. We have decided as the Government to propose a man from the system, Drazen Jelinić, who has really great references that really indicate that we will get a man who will be able to deal with the tasks of this complex work that is ahead of him and we have a deep faith that the system will work. I want to make it very clear here that this is not an act of enmity towards Dinko Cvitan, and I want to thank him publicly for his truly committed and responsible work in the term of office of 24.4. and Dinko Cvitan, and I personally know how he lived and worked this job, all day long in office, these are extremely difficult and complex objects, but Dinko Cvitan remains in the system, he becomes the deputy chief attorney of state, which is also an extremely high level, and ultimately his experience that he gained will certainly be relevant and will be appreciated because not only that, he also acted as Director of the USKOK before he became chief state attorney. It is clear to us that, in order for the system to work better, and the infrastructure, it is not enough just to set up a chief state attorney, it is clear to us that the Criminal Procedure Act has shown a number of weaknesses through its application, in 2008 we have 7 amendments to that law, it is time to change it, to go with a whole new Criminal Procedure Act and we will do so, we are preparing a basic documentation for a working group that will work on it and that will propose a whole new law over a reasonable period. We need to provide all the personnel and material infrastructure needed to work, I know, I'm aware of the lack and need for the work of people, I'm aware that there are no human beings and we're going to do all that in the next period to improve this system. A good synergy is also important for all law enforcement bodies, from PNUSKOK, from all those who actually work when certain concrete procedures are being conducted. We believe that by choosing Drazen Jelinic as chief state attorney, we will get a new person at the head of this important, important institution, he will bring in, I would say, a new power, a new energy that is needed, and I believe that we will also create better conditions for further work. Thank you very much, and as far as we were before this plenary session, the Justice Committee has also held a conversation with the candidate for the attorney general and as far as I know, he has received unanimous support there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80143	I thank the respected Justice Minister Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic for this explanation of the proposal. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? And we have replicas, I apologize, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80144	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, of course, I'm glad that you mentioned the conditions in which a certain state attorney should do so. But let me have one part, even though I'm not a lawyer to try to make one observation constructive about what should be considered anyway. Namely, the State's Attorney's Office is an independent body that needs to spread the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the State's attorney so. And that's why I have a little illogical provision in Article 100(3) saying that a government attorney can be resolved on a proposal from the government if he does not achieve satisfactory results. That provision is so strange to me, which is satisfying, can they from the government's point of view be different, can be questionable, just what you were talking about both because of the public interest and for everything, because it can happen exactly the opposite that the government is satisfactory if the state's attorney doesn't do his job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80145	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80146	Your Honor, no government can be satisfied if the lawyer she's proposing doesn't do her job. We are in the process of amending and adopting a new Law on State Attorney's Office, we will have opportunities and there to talk about it, but such a provision that was, which leaves one discretionary space for each government to assess whether a job is being done well or not, is very often seen from the report itself. As far as you can see, the statistics here are very good, of the 10 indictments, 10 ends with judgments, and the impression and perception are completely different in statistics, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80147	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80148	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you've actually mentioned one thing that we've mentioned on the board today and I've mentioned and it's about working conditions across municipal state attorneys all over the country and, of course, county attorneys, and I think it's the same to ensure that the greater and better results and the quantitative terms that you've listed, but also those in the qualitative one who, above all, and the public is most referred to and these are the ones that are the media's most interesting. So surely 10 procedures, 9 are solved in silence and the one if it's media profiled, not solved, or delayed, or it takes a long time to create maybe a false impression and there's something I think and the former, now soon the former state attorney and mentioned. I'm just curious and I want to re-absorbed technical preconditions for work and teamwork to take care of people that they are overloaded in one environment, in others perhaps not so much and that I absolutely express all the support that the Ministry... The state's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80149	Thank you, dear colleague Curai. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80150	Thank you very much. We are fully aware of this problem in fact material and human resources that must be at a certain level so that all jobs can be done in quality. In the next period, we will also find space, we will see that we will also fill ourselves in where it is needed, but it is not a problem, unfortunately, of the state's attorney's office itself, but many judicial bodies in the Republic of Croatia are struggling to see through space and wherever possible, wherever we can solve it and to ensure that the best conditions for work are ensured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80151	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, Mr. Minister, let me give you the criticism that you were not in the Parliament yesterday when, for the first and only time in your term, we discussed Mr. Dinko Cwitan's report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia in the past four years. I believe that you should have been here and I believe that you should have spoken, and I also believe that you should have answered certain questions that are a prerequisite for making any measurement decision on the appointment of a new person who will be headed by a state's attorney's office. Since we have not received the answer to the following question, and we have repeatedly asked you, would you please give a clear, brief and summary answer to what was so disturbing in Mr. Cvitan's current term that you suggested that he no longer be the head of state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80153	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80154	I accept the criticism, I'm sorry I couldn't be yesterday, there were other obligations, but you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, I can be replaced by the Secretary of State who was here and the questions could be addressed to him too. But as far as your second question, about what bothered us at Dink Cwitan, we don't mind. We are not Dinko Cvitan, nor have we resolved him, nor have we replaced him, he is simply running out of mandate. There from the people we have seen, we believe that Drazen Jelinić has such references that are harsh and that give us faith and hope that he will bring a new freshness, a new energy that will actually reflect very well on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. The statistics we have during Dinko Cvitana are excellent, as I have already said several times here, of the 10 indictments, 9 ended with judgmental judgments, which is a very good statistic, however, the perception, related to large cases, is not good and it is very simple that we need to actually fill in to get a much better system of criminal processing of criminality in the Republic. So no such act... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80155	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you very much, Mr. Orsat. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80156	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary with your associate. Now, a few days before the term of office of the attorney general, we have a debate, and tomorrow, I also believe in a vote on the election of a new person for that duty. Let me first of all say that, at the very end of the term, so a few days before the term of office, we choose a new person on a particular duty, it is not only in the selection of the attorney general, it is, unfortunately, happening to us but in continuity, and as far as I can remember, it is usually happening to us at the end of the term or even after the term of office. We had the choice of President of the Supreme Court, in fact, what, at the very least, we had the choice of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, now unfortunately the choice of the attorney general. So you're talking about one trend that's not good and above all, so we should stick to the procedure and give enough time to both us and the clubs to have enough relevant information, especially when selecting persons on a very important duty in very important state bodies. And so first of all, of course, our criticism of the Bridges Club, on this procedure which is otherwise, in fact, according to the current provisions of the State's Attorney's Law, is extremely nontransparent. What we have now is the choice of the main state attorney based on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with the opinion of the competent committee and that is the Committee on Justice. And we actually until 2 or 3 days ago, we didn't even know if it would be, whether the government would suggest again Mr. Cvitan for another term on this job or would suggest a new person and from a number of people were media speculation about who this person would actually be, and only yesterday it seemed official to me that it would be Mr. Jelenic. And of course it's not good, and we know that, and because of that, as you said, we're going to change the new Law on State's Attorneyship, with one better procedure, but I think it's logical to express regret, which is the new procedure that will be more transparent, we're not already applying it in the selection of a new chief state attorney, today according to the new procedure. And this new procedure would, of course, include a public tender of the State Attorney's Council, a sufficient time before the end of the term of office of the current chief state attorney, a public tender that could be opened by all those candidates who meet the conditions, a contest in which the State's Attorney's Council would determine the proposals of candidates who meet the conditions with their views on these candidates and to that candidate, of course the Government would have shown about it, but we believe that this would be a much better procedure, as planned for years in advance in collaboration with GREEC, but that is not until today. However, we will wait four more years for this procedure to be applied in the selection of the attorney general. We in Mosto will be restrained in deciding on the main state attorney, but we want to make it clear that this is not a matter of mistrust in a person who is proposed or in doubt that this person is not a quality choice and a proposal from the government. First of all, it is that we were informed about this proposal only yesterday, that we do not really agree with the procedure, which is absolutely non-transparent and in that sense is our abstention. We have no reason to doubt the available information that we both have as representatives and as a club, that it is a professional who is very experienced, which is almost, most of his working life spent in the State Attorney's Office, who absolutely knows the system, which is also the deputy attorney general. All these references are in favour of Mr. Jelenić's election, so it's absolutely not a dispute. You have presented the reasons why the government does not suggest again Mr Cvitan, you said that these are reasons that are about to seek freshness and new energy in the work of the State's Attorney General and we can reflect these reasons for how you brought them out, of course we could have cited these as reasons in the election of each official after a certain term of office. Because after a certain mandate in the State Attorney's Office, it's certainly not easy to work, it's one of the most demanding and responsible duties and we saw here yesterday in the exhibitions, Mr Cvitan and some very emotional statements that it's extremely difficult to do this very responsible job and therefore, of course, it's always possible to talk about seeking refreshment, new energy, but given what you said, a certain continuity in the conduct of that duty. In that sense, we as a club have no objection. What we want to say further is that we should certainly consider not only amendments to the Law on State Attorney's Office and in the process of elections, but also constitutional changes. I always want to remind you in these situations that the constitutional arrangement of the state's attorney's office isn't good enough for us. Both in terms of ensuring the independence and independence of the state's attorney and the head of the state body, as well as the mandate of the attorney general. The fact is, yesterday, Mr Cvitan himself said that he would rather have the chief state attorney have one mandate, and even longer, so perhaps a year more, but that he did not really expect to be re-elected, given the nature of the work he was doing, responsibility, the necessity of maintaining independence towards the government of the Republic of Croatia, and we alone in the debate yesterday pointed out that this independence, even at the symbolic level of Mr Cvitan, had failed, especially given the press conference he was at with the Prime Minister, and we all said that it was absolutely not supposed to have happened that this was at least at the symbolic level led to the question of maintaining independence and independence of the main state attorney. This is of course what we expect from the new chief state attorney, that he absolutely does everything to maintain this independence and independence and not only in perception, but also in real action. Of course it's actually the hardest task given the responsibility of the attorney general. What we also expect is that the main state attorney, and very soon he will probably be in front of us by submitting a report for 2017, by nature of things because he will have to defend this report in some way, and ultimately he is the person who has been in that system for many years, so he knows him very well, we expect that in that report he will concentrate, not on thousands of statistics that we can always find on 200 and more pages of this report, but that he will concentrate on the key aspects of the work of the state's attorney, that in some way he will bring out what we are missing, and that is the work programme, the work programme of him as chief state attorney, that entirely, what we expect to ask of us as representatives of some key priorities for which we are responsible, for example in the legislative sphere. But it was not good to hear Mr. Cvitan yesterday when he said at some point he was responding to one of the replicas that the legislative framework was very bad. So when it comes to criminal law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, other laws, the question arises as to what in fact all the meetings of the Croatian Parliament have done on a continuous basis by changing legislation in this sphere, which is directly related to the work of the state's attorney general when the main state attorney tells us at the end of his term that it is not really a good thing and that he is absolutely not satisfied with the legislative framework. I do not have to accept it as a relevant and accurate fact, but it would be very good for the chief state attorney to be appointed when he comes before the Croatian Parliament to say that there are several important priorities in the legislative sphere which he believes would be necessary to amend in the Law on Criminal Procedure or Criminal Law or some third law. Which would be very important for the more successful and quality work of the state's attorney's office and for the faster procedure, because that's exactly what many of us have resented for the extremely long duration of criminal proceedings, especially in those more complex cases, especially in those Uskobi cases where it was difficult to locate the responsibility or shared responsibility of the state's attorney and judicial branch. And I expect it from the attorney general. I also expect him to be elected for better quality conditions for the work of the state's attorney's office. Because actually if you're looking at the report that we had yesterday to discuss, you have one big section in a report that actually tells you that lack of personnel, spatial, infrastructure conditions are an important reason for failure or insufficient quality of work by the state's attorney. I do not believe that it is impossible to provide quality assumptions for the work of the state attorney's office and USKOK in a spatial sense, in terms of that technical work that is necessary for the work of the state's attorney's office, in order to stop that reason being one of the more important excuse for insufficient quality of work of the state's attorney's office. So with all this in mind, we hope that the attorney general will bring what you think is new freshness and energy, but the fact that it is a person who is a long time in the system of the state's attorney general, the deputy attorney general, the person who has this continuity, in itself, is not the key reason that this person will be very well on the job of the attorney general. After all, four years ago we had a similar situation, Mr. Cvitan was also a person from that system, so he knew this system well, he was a deputy attorney general, but four years later it wasn't enough to be appointed. What we'd like to tell the future attorney general is that he's not considering his next term. Let him do this mandate that suits him, this four-year term with an absolute priority to be independent and independent, to really make quality improvements to the work of the attorney general and the state's attorney general. And after that, together we will evaluate how successful this work was. So, the Independent Lists Bridge will be abstentioned, restrained due to the procedure that is being carried out today and the time seal in which we are brought in, we have no reason to doubt that it is an experienced and quality professional, which we believe will be proven in our work, and in that sense we wish him in every case a lot of success in the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80157	I thank my esteemed colleague Robert Podolonjak for this debate, and we are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, a colleague of the Podolnjak has already said and a lot of debate is being discussed, the procedure is a little coerced in this case, therefore, about the election of a new state attorney. There you have heard enough remarks, I join these remarks, because, indeed, as we have seen from very practical experiences, one of the key functions, however we view it in the Croatian institutional infrastructure, i.e. the ability of Croatia to function as a rule of law. And that is why it would really be necessary to give enough time and space to discuss, talk, with persons or persons who are proposed for that function. In this case, the de facto parliament was largely brought before the final act, with the election of a new state lawyer, and even to this extent that it did not know whether it would be re-election or it would be a new choice. And precisely in such cases, therefore, when it comes to institutions that are an integral part of the judiciary and which form some basis for institutional functioning, then respect and respect for the state, it is necessary to respect the procedure and to give Parliament time to make a decision based on insight rather than on speed. The State's Attorney's job, I think it's clear to everyone and that we've seen from all the events in the last 10 years, is a very difficult job. A job in which this person is all the time, de facto under various types of political pressure, direct and indirect, under public pressure, where there is for obvious reasons a great reason between what is really done and what is perception, and perception, I don't need to remind you too much, since you are all politicians, perception is sometimes more important than facts, because trust or mistrust is based on perception in certain institutions. And given the specificity of this job, I think that the proposal that we absolutely need in our opinion in GLAS and HSU is to be adopted, but at the very least consider, it is to define one mandate for this function, therefore, the proposal in future changes to the law, to define the function of the State Attorney, as a function to which a person is elected for one term. This mandate can possibly be extended to more than 4 years so that it does not correspond exactly to Parliament's meetings, where such instruments are used, it is very often observed that the mandate of a government and one Parliament does not correspond to the mandate, but that this function is defined as a function to which a person is elected for one term, precisely because we do not come into the situations in which we have come now, and that the person who is in that place has a little more support in his independence than the policy that is at that moment, that is, the parties and the people who are in power, because they are not thinking about whether or not to renew the mandate, as is the case now. I think there is absolutely a nature of this job and the nature of the pressure, and even the dangers that the current State Attorney was talking about yesterday would have been appropriate and actually very useful for a state attorney to be elected for one term. There are also logics for and arguments for continuity. So, it is absolutely important that there is a certain continuity from this perspective that is being chosen and proposed by people who have worked on the job so far, i.e. very closely co-operated with the attorney general as is the case here, and as was the case in the election of Dinko Cvitan himself, who had previously been deputy attorney general. However, there is no logic, and I think that what I have stated so far further supports such an attitude, there is no logic that it is necessary to discredit or disabling or in some way reject the current state attorney or the work of the current state attorney to propose a new one, when it comes to this situation of the end of the term of office. So there is no reason not to accept the state's attorney's report as simply a report of work that was not perfect, but Dinko Cvitan was not a bad state lawyer, as I believe Mladen Bajic was not a bad state lawyer and there is no need to reject the state's attorney's reports to propose a new person. Did they have mistakes in their work? Well, of course they are. Have they solved all the burning, dramatic, major scandals in the Republic of Croatia as far as certain cases are concerned? No, they're not. But also before their arrival on these topics, it was not seriously debated, or seriously processed. Therefore, the opinion of us in GLAS and HSU is that we should not reject the person who is so far the work of the person who has done the job so far, in order to propose a new person. According to the logic that it has ruled so far, Mr. Jelinic would have to think that whoever is now his deputy, in fact, will now be working on his head because he will try to position himself so that the next team proposes him when Jelinić's term expires, to propose him for a new state attorney. This, together with a reduction in the resources of the state attorney's office, which is unfortunately voted in this House, is certainly not good working conditions. These are poor working conditions and working conditions that create a kind of built-in impatience or built-in conflict in an institution that de facto performs a more or less independently key job in the Croatian judiciary, so, if you want to do so in the Croatian state. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU Club will certainly vote in favour of accepting the report of the chief state attorney who was discussed here yesterday, but in the case of a proposal by a new state attorney because of the way he was proposed, not because of the person, the person appears to be qualified to do the job, will be restrained, we do not have to spit on what it was to bring something new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80159	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80160	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of politics should not only be to conquer and behave the authorities because this authority must not be a goal, but only a means to enable all citizens to live a better life in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, the government in the Republic of Croatia must not be corrupt. We are witnessing that corruption is eating up our society today. Because of corruption, many young people have stolen the future and older people's dignity. As people who love this country, we cannot quietly observe Croatia growing in the perception of corruption while also slipping to the bottom of the competitiveness list. Because of corruption, people's mistrust in institutions, administrative inefficiencies, the lack of reform of people leaving our country. We need to change laws and prevent corruption, but only laws won't be enough. We are aware that habits must change and we know that it does not go overnight and often takes years to change some attitudes. But we must endure. In order to restore the faith of people in Croatia, we must first of all restore the faith of people in institutions. And an efficient state, good society basically means order and trust. According to the European Commission's 2017 report on the fight against corruption, Croatia is late to implement an important strategy to combat corruption and the action plan for its implementation. The implementation of the Croatian anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 has not progressed either. The government has not yet confirmed its obligations under the 2015 Justice Ministry Action Plan, nor in general the 2016 National Reform Programme. Although the government has put effective control of corruption, particularly in public procurement, concrete steps have not yet been taken. Political shifts which aim only to shift because of infatuation, rather than to improve the quality of the business, contribute to corruption. Examples are just some. The selection of Commissioners and advisers in Agrokor, party and family involvement at Dubrovnik airport, the replacement of the HRT Supervisory Board, the shift at the head of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and not to list any further. So, the government, which until one week before the term of office, does not have a proposal for a new chief state attorney, shows that it does not care at all about the fight against corruption, and therefore we have the right in Croatia to fall citizens' confidence in institutions, the index of feelings of corruption is growing and, according to some surveys, 94% of respondents in Croatia believe that corruption in the country is more than widespread and 58% believe that this feeling is greater in the last 3 years and that corruption has increased and increased. In such an environment, we welcome the selection of a new state attorney. By not getting answers to some key questions. We can't support the election of a new state attorney until we know the real reason Dinko Cvitan has to go. Perhaps because he has launched investigations against coalition partners that allow this government to have a thin majority. Maybe it's because he started an investigation in Agrokor where there's a legal robbery going on. Or maybe because he didn't want to work on the orders of the ruling. But in order for me not to prejudge, I ask this government to explain to us here and to the public what the real reason is for the replacement of the attorney general. We have no reason to be against a man but we are against this kind of choice. without prejudice to the expertise of the proposed candidate for the new state attorney, the question is raised before him. Could he be a state lawyer in the service of law and citizens or would he be a state lawyer in the service of political officials? Perhaps the time has come to change from the foundation the way the attorney general is elected. In the SDP, we believe that the main state attorney should be elected for a term of seven years on only one mandate so that he can complete the processes and that, as a result of the duration of the mandate and if a change of government occurs, he is completely independent of that change in government. We would thus contribute to making it even more independent than politics but also to select a qualified majority of all MPs. So, with 76 or with more than 76 hands for. We want the new state's attorney with special attention to continue to shed light on all existing cases but also on the one with particular suspicion of political corruption because a country without corruption is our ultimate goal. Given the current situation and the unresolved problems that await him but also since there are reasonable doubts about new cases such as HRT, Agrokor, employment by family and party key, controversial public procurement and not counting further, it is obvious that the new state attorney will have a lot of work to do and it will not be easy for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80161	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80162	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister, the Honored Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing the motion for a decision to appoint a top state attorney, but before I say anything about the candidate himself, I am going to say a few words about the state's attorney's own organization, because I believe that this is extremely important for the public who is following our work in order to gain more insight into the very structure of the organisation and its competence and therefore the rights and obligations of the attorney general. The basis for the regulation of the position and authority of the State's Attorney's Office is the provision of Article 125. The Constitution by which it is designated as an independent and independent judicial body authorised to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and to take legal actions in order to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia and to bring legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the right. The Law on the State Attorney's Office which had several amendments, prescribed an organisation of the State Attorney's Office itself, the powers of the State's attorney and the deputy state's attorney, the work of the State's Attorney's Council as well as other areas of importance for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. In addition to the provisions and organisation of the State Attorney's Office, the law contains certain provisions on the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office in the procedures in which it participates as a party. What is important to say is that the way and how certain procedures are established by laws such as criminal, criminal, litigation, litigation and enforcement, administrative, etc., is in fact very important because these are also the powers of the State's attorney, or the way in which these proceedings are handled. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, headed by the Chief State Attorney, shall oversee the work of the entire State Attorney's Office, and shall in particular worry about the orderly and timely conduct of affairs in the State's Attorney's Office. He then performs the tasks related to performances and complaints on the work of the State Attorney's Office, taking care of the professional training of state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, advisors, trainees and other staff and subsistence officers in the State's Attorney's Office, maintains statistics on the work done by law and actually cares and is responsible for the work of the entire State's Attorney's Office. Although amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office have significantly reduced the powers of the attorney general. There is still a perception in the public that the chief state attorney has the right and can decide on every single case and issue that arises within the state's attorney organisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State Attorney's Office relating to the hierarchical structure of the State's Attorney's Office gives him powers exclusively in the area of the State's Attorney's Office. Contrary to such a valid opinion, it is in fact a rule that every state attorney and deputy state attorney is independent in his work, independently makes decisions and is responsible for this work and for decisions in the specific case. Exceptionally, this autonomy may be limited by the Head of State's Attorney's Office or the Head of State's Attorney-General by giving written and reasoned mandatory guidance for the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office, and only when such guidance is necessary for the sake of uniform application of the law. The effectiveness of the State's Attorney's Office also depends on the quality, the way other bodies with which the State's Attorney's Office cooperates and, therefore, when we evaluate the work of the State's Attorney's Office, we need to keep in mind this segment, that is, how effective and other state bodies with whom the State's Attorney's Office is involved, above all, the Ministry of the Interior, but also other state bodies, especially when it comes to the success of the State's attorney's work on civil-government matters in representing the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we discussed reports on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, so we heard some problems within the State's Attorney's Office concerning primarily human resources, material and financial conditions regarding the lack of equipment and space for effective work. We could also conclude that there are problems of overburdening USKOK as part of an organization that deals, so with a lot of criminal acts. And because of this overload, perhaps many times work on the very major subjects that are of particular interest to the public may not be solved as the public expects within that time frame as the public expects. And therefore, perhaps many times the public perception of the effectiveness of this organization is negative. Here today we had on the Committee on Justice and Conversation with the candidate and here I believe that he announced that he would try and introduce some changes in that segment to make it more efficient. The proposed candidate, Mr. Drazen Jelinic, is primarily a professional, as he himself has told himself about the child of a state-law organisation because he has been in the system since 1992. What I can conclude is that he has actually passed all the steps within the state's attorney organisation and in the order that is natural, so that from the trainees through the advisors he was also the deputy municipal state attorney, and the municipal state attorney, then the deputy county attorney, the county attorney, the vice principal of USKOK, and here is now the deputy chief state attorney, so I think this is really the crown of his professional career, and I think it's good to send a message to the people themselves, who are within the state's attorney's organization, that it's really worth being diligent, professional, quality in their work, and that simply this natural rise in his career is something that's natural and follows. Here's all what I said would actually further supplement that Mr. Jelinić, apart from his professional activities within the state-law organisation, behaves and memberships in numerous professional bodies. He is also co-author of the manual for state lawyers, co-author of the manual for the application of the new Penal Code, and author of several publications with topics in the area of criminal law. So, we all see, I think here that and colleagues in previous debates have concluded that it is a very competent and very professional person, a person of broad interest and a desire to contribute, by means of their own action, experience and knowledge beyond the state's own attorney organisation. I think it is very important and good that the candidate from the system itself, well knows this system and people and problems and will be able to take over the duties of the attorney general very well and to act as the attorney general, and I believe that this is good because anyone new to come into this system that is truly specific should certainly take a certain time for him to get to know the system and to see and understand its functioning so that he can act effectively in that system. And finally, I want to say that I have met Mr. Jelinić through the work of the State Attorney's Council for the past 8 months and my personal impression is that it is primarily about a very professional man of great experience in practice, a man who is very thorough and dedicated to what he does, whose state-level law organisation is her success in work and people who work in organization of exceptional importance to a man of particular human integrity, feelings of justice and a man who doesn't easily give up, so he defends his views very well, but he is willing to listen to other people's arguments as well. Although there are a lot of challenges ahead of him, I think he will push himself to respond adequately to them in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens, and I wish him much success. Of course, we will follow the work of the entire state's attorney's office here through the reports, and we will also be able to evaluate that work. And finally, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition who spoke before me, when they couldn't find a flaw in the candidate, objected to the procedures for the election of the chief state attorney, I must say that I don't see any failures, so the procedure is respected as prescribed, the chief state attorney will be appointed within the time limit and I don't see any problems in this procedure being carried out. The HDZ club supports the candidate's proposal to appoint candidate Mr. Drazen Jelinic as chief state attorney and we wish him much success in his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80163	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS Representative Club, HSLS, HDSSB's esteemed colleague Branimir Glavas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80164	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am speaking on behalf of the Club of HSLS, HDS and HDSSB, and immediately at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that this club will not be against the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to elect the current Deputy Chief of State Attorney Mr. Drazen Jelinic for the main State Attorney in the next term. When I say he won't mind, I don't think there's any possibility of someone being held back. So, we'll be in. In this opening work, I spoke on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. In the follow-up to what I'm about to say, I'm speaking on behalf of the HDSSB and on my own behalf. I'm speaking to you colleagues and fellow MPs in this House of Commons. I want to speak to the Croatian public, I also want to speak to the security intelligence agency of the Republic of Croatia, and the reason is my latest presentation in the Croatian Parliament when the proposal of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office was discussed, first reading P.Z. No. 297 whose proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 8 March of this year. I would like to remind you that during my debate in this bill, I have pointed out the serious problem of not conducting quality security checks for officials of state attorneys at all levels, from municipal, county, to the national level of this state-run repressive apparatus. If we want to be a serious state, and I think we all want to do this together, no one can convince me that professional and quality and security checks by officials, state attorneys are not of first-class national interest to the Croatian State. I remind myself that on that occasion, not to mention the name of any DORH official, I have indicated that among DORH officials there is a person who during the major Serbian aggression on the Republic of 1991, in '92. She actively participated in occupatory weapons formations that destroyed, burned and tried to bring down the foundations of the newly created Croatian state. To make things worse, I must stress that it was a person of Croatian nationality. Although I did not mention this person by name and last name, only a day later the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek appeared in a statement to deny my allegations as false and therefore I would like to quote their statement. In that statement, I'm called a liar. No official who actively participated in the aggressor army and attacked the east of Croatia works in Osijek, according to a statement from the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek since 9 March 2018. I'm going to read the whole statement now to make it possible to hear from the DORH. "The internet portal www.jutarnji.hr published on 8 March 2018 a text stating, among other things, that during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, Parliament representative Branimir Glavas stated: how today in Osijek as deputy state attorney in the Department of War Crimes for persons who actively participated in the aggressor army and attacked the east of Croatia. End of the quote from my presentation. In the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, we stress not a single official who actively participated in the aggressor army and attacked the east of Croatia (9.3.2018). However, as it can be concluded from the other parts of his statement that the statement refers to Miroslav Kraljević, deputy state attorney at the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, who works in the War Crimes Department, both the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek for true public reporting, and if this statement refers to Miroslav Kraljević, I publish facts and accurate information with a view to protecting the personal and professional integrity of the appointed state's attorney and the reputation of the state's attorney's organisation. Miroslav Kraljević lived before the war with his family in Šid where, as a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam, he worked in the... He was never a member of the Communist alliance in '98. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was prosecuted for singing Croatian songs in July of '91. After... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian police in Ilock in the centre of Shida... were beaten by members of the Chetnik paramilitary unit of the White Eagles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In late December of '91. He was coerced into the Teo Shida unit where he never left the territory of the Republic of Serbia, nor participated in any kind of war. On that occasion, as a Croatian nationalist, he was to be liquidated along with two other mobilised men, which is the written evidence. After 20 days he was demobilized, etc. I'll skip a passport, it's not your problem, in June of '92. He resides in Osijek looking for an apartment for his family, permanently leaving the Republic of Serbia on September 4th, 1992. where it illegally crosses the border from Hungary, etc. I'm in a bit of a hurry for a while, not to cover something up. During '92. Mr. is one of the founders and first president of the community of refugees and exiled Croats of Srijema... Miroslav Kraljević is on June 15th, 93. appointed Deputy at the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Osijek, by the resolution of then-Minister of Defence Boyko Suška, from 28 June 1995. Based on the war schedule, the deputy military prosecutor was deployed, where he remained until December 6, '96. in the period from '97-2003. held the duties of the Municipal State Attorney in Bela Manastir and has, since 1 December 2003, been appointed deputy of the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek and has held that duty until today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Office of the National Security Council, repeatedly after the security checks carried out, gave a positive belief about Miroslav Kraljević for access to qualified top-secretion data and very secretively, etc. His work has been evaluated every time, and it has been concluded that his state's attorney's office is acting consciously, professionally and neatly. The County State Attorney's Office in Osijek believes that in the past month, the fundamental human rights of Miroslav Kraljević, as rooms of the family man, Croatian defender and as state attorney, have been violated, according to a statement... then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it can clearly and unequivocally be concluded that Branimir Glavas was a liar when he participated in the debate, not mentioning the name of the person concerned, however, the U.S. Attorney General ZDO Osijek recognized it. However, there is obviously this reaction and a statement by the County State's Attorney's Office simply forced me to continue this story until the end. I have knowledge that today's Deputy ZDO Osijek Miroslav Kraljević is still in September of '91. Mr. signed the application for the enrolment of volunteers to the Southern Slovenian People's Army VP No. 3747 PD-623-1761-09-01-1991 at the time of the military secret, confidential. In that application for volunteering,... I quote clearly and clearly, I Kraljević Miroslav was born 26.1.'59. in Sotop Municipality of Šilja Republic of SFRY, with the place of residence in Šola Karadjordjeva 17... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 01452 issued in Supašil has a military deployment of 11207 applying as a volunteer in military mail 37 47... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The spike. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I declare that I will be responsible and disciplined to perform the tasks set and that I will adhere to existing federal laws and other acts and orders that regulate relations and life and work in the Yugoslav People's Army. My application calls me to Shid 9.9.91. Mr. in his own signature, Kraljević Miroslava, and the statement was also confirmed by the seal of the federal secretion for unauthorized... SFRJ armed forces, third management confidential, number 3-2391 of 9.9.1991. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I continue with another document, and I point to the date that I will now say, in the chapter of the document, the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Human Resources, the Staff Office, number 1196-4 of 13 April 2018. The belief is confirmed that the military official Kraljević (name of mother Ljubica) Miroslav JMBG 2601959890049 with home address in Šid Karadjordjeva was born 26.1.'59. in Soto, military post office 3747 code number TO3044/26O Shid was a participant of war. And now it lists, 1st in the direction of the Battle Fact of Shid, towards the Battle Fact Factory Ilač in the period from 10 September 1991 to 30 September 1991 Under 2nd in the direction of the Battle Fact of Ilinci Batrovci towards the Battle Fact Apšinci Lipovac in the period from 25.10.1991 to 20.11.1991, so two days after the fall of Vukovar. And 3rd in the direction of the battle facts Morović and Jamena in the direction of the Strušinci combat fact between 16th 12th1991 and 9th January 1992. The certificate shall be issued on the basis of the official record of the single record of the JK, assuming a single military bond card, page 8, of the regular number 14. This belief was freed from payment of a fee in accordance with Article 19. 1st point 8 of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, official messenger of the Republic of Serbia No. 43/03 and 65/13. The belief has significant credentials in the sense of Art. 29. Paragraph 2 of the ZUP and serves for the purpose of regulating the pension internship, and for other purposes cannot be used in the signing of the deputy chief, Colonel Rade Slavkovic, delivered to the appointed archives. I am obliged to visit those who are weakly remembered, and even faster they forget that Tovarnik gave a huge sacrifice on the creation of an independent Croatian state, that the attack on the factory of aggressor forces was carried out in the period from 19-22 September when Tovarnik was occupied. The factory gave a great sacrifice 27 years ago in the creation of a free and independent Croatia. The names of them, 75 dead on the mention of the mark, reminds them of the sacrifice they made. After the occupation of the village, many people were tortured and barbaricly killed. Women were raped, a large number of locals were taken to Serbian concentration camps, many houses destroyed and burned down. I ask the question, would the Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality who was a defender and a member of HV 1991-1992, if they had moved or moved to the Republic of Serbia, be elected deputy state attorney in the Republic of Serbia? He wouldn't, because he wouldn't have passed the BIA security check, the security intelligence agency, or whatever it was that got her killed. If the accuracy of the knowledge is determined, my knowledge of which I am in possession, I ask that the procedure of his resolution be initiated before the State's Attorney's Council. Once again, I am supporting the new state attorney, chief state attorney Drazen Jelinic, and I am giving him the parliamentary representative and the task of carrying out these checks through the Security Intelligence Agency and other state institutions, and that in the event of the accuracy of what I am saying, the process of resolving Miroslav Kraljević as deputy county attorney in Osijek is mandatory. One detail from the office of today's deputy county state attorney in Osijek, on the wall in his office like a life motto, life password, stands, heroism when we defend ourselves from another, humanity is when we defend the other from ourselves. The saying is Marko Milanov Popovic Drekalovic, a Serb from Montenegro, a folk writer, military leader and leader of the House tribe, in youth, perjanic by the prince of Montenegro Danil Petrovic. It is interesting that Miroslav Kraljević has that very password, that life motto that leads him in his work. Time is a little time-out, so I repeat again, on behalf of the HSLS, HDS and HDSB Club, we support the selection of the new chief state attorney, Mr Drazen Jelenčić, and on behalf of the HDSSB, and on my personal behalf, I remind both the chief state attorney and the Security Intelligence Agency of the Republic of Croatia, as well as all other institutions that were obliged to work to carry out an additional check. They got all the numbers, all the data, as I got to it, I think they can do that part with their left hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80165	I thank Mr. Glavas for this debate. Dear Mr. Glavas, the subject is the proposal for a decision to appoint a chief state attorney, you spoke of certain personnel problems within the state's attorney's office, but in the spirit of democracy I let you speak although the subject is a little different. Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Predrag Matic, please. Then I apologize, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've properly detected one violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's the one relating to the speech outside the subject. However, the officer was injured. In 238, and in the part where the speaker has deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. In fact, instead of talking about the subject, Mr. Glavas took advantage of his almost entire exposure to the difamation of the person who was the prosecutor in the proceedings against him. I think it's something to react to and what you, as chairman, should have pointed out, interrupted him and given him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80167	Dear Mr. Grbin, I've already pointed to Mr. Glavas. My assessment was that I did not want to interrupt it and I do not think the Rules of Procedure were injured, and if you are not satisfied with the answer, please forward your complaint to the relevant Committee on the Constitution. Thank you very much. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Matic Predrag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After the presentation of Mr. Glavas, you said what you should have said before. Namely, either I missed the subject or I don't know what the writer was going to say. We're here to discuss a new state attorney, and we've heard a lot about Mr. Miroslav Kraljević's character and work, which I don't even know who he is, and I don't care about in my life, but if Mr. Glavas wanted to talk about people who are in state services and senior officials, and in '91. They were in JNA and they attacked the Republic of Croatia, and I have to remind him that even in this House there are such persons, and we have them in the government, we have them in other institutions, so I don't think this was the place and time to talk about the related Miroslav Kraljević. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80169	Thank you, Mr. Matice. At the beginning of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should have mentioned an article, which you did not mention. You didn't honor the Rules of Procedure because you broke time, but, well, I let you into the spirit of democracy. I've already given my answer to Mr. Grbino, so that's the same answer for you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, and thank you for your help in holding the session. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Branimir Glavas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80170	... Both Mr. Pedja and Mr. Matic have injured the Rules of Procedure and have abused the Rules of Procedure to give me a replica. [[The speaker didn't turn on the microphone, you can't hear it.]] Mr. Miroslav Kraljević was a county state attorney in my case, absolutely with an indignity I reject that it was one of the reasons I talked about this case. Mr. Miroslav Kraljević has closed the case for me, but this is the truth and background of what is happening in the state's attorney and the new chief state attorney has to resolve this situation because their predecessors haven't solved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80171	Thank you, Mr. Head. Same answer as your colleague again, so please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and regarding this item of the agenda, as well as the presentation of my colleagues to Glavas, ask me to grant our club a 10 minute break, and I also ask that, in accordance with Article 248(2), I be given the opportunity to present for two minutes the reasons for seeking this break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80173	Thank you. As you know by the new Rules of Procedure, the stations can be approved from 13 o'clock and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80174	No. This is what you're talking about is a free debate on behalf of the club. This is about a break that we're talking about some kind of problem that happened about the debate. What you're saying is that you're taking the stand of a club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80175	Feel free to stand up and explain yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80176	Can I go to the pay phone or do I have to leave?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, unfortunately, we witnessed unfavorable events in the Serbian Assembly, where a convicted war criminal insulted and attacked the Republic of Croatia by attacking our symbols. I was hoping that we in our Parliament were immune from that, because we in our Parliament don't have war criminals. We only have those against whom war crimes are being prosecuted, but I didn't expect those against whom the proceedings are being held would use the debate on the appointment of a new chief state attorney to deal with those prosecutors, the state's attorneys who conducted proceedings against them in the course of their business. But I was wrong. That's why we're looking for this break, but it's not just that. A colleague named Glavas read almost everything by quoting a letter from the State’s Attorney’s Office in Osijek, but he did not read it all. He did not read an extremely important passport, he did not read a passport confirming that Mr. Kraljević was on the battlefield. The passport confirms that Mr. Kraljević spent two months on the battlefield. That battlefield was in Nustre. I don't know how many shots were fired there, but I believe that members of the 10th Dombranska Regiment of the Croatian Army to whom Mr Kraljevic was a member were not easy when they were exposed to an attack by a Serb aggressor. But Mr. Glavas kept it quiet because he focused on only one thing, and that's to difam the one who's running the case against him. Such as is not the place in the Croatian Parliament and therefore I ask that we be allowed to pause for 10 minutes in order to calm down the tensions and then return this debate to what is its subject, which is the debate on the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the person who should do the duty from next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80179	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Dear counterpart Grbin, you are talking about calming tensions, and you are further encouraging them and in one way disdaining parliamentary representatives, colleague Glavas, with your statements and your behaviour you deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. So please stay away from such situations in the future. Here you go, Mr. Glavas, you will be granted a break of 13 hours after the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80180	On behalf of the HSLS Club, I've been looking for HDS for two minutes to explain why I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and I'm looking for a break. And I'm looking for an opportunity to answer Mr. Grbin's lies. It is not at all disputed that the State Attorney's Office stated in its statement of 9 March that date from 16 December to 8 September or 9 September. The disputed fact that it failed on two occasions active participation in armed aggression and determined the exact direction of combat action that was either denied by Miroslav Kraljević to the State's Attorney's Office and the Security Intelligence Agency and in checks or by the State's Attorney's Office, the County State's Attorney's Office is deliberately hiding it. And one more thing. Mr. Kraljević does not lead my process, he led it, now he does not lead it and the process goes in a completely different direction than what Mr. Kraljević would like to do. Mr Kraljević is an on-call person to conduct such politically-mounted processes. He led him in the first phase against me, led him against Djura Brodarac, and now these days he gets a warrant from a former state attorney to lead concrete processes of jumping importance against certain people and famous Croatian football players. All of a sudden, he's requalified himself as an expert on war crimes, now as an expert on false testimony. That tells you everything. I'd like a 10-minute break, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80183	I thank Mr. Glavas. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80184	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, you've hurt twice, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice. The first time, in accordance with Article 238, you did not warn me if I deviated from the rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, what if you have established such a derogation you were obliged to do and the second time you do not distinguish between the break and Article 248 and the presentation of the position of the club of representatives and Article 249. In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, MP clubs can ask for a break once every day. I can't explain it before, I'm sorry after, but I can explain it for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80185	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, you've hurt twice, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice. The first time, in accordance with Article 238, you did not warn me if I deviated from the rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, what if you have established such a derogation you were obliged to do and the second time you do not distinguish between the break and Article 248 and the presentation of the position of the club of representatives and Article 249. In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, MP clubs can ask for a break once every day. I can't explain it before, I'm sorry after, but I can explain it for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80186	Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 248, the request for a break is always explained from a place rather than from here. The second thing, we changed the Rules of Procedure so as not to take a break like, therefore, when they asked for a break they should explain from place and not behind the pay phone and the other thing, the breaks are approved by the basis of Article 249a).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80187	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. I authorized Mr. Grbino to come here for the pay phone so he wasn't responsible for it. ... Don't worry, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt by the fact that you brought it out by moving on with the work or since two breaks have been requested. [[You can't hear it.]] We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80188	Vice President of the Parliament, you violated Articles 248 and 249 because you obviously can't tell the difference between a break and the position of a club of representatives. So Article 248 talks about a break after which there is no further discussion, it is simply used to consult club representatives on a topic, and the position of the club is second, so this is Article 249, which says that between 13 and 15 hours is the position for a pay phone down here in this hall. So it's two completely different ideas that I don't know if you understand enough, here comes the secretary, so maybe he can help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80189	Thank you, Mr. Bunzac. I don't think you've been following up on the exposure of those who said that, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt. We still have a gentleman... All right, let's get back to work. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80190	Given that I have asked for a break, and that you have not approved it for 10 minutes, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby announce that I will request an interpretation from the Constitutional Committee in order to determine this. So you can either approve a 10-minute break now in accordance with Article 248 after which there is no statement of opinion or we will have to launch the entire voting mechanism in Parliament and everything else, so please consider it, if you do not agree, I will have to contact the Committee on the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80191	So now you're looking for a 10-minute break? Okay, good. Is there anyone else? All right, then I'll set a break, and by 1:00, we'll get back to work. It's 12.50 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80192	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80193	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow ministers. We haven't even got an answer yet, which is why Mr. Dink Cwitan's shift, the attorney general, has been carried out. We only discussed yesterday reports that we didn't show ourselves about, we don't know if they were accepted, whether they were rejected, we don't know what the assessment of his work is, it all seems very unserious. It all happened at the last minute, it was made under the pressure of the opposition, thanks exclusively to the new Rules of Procedure and then on Tuesday, so two days ago, the agenda changes, about 14 hours ago we get a notice that a new chief state attorney has already been elected, that this is Mr Drazen Jelinić, who nobody outside the profession essentially knows anything about, and again, as in the case of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, by the HDZ's democratic principle, we choose between which we choose for one man. So that's a choice that's not really a choice. Even so, they choose the president of the party, and then they think that that's how they should elect the president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, so that that's how they should be elected by the attorney general, one man, and then you can either vote for him or you can leave the assembly, so democracy by the ruling majority. What's also not clear, which is why when we replace the state's attorney, it's replaced by his deputy, who's basically doing the same thing as the attorney general, they were two of the closest associates in the State's Attorney's office. So if one wasn't good, then probably his deputy wasn't good either. The change didn't seem necessary. Unless she's purely humane, cosmetic, personal. We've had one such case, haven't we, in Agrokor, where Mr Ramljak was removed to be inherited by Peru, the same as his deputy, and all this actually shows that there are no real changes, but that a policy of continuity is actually implemented and then there's something on a personal level, one way or another important why a certain man is moving. So one man is always chosen, politics remains the same, and that reminds me of that time in the dark Yugoslavia when it's said "And after Tito, it's gonna be Tito". As for Mr. Jelinić, we got some kind of his résumé, yesterday at our clubs, there's a diploma, it's listed where he used to work, but no work plan was listed, the work plan was not there. And then, since we didn't get that information, we had to come to the assembly board today at 9:00 in the morning, get to know the gentleman and ask him questions. And we used our right to do it, so the session lasted almost three hours. But on those questions that we asked the candidate for the attorney general, we didn't get any precise answers but we got philosophical answers, avoiding answers like his predecessor, the gentleman used meta language, using legal terms, hiding behind phrases, but specifically he didn't say anything. Here, for example. for the public who couldn't attend the board's session just to briefly illustrate what happened there. For example. His colleagues asked him, a colleague specifically for war crimes, how research is progressing in the area and to tell the candidate, so some evidence may have gotten lost. Does that seem convincing to you? Does this seem kind of stimulating to you that such a person with confidence might raise his hand? I asked Mr. Jelinić if politics is trying to influence the work of the DORH, which he would do if she tried, I didn't get answers and then the only thing left for me in such a short time when we don't have time for deeper analysis, rely on the information that comes in the last 48 hours to the Live Wall club, and I believe in all the club representatives. For example, one of the information says that Mr. Jelinić, as deputy director of USKOK, lived in Zagreb and had a place outside of Zagreb which might not have been all too controversial if he hadn't been taking travel expenses all this time. Apparently Mr. Bosnjakovic knows all that too, so if he does, I ask him to either confirm it or deny it. It is further said that the objective of certain groups in the HDZ, or parliamentary majority, is to obstruct indictments that could endanger the survival of the government. In particular, that Mr. Jelinić is Sheksov and Glavasev, or Bošnjakovic's man. The man sounds very obscenity because the ruling majority wants to convince us that it is a professional person and not a person who is in agreement with someone. And maybe we could think for a moment, that might be the towers, that's some conspiracy theory, that then here before me for this same pay phone Branimir Glavas, a member of the ruling majority and the intuition of Vladimir Seks, whom he calls a human rights fighter in the theater, who publicly orders, now be careful that he gives the attorney general the task. Look out, he's giving him a mission. Watch your tone. I am tasking the main state attorney, an independent institution under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And then after that, counsel Glavas 15 minutes of assaulting a county state attorney who dared sue him. And here we see all the misery of Croatian politics in the last 28 years, precisely because Mr. Glavas is one of the deputies with the longest internship in the Croatian Parliament because he considers it to be the task of state institutions to work in his personal interest. That's the job of the attorney general. In the interest of his party, which I will get, which my party will have. It is a task, not to pursue crime regardless of who is from which party, who is from which county, who is of which nationality, religion, sex, no, the chief state attorney under the task of Mr. Glavas, should participate in the persecution of those who dare to persecute him and in revenge. It's scary, it's really scary, and it's a particularly scary message that Agent Glavas says intelligence should be involved in everything. And now watch out, when you dare stand up to one of these half-breeds here, they will send against you state institutions but also secret services that will make security assessments of you no matter what it means because no one has ever been able to find out what security check is and how it can decide about you or not, and obviously it can. And it's very paradoxical that those who condemn the supposed dark times of communism with the help of intelligence are now carrying out political accounts. If anyone does not believe these words, feel free to see Mr. Glavas' fresh exposure still being heard and to wonder what kind of people rule in Croatia. The fact that Mr. Glavas came for this pay phone, he indirectly confirmed the rumors that are already circulating in public, and when he said he actually supported the new attorney general, it was the worst recommendation possible. As soon as he hears it, a smart man will vote against, everything he says is for, an honest man has to say no, I can't support it. For this reason, if there might have been no vote, we might have thought about it, but in this way we certainly won't support the election of the chief state attorney, simply because given the full state of justice and the state in general, we in the Living Wall cannot trust the staffing of HDZ and the team before I say so, it is a non-transparent and technically messy and resolution and appointment. Another thing I would like to get an answer to, and I put it directly to candidate Jelinić, was it true that during an investigation into the Agrokor affair, it was discovered that Mr. Todorovic funded the campaigns of individual officials in HDZ until the very top of the party and that it is true that now those who are known to have been associated with Agrokor are seeking to move the county state attorney in Zagreb, Sana Ljubicic. I asked Mr. Jelinić if he was ready to stand in the defense of Mrs. Ljubic. He answered me she would defend herself. Is that an answer that can satisfy the Croatian public who expects some changes? It's not. Very bad answer. So if you have a political conflict, defend yourself. Therefore, from all this that happened within this very short time period of several days, according to the answers we received from Mr Jelinić on the parliamentary committee, according to the speech we heard from Glavas, in accordance with the silence of Minister Bošnjakovic, we in the Living Wall suspect that this shift of Mr Cvitan and the setting of a new candidate in Croatia not only solve problems but deepen them. I would sincerely like someone to convince me of that in the next few months or years but not by story but by deeds. It's the only thing that we're going to be able to appreciate about the work of a future top state attorney that I'm repeating once again, we don't trust right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80194	Thank you. Before moving to the next club of representatives, welcome to the gallery of students of the Serbian Orthodox General School of Kantakuzina Katarina Brankovic, welcome. We continue with the club of representatives, next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS colleague Mladen Madjer, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80195	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The HSS will be retained in the selection of the chief state attorney and the main reason is that the appointment is carried out quickly, the appointment of the attorney general. We know that Mr. Cwitan's mandate expires in a few days, more precisely on April 24th. We simply feel that we do not have the conditions and have not had the conditions to conduct a quality public debate and that it is one of the most responsible functions in the country and we believe that this is too short a time to hold a quality debate on a candidate for a new state attorney. I would also like to point out that, as the HSS Club means, it does not agree with this procedure of the election of the main state attorney run by the government of the Republic of Croatia, because here we are now in the debate over the main state attorney, which is one of the facts that we have here and tomorrow, when we need to vote clearly, that most of us will be gathered and that the main state attorney will be voted on. The HSS Club, if some things are selected, means the mayors, mayors and mayors are elected directly and the HSS Club will advocate that the secretary of state is also elected, elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. To be elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rather than elected by the majority in the Croatian Parliament and where we can always have one thought that the majority of influence on the choice of the main state attorney. It means that the choice automatically raises doubts about the independence of the judiciary that is in the eyes of citizens at very low levels. We are all aware of how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia think of the functionality of the judiciary in our country. Citizens claim their complaints that the judiciary is intransparent, ineffective and corrupt. And we know that, according to some studies, 70% of respondents unfortunately do not trust the judiciary. So although most citizens should think that the judiciary is not independent of politics, citizens expect fair trials and we know, unfortunately, and we are aware that there are privileged citizens under the law. It is sad and sad, but it is true and therefore 70% of the population of the Republic of Croatia does not believe in the judiciary. Of course it's supposed to end. And we are aware and we know that there are numerous processes with sound names, that is, political processes themselves, Sanader, Kalmeta, Bandic, Horvatinčić. The question is who and how much he'll be convicted or maybe have a syncope, so he won't be convicted unfortunately. The question of how many lawyers have to resolve their hands in the management and completion of each process. Just as I have pointed out, how much politics affects the independent work of the judiciary. Will they allow citizens to choose a representative of justice? But if we're not going to make it possible, then why doesn't the two-thirds majority in the Parliament decide, not by their satellites. We are also aware that there is a need to provide sufficient financial resources and space for the smooth work of the state's attorney's office. As I pointed out, the HSS club will be restrained in the election of a state attorney and the same as a colleague of the Bunjac why the current State Secretary of State Cvitan was even being replaced by the man who was his deputy, so we don't see how much this will bring about new developments in the work of the state's attorney. However, note that Mr. Drazen Jelenic's professionalism and competence alone are not at stake. And we hope that he will behave responsibly and in quality the duties of the attorney general and that the DORH will finally move forward and cease to be in office ruling. And here's the note again of the HSS club will be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80196	Thank you. Following a debate by his colleague, Madero, on behalf of the HSS Club, next is counterpart Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80197	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The SDSS representative club regrets the fact that the state's attorney's report took so long to come to the debate in this House. If there were certain obstacles and issues related to the work of the state attorney's office, this matter should not have been placed on the burden of the Croatian Parliament as bodies to monitor work through reports of all important state institutions. And it's a shame that we as a Parliament missed the opportunity, his presidency in the present and earlier councils, not to mention that. Some committees were doing their part of the job but the tide wasn't until yesterday. And she's right, colleague Pusic, when she says, if we want someone's mandate to end especially after the end of the term, it's only natural that after the term of office we decide whether to extend a term or choose someone else. The mechanism of not accepting the report is about some kind of honorable, unworthy discharge in military terminology speaking and it does not need anyone, especially if it is not about wicked people and dishonest work. We have not noticed that the current state attorney is still misbehaving or that he has not tried to carry out his duties in accordance with the law. He may not have done everything anyone expected, but the state's attorney's office, as well as other state institutions, are not the ones who meet wishes, not mine, not anyone else. We're here to highlight the problems of the state's attorney's office. To warn about how and how to deal with these problems, but nothing more. The problem that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Communities particularly pointed out, after the debate and in the conclusions adopted, is a question that we are often here from this speaker and I, as well as other colleagues who are talking about it, is a permanent lack of resources for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. The State Attorney's Office sometimes functioned according to the model of NGOs to receive donations from international governments or international organisations in order to strengthen their capacities. And then we MPs here express our dissatisfaction that there is no more fighting corruption, which is no more fighting organised crime, which is no longer a struggle against unconscious business, which is no longer a struggle to protect the fundamental first protected by the Constitution. They can't often be because people are underpaid and because they don't rarely have any basic assumptions about work. That is why I will repeat the conclusion of this committee that has asked and I believe that the Government will adopt this, the Committee on Human Rights is that the next budget must be increased by means of intellectual services and training in the State's Attorney's Office. The State's Attorney's Office needs to strengthen its capacities, in these two areas minimally, for what? So because lawyers and lawyers' houses become more powerful both financially and financially and in various other ways than the judicial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, including the state's attorney's office. And that this process would not continue to harm the judicial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, including the state's attorney's office, is our primary task to ask the government to increase the separation for the work of the state's attorney, especially some of its works, such as the civil justice department. The minister must know about it. The length of duration of objects and disputes, the lack of people to deal with this, the lack of intellectual services that for such things, especially for such difficult and complicated objects as for example. Agrokor. There are colleagues here who pointed out that it is necessary for some people to respond because of what happened in Agrokor or what happened in Agrokor. With what capacity can we expect the state's attorney's office without the means of intellectual services, without adequate number of trainees to perform these tasks? So if we're looking for it and if someone thinks they're looking for it, then there's a need to assume that the state's attorney's office is being provided with the means to do it. Whoever's looking for it and not asking for funding for a state's attorney's office, he's not actually looking for the right thing. He wants his voice heard, not his job done. As far as this election is concerned, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, as part of the ruling coalition, will support the candidate proposed by the government. They will support it for the following reasons, firstly supporting it because it comes from the ranks of deputies, those who spent most of their professional careers in the state's attorney's office. Those who are a good part of their careers have done precisely the jobs that have allowed them to gain adequate experience, adequate skills, and adequate knowledge so that they can play such a demanding, morally and professionally demanding role as the role of the state's attorney. Our mission here is two things, except for the funds I mentioned. And that is to ensure that there is no pressure, therefore the means that they can do their job professionally and that they can deal with those who defend under the law, defend those against whom the DORH is running proceedings. To be as equal in this process as it is. And now their country is unequal to those who have money and power. Someone here mentioned some cases before me, so that's because the state is unequal. Its important DORH segment is unequal to a number of actors in the items mentioned here. And then the worst thing is, if we get involved in it, we get involved in politics and tries to arbitration or try to influence it, and we know it's been a feature for years. Especially in war crimes cases that burden relations in our society today, which burden relations between our country and neighbouring countries, one such incident was yesterday that violated the best will to deal with them in advance. Are we trying here today in a similar way to affect the decisions of the state's attorney's office or to send messages to anyone else in our system doing things that we're violating this system. And for this reason, the SDSS club expects that there is no incentive or distraction in this matter, and unfortunately many war crimes cases await when it comes to Flash where no one has ever been responsible for any crime committed against Serbian civilians and when it comes to Storm where no one has ever been responsible for mass persecution or murder. If you want to replace me here at the pay phone, I'll leave my five minutes, I'm sure you can say something smarter than me, and I'm sure you think you have more right to speak here than I do. And if you were in some other circumstances, you'd be smaller than a macaque, because you're no longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80198	Please, colleague, no trespasses. Please. We continue with the Club of HNS Representatives colleague Stjepan Čuraj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80199	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club will support the proposal to appoint a new state attorney. In addition to being acceptable to us because of our expertise and the fact that for many years in the system of justice or the state's attorneyship itself, we actually have a sort of continuity here, so I can even withdraw the parallel and continuity that was in the previous appointment of the former state attorney, when it came instead of Mr. Bajic, we also supported it then and as part of the position it was also a sort of continuity because we know where Mr. Cvitan came from. Now one of his deputies continues, I believe, with a new elan and a new grill, as he himself said with some new and additional goals. As for his announcements that we had the opportunity to hear on the board, we can certainly welcome them. First of all, he has just announced a better relationship between the police and the police themselves and the criminal police in the investigation and everything that must lead to the power of the indictment itself. Of course, we're always looking at the work of a state attorney through results, but as we had the chance to hear yesterday, it's not just the result that gives a picture. We see that if we're just going to talk about the result that even now the numbers aren't that bad, but instead of us talking about quantity, we have to think about quality. So they can't be part of the statistics of the same procedures that are brought to the rightful judgments in small values, not so much media disposed, when we talk about small people, you know it's always the impression in the people that everything breaks over the back of small people and that they always pay their fines and do things and sometimes someone feels unfairly, gets judgments, and those who have made something ten, thousand, one million times more if we talk about some values they still today can see in the media as mocking the system. So we must bear in mind both that part of the media and media perceptions, but above all also the very quality of the procedure because we heard today on the board that according to some cases five, six and more deputy state attorneys at one time. And that's exactly where my inquiry went, and it's actually a sort of motion and a proposal to the ministry, but I hope the future state attorney that all assumptions must be fulfilled that it must be "Condicio son qua non", so there's no discussion about it, and these are the conditions in which these state lawyers work. I have an example of my colleagues from Slavonia and Baranja from the municipal state's attorneys where they literally don't have room for a file, let alone a desk, when we're talking about ordinary inventory, when we're talking about places. That is why I can welcome Mr Jelinić's announcement and reflection, as well as the minister himself, who said that there will be a reorganisation when we talk about the very assumptions of normal work,... we are talking about some infrastructure and technical assumptions, so the place to work, and then, if you want, an office inventory. And of course, if we're talking about it as some hardware, then we can't forget the software, and that's people, and that's the most important thing. Today, I was pleased to hear that 38 new deputies and deputy state attorneys are in the process, and that's what we have to cultivate, that these people come to us as many quality people as possible, so that these procedures are quick. Do we know when we look at it in general, now it may not have anything to do with the judiciary directly, but one of the things that citizens always fall for is citizens in this country's institutions, especially when we talk about the court, not to talk about doing business analysis and what it means to have an effective judiciary, and the state's attorney is part of that judiciary. Maybe they're not individually responsible for some items, but they're certainly part of that system. She thinks it must be some things that don't need to be taken lightly. Of course, people are always... different, neither two brothers are the same nor two men can be the same, so neither the two men who do the same work usually have the same pay, and we've heard that they don't exactly work with the same intensity just because maybe one better or worse, the other is not working, but maybe because one of them has a job because there's a county where they get maybe 20 items a year, and some, as we know, in large centres have under hundreds of total when we're looking at the entire attorney's office, so, the whole office. That's why you should think the same thing, think about rewarding state's attorneys. They bear a great deal of responsibility and it must not happen to us that they do not want to take that part of responsibility, but let's let the best old man go to court, so let the court decide, we wash off all our responsibility. And there have been cases like that, where there are still no elements there, but what someone will say, which the public will say there hasn't been an indictment, they'll say again someone's holding somewhere in the drawer, so the best thing we're going to do is let go of something that may already be in the beginning to estimate that there are no elements. Why? Maybe because these people aren't paid enough to take that part of responsibility. It's not easy. Of course, when we talk about those who may deliberately persist and destroy such suggestions. We're talking about human destiny not a small number of times, and it's not to play with. These people truly deserve all our support and certainly also to return in an adequate and financial way, or reward. This is where we heard stories about the procedure itself. I can say, of course, that the procedure is respected, we can now see that we should or should have changed in some previous mandates, but if we talk about the length of the mandate or the length of the mandate, I believe that here that, that the partners came with a proposal to extend this term for 7 years, then they would say they go to make it out of one of their men irreplaceable, so here he is, extending his term to 7 years to go through more mandates. Now we say it might be good. On the other hand, we say it's back-to-back, and if it was last week, then everyone, I believe, would say it's hiding under the carpet of the Istanbul Convention, voting on mistrust, so if we had discussed it last week, I don't think it would certainly get enough attention right, so this is the second week of work after the Easter break. Now, whether or not something should have been going on for months earlier, we need to know that a man has to do his job and not be overly burdened with it two months before the end. I suppose we'll have everything in accordance with the law, as well as the appointment procedures. And in the end, I repeat once again that the HNS Club will support this appointment, that is, the proposal of a new state attorney because I say, we believe that it is a kind of continuity, and the way of appointment itself, it can be said that it is similar to that of Mr. Bajic, when he replaced Mr. Cvitan and then we supported it and I think we should give full support here and through the budget because then we can talk about justice and the state's attorneyship itself, of course, and other courts, to always get to the end goal, and that is to have an effective, efficient, I will say justice and justice. Of course, law and justice, unfortunately, are not a small number of times on opposite sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80200	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Curaju. Now we're done arguing on behalf of the representatives' clubs, and now we're going to continue with an individual debate. First call from my colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a state attorney, although in some sense, when we talk about the proposed one, it would be good for a man to be here, no matter what we get a résumé. Speaking of justice, here's the minister now, so the people don't believe in the judiciary and that's one of the bigger problems in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, they don't believe in the state's attorney's office either because it's a fact and it's one of the key results of poor economic development. economic and, of course, demographic indicators are bad because where the rule of law is not safe, of course, economic development is not good. We're here now talking about a new state attorney proposed. In fact, it's the man who's coming, who's been Deputy Mr. Cwitan, the current attorney. In fact, it's one continuity. None of us expect it to be continuity, but we expect many problems to be solved means privatisation and robbery. Someone says it's hard to solve, but war profit, I think it's not very hard to solve because it's very easy to determine those who didn't have 5 kunas in their pocket or 5 dinars didn't have 90s, today they manage 90% of the economy of the Republic of Croatia and numerous bad works. So, one continuity of the poor judiciary in general, and also the state's attorney's office, yesterday I spoke about it, and the system of course and other institutions led to the extinction of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, due to poor governance. Here, I'd start with what's very crucial. Yesterday I mentioned to the state's attorney, but there's no man here, but he'll probably listen. In person, on 21.4.2017, I filed a criminal complaint against the governors and his deputies, vice governors and against HANFA, who are in the Council for the Stability of System Companies. I didn't get any answers. It's for 10 billion bonds without the cover she used means Agrokor in the Republic of Croatia. This is also due to the recognition of the public statement and the governor of the CNB, so I believe that monetary policy, financial stability is compromised, but I believe that the state's attorney has an obligation to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, mainly to those who were meant for it, mainly because of the economic crisis caused by Agrokor, as a system of governance, not only Todorovic, because, of course, it is the easiest thing to say about Todorovic, it is now mentioned most by those who were with him nonstop, taking pictures as ministers, walking alongside him and, of course, that... I'm talking to a man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the system of governance of the political system of the Republic of Croatia which was dependent on Agrokor that it is time to resolve that knot since it was human, and he was Deputy Mr. Cvitan, now Cvitan will be to him as before Bajic, in fact I expect that there will be changes, hopefully, and killing me seems to be one continuity but we will see of course soon. The state's attorney's office must do its job in accordance with the law, the fact is once again that the tycunisation of Croatia was in the worst form and there is work there. We're going after war crimes. Of course, I can't agree with the fact that we still don't know where the bones are from. Schretter, I even suggested a legal procedure, made a request for a day of peace and a day of Dr. To remember, but surely that the people who were negotiators from that time were here earlier, a colleague of Pupovac could probably help us a lot, so that we can solve these cases because they died anyway, and they were very important, during the aggression of large-serb, of course, that we expect that to solve these problems. So we have problems with economic crime, we must not allow those who robbed Croatia and also those who participated in large-scale Serbian aggression to walk freely. Ministers, Croatian citizens don't trust the judiciary, they don't trust the State's Attorney's Office, they don't trust the institutions, they don't trust Parliament either, because by political key because he's lost essentially the role, regardless of what the Constitution says, we've lost the role of making a decision, of course, and the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that were, we see that the problem is, that the democratic debate in this House, which is why I expect you ministers to, as a minister of justice, of course you can't directly influence the state's attorney, he's an independent body, but I'm sorry we don't have the possibility legally because I don't know why today is not a state lawyer, proposed state lawyer, since we choose him most of course. I personally will not vote for this reason because I consider the continuity to be a continuation of the same policies of the State's Attorney's Office. I repeat again, those who did not have 5 kunas in their pocket in the 1990s or 5 dinars are today the richest people in my town of Sinj and the Republic of Croatia. It is very easy to see through the tax cards, however, is the fact that we have in the tax returns and many other institutions that should be used by the State Attorney's office together in synergy with the institutions, but obviously here the poverty, no one is taking care of it, the tycoons are protected and simply here the judiciary has no p of justice, you know ministers that there is no p of justice, this is the case of the INA where the Croatian state is due to INA and the INA judgment i.e. The constitutional court that gave the solution that essentially Croatia lost to MOL arbitration in arbitration. So whoever you sentence to be guilty would get the verdict, but those who robbed normally walk, there's no problem, only the one who barked, he's been convicted, all those who striped the state, and that's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. We have the meaning of Slavonia empty, the funds for agriculture that were intended for the OPGs went into other people's pockets, the shipbuilding was destroyed, the way it went, how much money was paid for the shipbuilding, not purposefully. The state review tells us every year about billions of kunas that are not intended to be spent, examples in shipbuilding, in agriculture. And they're sending it to the State's Attorney's Office, and the State's Attorney's Office should do the job, but it's not working. I think that if you just tap into the place, as you now tap, that Croatia will be increasingly empty, less and less economically secure for development, because of course no one will come, there is no legal certainty. I see it is such an example in Croatia. That is why I expect the State's Attorney's Office to do its job in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80202	Thank you, fellow Bull. We have two replicas, the first colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80203	Dear colleague Bulj, as you pointed out here we have a continuity which the question is whether it's a good continuity because I'm going to point out to you here for a little while now, I'm very interested in your opinion. We have the protesting of Croatian defenders in BiH and Republika Srpska, we have in Serbia, on the other hand, the State's Attorney's Office did not process Croatia, so those who have committed aggression to Croatia adequately. So here we have a really big, big gap. You've had about privatization, these failures but this failure nobody's saying, that the State's Attorney's Office has actually missed doing what was supposed to be done in this long period of time. On the basis of numerous evidence of material existence, process all those responsible for war crimes in the Republic of Croatia. So in that context, I think that this continuity that we have with this rotation is actually not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80204	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80205	Well, of course it is sad to say that war criminals who have committed aggression against BiH and Croatia live in Croatia today and walk Croatia. It's a pity we don't know about the dead and the dead and our colleagues are here in Parliament who should know about Dr. Schretter, I mentioned it, I would once again ask here and the chairman, he'll probably hear the President of the Parliament and the presidency in order to classify the point of Dr. Schretter. Ivan Schreter, Peace Day. No one was responsible for those bones. Of course, a crime is a crime. No one has to justify the crime, but the fact is that the aggressor army that committed the aggression along with the Chetniks, very little and no one is responsible for it, and even for Bran Peruch, we didn't have any criminal charges raised, the state's attorneys didn't do it in the HAAG for the Mutka Mutac who mined Bran Peruch and who committed a crime in your Sibenik and my Sinj, i.e. In the back of the giant. So they've been dealing with other problems and working out who knows in whose interest, but we expect the state's attorney's office to finally commit and punish the culprit for major crimes in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80206	Thank you. Comrade Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Bully, you mentioned the INA MOL case, and I think you've mixed up some things, so here's a clear explanation, and also for the sake of the public to be informed. So in the case of INA MOL, the Constitutional Court abolished the rightful verdict of the former president of the Croatian Government because his human, or procedural rights were violated by him. It means the right to a fair trial, etc. So it's one procedure, but what's important is that the proceedings are returned to the court and it's still being decided, so nothing's ever been legally completed, no one's been legally released, and it's still a question of how this process will end. The arbitration procedure, however, is a completely different procedure which is not directly related to this and I don't think that it should interfere with different things so that the public doesn't go astray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80208	Answer. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80209	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I'm just saying that the fact that no one's been convicted of the INE case... Go on, telecommunications, even Mudrinic became head of that foreign teleoper, and he took away what your parents, my parents and some senior representatives here paid for their money, no one was punished, but was rewarded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the case of INA, who's being punished? Did anyone answer? So what do we expect from arbitration if the Croatian judiciary doesn't prove that we've surrendered hostilely to other people's hands, it's our fault, MOL INA, white nights. So, white nights from Slavko Linic, and now that they're leaving, who's been answering? No one. That's a fact. I've been known to go through with the proceedings and that the Constitutional Court did what it did, of course when the Constitutional Court was resolved as best man... And in the judiciary, from the minister to the representative of the Constitutional Court, they must be his best man, what Shacks will do, that's his job, of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80210	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Goran Aleksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80211	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow ministers. I must say, I'm not satisfied with the way we choose, that five to 12 decide who will be the candidate, but we are here at the final act, and there is no leverage here. Unlike my colleagues from the Living Wall, I'm going to vote for the state's attorney, I have my reasons for doing so. During the previous period, the state attorney's office did not do the quality work in which I most watched and resisted my eyes, which is the job of processing foreign-owned Croatian banks, still taking Croatian citizens away for 15 years, because they are illegally operating, because they still have illegally agreed interest rates and because they may soon be proven in court to be illegally contracted and currency clause CHF. So in the previous period, the state's attorney's office failed to process the banks. The second reason I'm voting for a state attorney is because I'm going to give him a chance to pass you up. First of all, perhaps more important than what I'm talking about right now, first of all, there is a need to protect the Republic of Croatia in the arbitration process that is being conducted in Washington, D.C., which is being launched by the Uni Credit and three other banks. The arbitration process has been contaminated by the fact that the arbitration process in Washington is the opposite of the EU. This was established by the EU court in its recent ruling, a decision on the previous issue where it was found unequivocally that safeguard clauses were in bilateral agreements between EU members before they entered the EU, that these safeguard clauses were the EU's opposite law. Because these safeguard clauses of the opposite EU law, which is why arbitration in Washington is also contaminated, it must not be implemented, and in my opinion even the legal entities that have initiated this arbitration should give up the arbitration because they are legal entities from the EU that should be respected EU law. I offered a future state attorney to help the team involved in this arbitration as a witness. I know a lot about it, and if the arbitration continues, I can absolutely help to get some first-hand things said on the spot. And what are these things? First, it was found by law that banks had negotiated unfair contractual provisions on the interest rate. This has led to more than 5 billion kunas being robbed by banks to Croatian citizens. The second thing, following a new judgment by the High Court of Commerce, where the case of franc is repeated, may be claimed to be an unfair and currency clause CHF. It will be an additional element for arbitration to say here you see, what is legal in the business of Croatian banks at all? These unfair banks, which negotiated unfair contractual provisions with Croatian citizens, sued the Republic of Croatia for losing some of their investments and were in fact the ones that robbed Croatian citizens. What did banks do when it came to the CHF currency clause? That is what the sparrows on the branches know that CHF currencies in Croatia do not exist. So, to negotiate these loans, it's not based money from CHF deposits, it's money from kuna deposits and euro deposits. And what banks did, since they didn't have that money in the franc, and they had to cover it with francs, then the money from the balance sheet in kunas and Euros was transferred to the off-balance sheet, they did short-term bookkeeping jobs, so on. ... and apparently created the image as if it were covered in francs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the cover in the francs wasn't really there. The total difference of course went to the mothers' banks, so the mother's banks earned a difference from the course and now the mother's banks are suing the Republic of Croatia for losing some money. And they didn't lose, they got a difference in courses. We'd like to get double. So we'd like to get a difference of course that they already got through off balance through those forvard contracts, and we'd still like to get what they had as a cost of conversion. It can't, it won't work that way. However, it is only that extreme situation if the arbitration remains, if the arbitration is not given up, then one such kind of testimony is required. I hope, however, that banks will give up arbitration, because, as I said, the EU's opposite process is right and banks must go out of it if they want to respect EU rights. As I was saying, banks have negotiated unfair interest rates and have taken away 5 billion kuna citizens. If the currency clause CHF also happens to be unfair, it is another 10 billion kuna that must be returned to Croatian citizens through private court proceedings, which will later follow. So at this point, the banks are Croatian citizens, which is my opinion, my view, about 15 billion kuna in total. The banks that, therefore, have robbed the citizens of 15 billion kuna, want the Croatian cost of conversion. So here I expect the future state attorney, if the arbitration continues, to take the offered hand and take me as a witness in this arbitration process. I can certainly help a lot, to make it better. And secondly, what I expect from the state's attorney is that after the second degree is re-determined, if it decides positively in favour of the debtor and if it decides positively for... As far as interest rates are concerned, the bank is being opened wide the door for the prosecution of banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, the state lawyer and his deputies will have to, on the basis of a statement that will surely follow the criminal charge of the Croatian banks, because if the Croatian banks have indeed unfairly negotiated the interest rate, which is already established and the additional currency clause CHF, then they must simply be prosecuted, because they are systematically all in the same way, without distinction agreed unfair agreements of the provision, it is obviously systematicly united action, which must be prosecuted. And if it had to be prosecuted, I also have proof in fact that it was done by a French state prosecutor. In France, one bank placed only CHF loans, there were about 5, 6 thousand, it was found rightly that these loans were unfair, due to the CCF currency clause and after it was legally found that these loans were unfair, the French state prosecutor launched a criminal prosecution of the bank. It's now under way, in a court of law in France. So, I expect these things to happen in Croatia and if these things happen in Croatia, a future state lawyer, to whom I will give my vote for a new job, which will work, will get a final and positive assessment. But first he has to prove that positive assessment based on these substances that I was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80212	Thank you. Two replicas, first colleague of Zekanovic Hrvoje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80213	Dear fellow Alexic, here I would like to hear your attitude regarding the work, i.e., the reluctantness of the State's Attorney's Office in the matter of privatisation. As you know, I asked Mr. Bull, about... numerous war criminals who walk free today to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are numerous material evidence for hundreds and hundreds of Croatian tycoons that robbed our country in the early '90s. Mr. and I would dare say, except for the Kutla and... Different cases, no one's been processed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since you said to support this new roschado, or new state attorney, I'm interested in your position on their work, or, in that period?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80214	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80215	We all know from the media about this privatisation, about this conversion, that it was a robbery, how much it was a pseudo-entrepreneurship where it was made possible for small people who were driving romobiles before the Homeland War to get rich. And that crime is the worst possible kind and, of course, the State's Attorney's Office probably didn't do its job quality or not get quality information or just hasn't done its job in my place, and there's no one who worked in the State's Attorney's office, and neither is the future state's attorney, but I'm dealing with a tight segment, and in that narrow segment, I said what I wanted to know and for that reason, I have to support this new state attorney. On the other hand, we don't have the option of being a minority, now we're together in that minority, we don't have the option of choosing someone else, so for pragmatic reasons, I'll be in. Not for real reasons, it's a super-quality thing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80216	And colleague Peja Grbin, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80217	Dear colleague, please, just to be clear, something that normally confuses me very much about the proceedings against the Republic of Croatia for the loss of banks. As banks sue the Republic of Croatia for the cost of conversion that they allegedly lost, when all banks in the Republic of Croatia have earned profits throughout the crisis, and such profits have also been achieved after the conversion. I may be ignorant, I may not understand it, but it's the data they made themselves, and it's the public themselves. So, their share of bad credits fell, loans are coming back, they're making a profit, and now suddenly the Republic of Croatia is to blame. I don't really understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80218	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80219	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Grbin, you're right, it's about the banks using what they can, they have these bilateral agreements, and then they started arbitration to sew up extra profits and actually the fact is that they're not lost. First because they had a tax relief, secondly because all the debtors who sue after conversion lose the process for overpaid interest, so that's what they got. And they've lost more bad credits, they've lost under quotes. So they're a total winner. In the situation after the conversion of CHF credit there is one true win win win situation where we all got. Debtants got a cut in their principals, banks got rid of bad loans and in the future are doing much healthier, they also got a tax relief and the state solved the problem for citizens where it showed its social and legal sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80220	Thank you, too. We're going to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Unfortunately, he's not here, so he's losing his right to speak. Now it's time for the esteemed fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80221	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. When the director of the City Theatre is elected in Zagreb, he is then elected in a way that is open a year before the term of office of the current director. The last shift took place a few days ago at the Kerempuh City Theatre. The selection process of the new director was carried out a year ago and it was known that Mr. Lušković would be replaced by Mr. Suškovic because he was elected to the post a year ago. The two of them are the old principal and the newly appointed director worked together for a year. The old man no longer made any decisions without consulting those who would succeed him, the new one fully headed for the situation in the institution he would lead. That's how serious it looks, otherwise it should look. And how does this government work? Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, his mandate expired on April 11th, and the government sent material to the Assembly on the 10th of April before the end of the term of office with a proposal to extend the term of office of the old director but actually to elect a new one. As we discuss it, he continued to interregne while we voted and confirmed the new, interregne from 11th till tomorrow, interregnem, no director, completely messy, completely messy as in kindergarten. It was also with the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and now here with the Attorney General. Well, it's like it's a completely irrelevant function, so it's a last-minute thing. We'll pick a new one on Friday. He's on duty next week. When the minister spoke of he had nothing against Mr. Cvitan but that he had simply expired his mandate, that it was normal to determine a new one, it must not be the one who has acted on duty so far, and I fully agree with that. No one has been subscribed to some duty, his term of office has expired, and it is the right of the government to appoint and propose someone else. There's absolutely nothing controversial about it, and in that sense, I don't think Mr. Cwitan is being replaced because he's out of office. But I think the minister was quite dishonest when he said he had absolutely nothing like the whole government against Mr. Cwitan. The evidence is that the HDZ club does not want to accept Cvitane's report, but only takes them into consideration. Now watch out, there are 3 degrees, reports are either accepted or accepted or refused. And they're formulas, they have meanings, they're not nonsense. When a person’s report is kept in mind, the work of the person who submitted those reports shall be recognised. Then it's said, man, you did well and we confess your work. When you only take notice, then you express doubts about his work. Now I would be interested in why the HDZ does not want to accept those reports, according to the suggestion of, of course, the prime minister, president of the HDZ. Why do they resent Cwitan because they seem to resent him? Yesterday I said that Cvitan might be proud that HDZ doesn't support him. Because whoever the HDZ doesn't support certainly did well, quite certainly, the greater evidence it doesn't need. The main danger to the work of a state's attorney is the pressure of politics, there's no greater danger. We have had different situations in Croatia since its creation. One time from April 10th to August of '92. The head of state's attorney was Mr. Shakespeare, the man from the top of the party back then. And it was nothing unusual in the Republic of Croatia, so that an eminent political figure would be a state's attorney. In such a situation, of course, there can be no talk of state attorneyship as an independent institution. She's a political servant, literally. This situation needs to be avoided, these are past names, we're not going to talk about it, I'm just saying it as an example. The most important thing is to free him from the pressure of politics and, unfortunately, we have heard of it, our colleague Branimir Glavas has used all his time to tell the new state attorney that you need to investigate what this deputy county attorney in Osijek was doing. Look, fellow Chief, I can understand your indignation, I can understand everything, but I can't understand that you in the political body, in the Parliament, haven't even chosen him as a new state attorney yet, saying what he needs to do publicly here for everyone to hear you. Well, at the very least, she coerced a judicial officer. It's not done, it's not done in decent countries regardless of your bitterness. It's your private case. The funds, see, in 2016 for DORH, but also for USKOK and for all state attorneys the state gave 342 million kuna. For the Catholic Church, only according to the Vatican contracts of 600 million kuna. Well, what's more important to us as a state? What's more important to us? We can, uh, double the church and cancel the entire state's attorney's office. Why pursue crime? Or why are we pretending to chase him and not give him money? So how will people work if we don't give them money? If these money goes to a Catholic church that hasn't done anything for the last month, it's attacked the state and the ruling party for the Istanbul Convention. Well, if that's more important to us, then let's keep it that way. And third, last thing choice, way of choice. So I'm not the first minister to propose this. You said you were preparing to amend the law on the State's Attorney's Office. The suggestions we've heard here are quite reasonable. One term, seven-year extension. Why one? Why one mandate? So that there is nothing to be trusted with. He doesn't expect re-election at all. He doesn't care, he simply doesn't count on it, and he knows he can't count on it because it will significantly boost the independence of the state's attorney. Is that term 7 years, is it 6 years, is 8 years less important? Well, if it were 8, if it were a double mandate, if it were a double mandate, it might be better if it were an odd number. Why? If it didn't match the parliamentary cycles' mandates, it wouldn't have happened if they overlapped, were at the same time. And finally, the reason for abstention. Why am I going to vote with abstention? Not because I have anything against Mr. Drazen Jelinić, I don't know him, I hear all the best about him that colleagues who know his work, but the reason for abstention is this, let's give him a chance, is the responsibility of the ruling state attorney to propose. It's a responsibility and not a small responsibility, you can make a mistake, a man can do bad, he can want to serve you, maybe he'll make a mistake, I don't know. It can be both objective and unobstructive. I will be delighted if we can accept his first report with pleasure, when we see that his work is good because it will mean that you have proposed the best possible man because it will mean that we can then adopt his first report and confirm him. Now, the responsibility is on you, so let him be elected to your votes, and we will be restrained in that part, not for the person, but for the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80222	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the honorary colleague of the Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80223	Mr. Stazic, I didn't give my assignment to the new state's attorney to do it. Tomorrow's state's attorney is president of the state's attorney council. I suggested to the state's attorney that an additional security check be carried out. In my presentation, I also addressed SOA, a security intelligence agency whose responsibility is to carry out checks. She did probably one check, another check, they're not complete, I argued with certain documents, dates, manual numbers, that documentation exists and the job is the SOA to just determine the accuracy of it or not. If that is true, it is logical that the chief state attorney proposes to the state's attorney council to discuss the problem and possibly confirm the status of... State's attorney or deny consent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80224	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80225	I listened very carefully to you. I have no reason to impute you for not saying anything. Ton, the statement in your speech was inappropriate to the future state's attorney. It's up to you to file criminal charges, if you think someone committed a crime. That's what citizens do. You file that with the state's attorney's office, so if we don't trust the state's attorney, then don't vote for him. You said you would. But you file criminal charges against whoever you think committed the crime, but don't publicly ask a future state attorney to do this or that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80226	Second replica, dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80227	Thank you very much. As regards the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, you were the chairman here as vice-president when there was a shift debate based on the government's decision. The SDP has never spent a shift, you know it's left and it's obvious until today and everything that's been going on there, that's conflict of interest and that agency. So no, you're not falsely informing the public. As far as persecution is concerned, i.e. You were the one who, in one case, was the truck case, where you pressured one minister to file a case, a court case, and you never apologized to him and you never apologized to him from this pay phone here even though that pressure was perhaps one of the greatest things I remember in the political world. And as for the State's Attorney story, I think I have too little time, and why you don't support it, you probably have a reason. Which doesn't mean that the government in this procedure, which is legal, has no right to do what it did, which is to propose a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80228	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80229	I was talking about the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, whose mandate expired on 11 April, and we haven't confirmed a new one. Whose fault? By the government's mistake, by punishing the government. No pressure on anyone I've ever put on because of an affair truck. The investigation committee was established, it examined everything, the whole material was directed to the DORH's DORH's arraignment, the court confirmed the indictment, the trial was conducted by Rončević, convicted illegally to a 4-year-old high court he returned to a retrial, imagine with which direction. It must not be questioned whether Roncevic bought the most expensive possible trucks when he had cheaper in public offerings. But, just, did this most expensive offer, in this most expensive offer, pay more than the offer said. If with such guidance, there is no one who would not be freed, whatever he has done, it speaks of the work of our courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80230	Thank you. Let's go now, dear fellow Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80231	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stazic, you are, if I understand correctly, something in style, so here, HDZ gives money to the Catholic Church, and behold, the church is not on the side of HDZ in... the situation, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, that's an interesting idea of politics. So, if I get it right, what you're saying, we're going to be giving budget money, and you're going to be giving us political support in return. That's not how HDZ works. Even so, the SDP may be working because we see that the executive directors, some independent government contracts, are in office today, and tomorrow are SDP executive secretaries. So, obviously, you're used to some way, the modes of action, which probably shouldn't work the way you see it in a democratic state. As far as Catholic churches are concerned, there are also funds for educational programmes and social programmes, etc. which I think are much more useful than various political associations, which push a political platform, which, behold, answers you, which is why you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80232	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80233	It's your fault that you quoted me, I didn't say that HDZ was giving money to the Catholic Church, if you want to give it to me, it's still in your register, because you don't have the power to give back the 23 million. Come on, let HDZ pay for the Catholic Church, I won't say a word. But the Catholic Church is paid out of a state budget, in which everyone, not only the HDZ, and not only the believers, but also the atheists. And from this budget should also be financed by the DORH, should also be financed by education, healthcare should be financed, pensions should be financed. If you want, God willing, take that obligation upon yourself, everyone happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80234	Let's move on, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80235	I would like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. President. I will begin, where my colleague Stazic stopped, and I see that from the replicas that followed, it is necessary to explain very clearly what the procedure is and what is violated in this election. So, the election of the General State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Constitution, Art. 125. The Constitution, but also the Law on State's Attorney's Office. Law on State's Attorney's Office, Art. In '95, he prescribed the procedure, but also the deadlines in which the government proposes, and the Parliament elects the attorney general. We've heard from a colleague before, that nothing disputed has happened, but that's clearly how it is in this country, where Parliament sets certain deadlines, and then no one respects them alive. Because why would the Croats respect my deadlines because paraphrasing a colleague is not a pumpkin so that we know who will become Coach Bayern six months in advance. And obviously this isn't a pumpkin anymore, but it used to be. Because four years ago, a proposal for g. State's attorney, the government sent two months before his term of office into the procedure. And do you know why that's important? It's important for a number of reasons. Perhaps at least, therefore, if the former and new chief state attorney had time to prepare for the handover, or such as that in the case of the theatre, he depicted fellow Stazic, as having a certain period of time, in order to spy on them. The job of Deputy Mr. President. State's attorney and see. The state's attorney isn't the same. The same as the job of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Government is not the same and cannot be. Responsibilities The state's attorney is immeasurable against the responsibility of his colleagues. He's the face, he's the voice of the entire organization. We, unfortunately, are colleagues of Jelenic, whom I greatly appreciate, have actually made it difficult to begin his term of office. We've put him in a situation where at first we have doubts as to why this choice takes place over the knee. We have no reason to give up Mr. Cvitan, although it is true that he who was given the Constitution the opportunity to propose a chief state attorney, which is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the right to propose a new one at its discretion after the end of the term of office of the previous one. But we haven't heard a single word from the government about what he resented the previous one. What are these reasons, that a man who still has something to give, did not get a chance to continue what I think is not great, but very good works, not great. Because the gaff was, that's what we talked about yesterday, not to repeat myself. So, counterpart Jelenic was brought into a very awkward situation. Kolega Jelenić has also been brought into a very awkward situation with regard to colleagues sitting in the Croatian Parliament and who will need to decide on him tomorrow. I have had opportunities, because, alone and these professions and because I have participated in the work of the State Attorney's Council to meet a colleague and see that it is a professional, to see that it is a person who is impartial and a person who, by my deep conviction, is honorable. My colleagues from my club but also colleagues with your club, distinguished colleagues from the ruling majority, did not have the opportunity. And since it's a self-absorbed man, you haven't had a chance to Google him specifically and find something about his career that would get you stuck in the eye because it's been saved for professional circles. And that's why it's normal that most of the opposition will be held back because they don't know anything about it and they haven't had a chance to get to know it. Unfortunately, as my colleague Stazic said, it has become an established practice of this government. Let's just remember the situation, though, it's the President of the Republic's fault, but it's still part of your political circle, let's remember the situation about the Supreme Court president, and we haven't had a chance to conduct an adequate debate there. Fortunately, we do not have such a situation in our colleague Jelenić that we had to look for his property cards in order to examine certain illogicalities about the origin of his property and then when we realized that we did not get all the property cards, that the ruling majority decided to deny us the right to make an insight into the others and then when they came to the public, then we had the opportunity to see also why the President of the Supreme Court was today swindling with the display of assets in the property card, that his property card was responsible for deciding the conflict of interest as we have recently seen in the case of Mrs. Rimac, he would be punished. Furthermore, the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest, we were waiting again for the last moment. However, not that we were waiting for the last moment but we decided after the deadlines had passed. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, too, currently does not have a person who should be the head of the Personal Data Protection Agency while at EU level there is a revolution on the issue of privacy protection and on what the Agency should be doing. I think we have also discussed recently the law governing this area and we do not have a person who should exercise that protection of the rights of Croatian citizens. Expert task force, so now State's Attorney's office, etc., etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the procedure is extremely important. Democracy rests on procedure. If the law says that the deadline within which the government has to propose a candidate is three months, then we can't dismiss that deadline and pretend like it doesn't matter. Then let's change the law and say that the government proposes a candidate a week before the current term expires. But we won't do it because we ourselves know what a public debate and a parliamentary debate about such a law would look like. Let me also use this debate for one message that I will most likely send to the new Attorney General Jelinić. He has my support because like I said, I've had a chance to work and meet him through practice and I know why I'm going to vote for him but it's not bianco support. I expect great things from him, and I hope he will be worthy of the trust he will receive tomorrow. First of all, I expect him to be impartial, completely impartial. He's the one I expect not to let those guffs like he did yesterday, and his current attorney-in-chief, Col. Cvitan, himself, confessed. I expect from him that when the Prime Minister eventually asks him to show up at a press conference, he says decisively not because he can't do that. However, I also expect him to be appointed to the Minister of Justice, although I believe that the Minister of Justice will have the hearing without it, and to provide the budget with adequate resources for 2019 to improve the work of the state's attorneys, and not only the USKOK, whose situation is critical but also the State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, in particular its civil and administrative department, etc. These are all the things we need to allocate funds for, they're important. Furthermore, I expect the attorney general to work on the education of colleagues who work in law enforcement, which is extremely important because it's not just a moment I've chosen, I've collected the most points in the judiciary, I've collected the most points in the state school, and that's that, I'm still until 70. No, state lawyers have to educate themselves throughout their careers, and that's something I expect the attorney general to work on. And most importantly, I expect that even more effort than his predecessors have made to fight crime. I expect him to understand the importance of the cases exposed. The cases exposed are those cases that define public perception of the persecution of crimes in the Republic of Croatia. Statistics that show how secure this country is, statistics that show how many petty con men and thieves are punished, unfortunately or fortunately do not interest anyone. For the perception of security, persecution of the most notorious perpetrators of criminal offences is important and the perception of security is often more important for citizens than real security that comes from statistical data alone, citizens do not read statistics. That's why I'm going to end up here, from the state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia, I expect the attorney general to change the way he communicates with the public. The times of the buttoned-up prosecutors are in the past. Thank you, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80236	Thank you, too. Let's go to the next debate, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80237	I'd like to ask you about one, I don't know if you'd call it an affair or whatever, but mostly it happened that Wikileaks published... Say what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Will the candidate come? If he was this morning, and now he's gone, what's the point of this debate? Mr. Bosnjakovic, where's our candidate? He's gone. And then I'm expected to comment on the candidate, so I can't do that. So what do I do? What do we do? So imagine, it's like coming to a job interview, potential employers are there, at least 76 of them you have to convince, and you say I have more important things to do. That's what happened today. Well, it's an unserious candidate for Minister Bosnjakovic. Is it possible that this debate is actually too high? That the candidate is already predetermined and that in fact this is all we're doing, we're just doing pro-forme? Is that possible, Minister dear? It's possible. I'm really surprised by this behavior, someone's going to say who's optimistic, say they have more important things to do. And someone who's pessimistic is going to say it isn't permanent, he doesn't really care about what we think about him and I'm going to tell you briefly my opinion about him, and that's that if he's lazy to come here at all to introduce himself, to answer questions, to communicate, then I don't see why he would support him, and for that reason I won't support him. I think it's a minimum, not only of professionalism, but of culture, and it actually shows how it takes place in the ruling party, it just pre-arranges everything, we can argue there, here's the poor people who came to the debate, there's a lot behind me, they can argue until the day of judgment, none of it. That's all the Germans say Zeitverschwendung. It's a waste of time. We just found ourselves in some sort of, what I'd call this situation at all. I'd call this one theater where we're performers, performers who like we should do our part, as a discussion, and basically all for nothing. And the result, the outcome is known in advance. And so it's very common with the law, the laws come here as a debate, and basically about them debates, I think there are discussions, but the debate is irrelevant to whoever proposes, it's all technically done and that's it. Time's running out, but you know what I'm gonna tell you? Well, that's what DORH generally does. Where he was supposed to be gone, when he was supposed to come, he came in late, sometimes from four years old, sometimes from one day, that interesting case was where in one day he was too late to process, but too late, one day. And it's an amateurism very, very unserious approach. Even parliamentary deputies, otherwise the debates are more or less people are absent, now there are quite a lot of MPs, but even our arrival couldn't affect an esteemed gentleman to respond, to hear what the MPs think. And I now call upon the ruling majority's representatives not to support him because of this man's relationship. To tell you the truth, sir, you didn't do well to present yourself to us at all, you don't respect us, this is not correct of you. However, of course, you will vote for him, unanimously, as always, the only question is whether it will be 77 or 76 hands. What they're going to say is that everything I do is actually pointless, it's the biggest paradox in the whole story, and what's important in all of this is that you have people's support for it, that the people vote for this policy, support it in a critical number. So the critical mass of citizens supports such a system of governance, both the country and the institutions, and the result of such governance, we can all see. So I'd like to ask, since there's no gentleman here, I thought at least I'd meet him, but here's the thing, too. So I wanted to ask Minister Bosnjakovic then, we only have one question for you. Many citizens believe Croatia is a corrupt country. I wonder if you think Croatia has done enough to fight corruption? Or rather, whether you are satisfied with the fight against corruption by judicial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80238	Thank you, fellow Pernar. Just one piece of information, one explanation. So the potential candidate for this place, as well as everyone who will just be voted in the Croatian Parliament, cannot attend the plenary session, he was on the Justice Committee today, there were members and board members and all MPs who wanted to meet, see or ask the candidate for state attorney, could have been on board. So it's not Mr. Jelinic's fault, I think it's important to say it for the public, he just couldn't be here today, and he was on the board. It's just that information. Now it's my dear colleague Tomislav Sokol's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80239	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, not Mr. Jelinic, but Mr. Minister, Madam Assistant, fellow MPs. So today we're talking about a variety of topics, mostly to collect daily political points, it's perfectly natural, but I'd like to try to talk a little bit about the broader context of the state's attorneyship and maybe some reasons other than within the state's attorney's office and a broader framework that leads to certain problems being perceived in public. The fact is that the perception of DORH's work is pretty bad, we know that, especially in these so-called cases, known objects, it's very often the slowness, the abolition of decisions, the return to previous stages, etc. However, in order to understand the context in which the DORH operates, I think we need to explain a little bit and say something about the legislative framework, which is the key law, the Criminal Procedure Act. So in 2008, Croatia made a major reform of the criminal procedure when instead of an inquisition model where investigative judges have here let's say a key word about the investigative part of the procedure, a large part of the responsibility, transferred jurisdiction to the state's attorneys. So she introduced this... approach where state lawyers have a much more active role and much greater powers than they had until then. Now, in that case, we have two principles that come into mutual cohesion, meaning the principle of efficiency, speed of action, economics, and the second principle is the principle of protecting the defendants and the right to defend them. Sadly, the law that was passed at that time showed a number of shortcomings and therefore was abolished by the Constitutional Court or by a number of its provisions of as many as 43 articles. And right then, we came to the point that from one procedure when the process of the many large fishes started, what they would say, precisely because of these changes to the law and later the new laws that were caused and that decision of the Constitutional Court led to these proceedings being drawn apart. Because the fact is that efficiency and speed are important but it can't go to the core defense right. And that's the imbalance, and that's the situation we have today and today, and we've had both later and through many amendments to the law, etc. And that's what needs to be explained. So there is a reason why there are fundamental human rights, why there is a right to defence and it has its own historical weight and historical development, and the fundamental cause of the defence rights is that an individual is protected from the excessive authority of the state and the excessive powers, especially the executive authorities. And in that part, the fact is that it can also lead, in some cases, to aggravation of procedures, to the return of decisions to the first degree, and ultimately to one of the decisions that we mentioned, the known decisions on the INA-MOL case have just been abolished because of the violation of these fundamental principles, and that is something that needs to be highlighted. The fact that the current legislative framework has proved to be quite lacking, there have been many problems in practice, and I am calling on the minister to do so, I know that he is also considering one of the necessary redefining of the entire system, the very criminal procedure and the demand for a new balance between the fundamental right of defence and the very principle of efficiency and the processing of criminal offences. And I think it's a framework within which the state's attorney's office will definitely have to deal with a new head of state. Another thing I would say, and what is often said is the issue of the autonomy of the state's attorney's office. So the state's attorney's office has a very high autonomy to decide whether to act on criminal charges at all, whether to lead to an investigation, whether to reject criminal charges, whether to make deals in certain cases in order to catch bigger numbers with some indictees in order to catch bigger fish than they would say, etc. What is happening here, however, is also due to certain tensions of misunderstanding and different interpretations in the case-law itself. What I find extremely important is that this decision-making process of the state attorney's office becomes as transparent and as possible, that all decisions be fully explained and that it is clear in the event that the state's attorney's office has made any decision on the processing or not processing that these decisions are very and transparent and clear and that everyone is clear what it was about. We also heard on the board that these decisions have been made quite often for a very long time, that some criminal applications have been decided for four years, as some of our fellow parliamentary representatives have said, I have no doubt of their source of information, that is something that should certainly be changed. I think that such a situation for the sake of legal certainty and for the protection of fundamental rights is inadmissible, that the state's attorney's office should certainly work here on perception, especially so that it doesn't turn out that the state's attorney is selectively processing some cases, and other cases of what we said are held in the drawer. So I believe that's not the case, but it certainly is necessary to have a more transparent decision-making process, always a reasoned decision, and also to see through statistics how long it takes for the state's attorney to decide on some criminal application. Also, what I would particularly like to say, and what has been mentioned many times today, and what is rarely mentioned, and that is the question of the civil department. I would draw attention here to the fact that the state's attorney's office represents the Republic of Croatia in many cases, and there are results that could be better. So, specifically, 40% of the lawsuits in which the state's attorney is representing the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia lost. Of course, there are a lot of reasons for this, these are very complex issues from the very process from the very conduct of the state bodies that may have delayed some procedures more than they should, etc., but I certainly think that this process can be improved. I would especially point out, and I know that such cases are in practice that often happens that some of the procedures where the state is being sued, where they can't get them to break up practically to the end of a powerful verdict, which means additional costs for the state, means additional tight interest that they are going, and on the other hand it doesn't allow legal entities to make physical and legal persons realize their claims to the state within a reasonable period of time. I don't think that's good, I think we should definitely analyze why it comes to that. And also one thing that would be good in future reports, which I have not seen in the 2016 report, is that it is also clear how much of the state we actually have to pay the tight interest in these procedures. I think the numbers, my impression, are subjective, but I don't have full information, quite large, and that's something to work on anyway. It means additional personnel teaming of civil departments, additional monitoring of the procedures themselves, and also better communication with the state authorities themselves in order to jointly decide when a procedure is to be suspended, to make a deal or something like that. I would also like to mention the procedure and the role of the state's attorney's office in connection with the European arrest warrant. We remember a few years ago we had certain procedures where the state's attorneys actually found themselves in a paradoxical situation. On the one hand, it had to represent the state that issued the order on the one hand, on the other hand, it had to respect its constitutional and legal obligation to protect the law, or its interpretation of the law. We had a situation at the time that the state's attorney's office actually acted against, in some way, the interest or demands that these orders had been issued, and that means some state's attorney's office in one direction and some in the other direction. I think that double role is quite problematic, it's actually paradoxical. I think something professional literature wrote about it, and it's something that should also be considered how to deal with it. The fact is that we had a new law on judicial cooperation in 2015, where this explicit provision is that the State's attorney is represented by the issuing state, however, remains de facto the state's attorney's office which must execute that role. So this is about a paradoxical situation that can lead to disputes like that and a lot of strange legal situations, legal constraints that they had in those known cases of handing over certain suspects to Germany, or the defendants. So I think that these are some things that need to be dealt with as well as the state as legal, as well as the legislator and all of us together and the Ministry of Justice, but these are also the challenges that the new chief state attorney should face. Anyway, as far as everything else is concerned, not to repeat myself, of course, I support it means, as much as possible, an increase in the budget, i.e. the resources for the state's attorney's office, in particular the USKOK which we know is working in very difficult conditions, which must deal with a wide range of very complex cases, so that it would also be interesting to consider and that it might narrow down the competence of the USKOK that they can really concentrate on the most important subjects that are actually being put in place. But also, I think we should avoid situations that maybe sometimes the BOOK goes too far in some ways of investigation that may not be necessary, but really put what is most important in priority. That way, no action will be taken, and final decisions will be better. As for the candidate himself, so I read the résumé, I think that's enough information for each of the MPs to be sure of his references. I don't think there's anything suspicious about it, and I think as a man who knows the system, who knows the functioning of the state's attorney's office should certainly give him a chance, and here, I support him this way and wish him good luck in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80240	Four replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80241	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said you'd judge the i.e. that the Constitutional Court, by reason of the principle, has essentially annulled the judgment in the case of INA Mol. Well, of course it's the Constitutional Court and the entire judiciary, the people won't believe it, nor will they believe it, nor will they believe it in the state's attorney's office because of family ideology, not birth, that you don't get me wrong. Of course, we all know there's a godfather named Vladimir Shakespeare at the head of the Constitutional Court. This can be confirmed here by Mr. Bačić or the minister and the whole system is controlled and, of course, the system is activated in the abuse of the protection of public goods. There's nothing weird about this case of INE. This isn't about the judiciary anymore. Here is the problem of family ideology within the judiciary and therefore the people do not trust the judiciary or the state's attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80242	Thank you. Comrade Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80243	Thank you very much. Well, here's colleague Bull, I think you really see Mr. Shakespeare everywhere you walk. So, from one topic to the next, to the third, always Mr. Shakespeare. So I wouldn't really go into guessing who's with who, and I wouldn't really comment on specific objects. I don't think it's necessary or good, especially when it comes to an object that's still going on. So, I'm stressing it again, it's not legally completed in the sense that the gentleman in question is being released, but that process is still going on. As for the very standards of protection of fundamental rights, one of them, I wouldn't go back into your speculation about some kind of relationship, conspiracy, etc., but I would point out that exactly one of the fundamental problems is what I said. So, the legislative framework that is as it is, where the Constitutional Court has abolished parts of the CAP, where it has changed precisely because of this tension between the one hand, the right to defence and the need for an effective procedure. And I just think that this legislative framework is one of the main reasons why we're in this situation. You should consider improving it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80244	Thank you. A second replica of a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80245	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear fellow Sokol, you have touched an extremely important topic in your debate, which is how the state's attorney's office represents the interests of the Republic of Croatia and something that has proved to be approximately 40% of the cases. But in practice, however, there are other things that show up, and that is to say that there is even a complaint where it is known to be lost and there is a pragmatic relationship. Like, I'm complaining, so I wouldn't want to get involved here right now. I think it's an absolutely important topic, a topic which, of course, the appointment of a top state attorney is also inciting such a debate, but certainly one issue that needs to be taken care of, which should be accompanied by attention, with the amendment of the next legislation for the simple reason that we need to know that there will be millions of litigation at the door, which in dollars, which, in some other and there, we will have to really keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80246	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80247	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, that's exactly what I was aiming for. So, in some cases, I know from personal experience, practically from the first hand, that the procedures are going longer than they should and then go, and that's why I said, let's say, it would be very useful to see how tight the government's interest rates are because in such procedures that might have been over before. And that's exactly what I mentioned to the Justice Committee when we talked to the candidate for a new chief state attorney. What I'd like to point out here is that it's the most often shared responsibility. So, on the one hand, you have a state attorney's office representing, which gives its legal opinion, but you also have certain state bodies that, for some reason, do not want to complete the procedure. And there's always a question of that balance, but I also think that the state's attorney's office in many cases, if it wanted to, could actually, through its legal opinion, force the state's authorities to give up procedures that cannot be obtained. And what I would point out is one of the priorities that is often mentioned in civil law is more settlements, more peaceful dispute resolution, and I think there's a big space for progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80248	Third replica, dear colleague Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80249	Dear fellow Sokol. I can see you're inclined to get your hands on it, and you're trying to let yourself understand how the shape, but also the real life, how it all works together in real life. Among other things, what I want to isolate, you've also mentioned the poor perception of DORH's work, so here's when you try to make an impression that you understand the form, I see that you know, but also the real life how it works, what do you see the reason for this poor perception? Is this about DORH's ineffectiveness or something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80250	Thank you, colleague Orepić, for asking, I had no idea that I had the impression that I was trying to reach out, that Mr Bulj and I had a certain way of communicating, and I don't think he resented me, nor did I. As for poor perception, I think there are more reasons. One of the reasons was stated by a colleague named Grbin, and here I can even agree with him, and that's the question of how to communicate. We very often have a situation that information may not come in the right way, not to communicate in time, not to communicate in a way that would be understandable to citizens, and that is something where work should certainly be done. Also, unfortunately, now, it is difficult to discuss what causes, that certain social groups believe that the state's attorney's office in some cases acted selectively, that what I said in the debate, that there were no criminal charges in time, that somewhere it went much faster, and that's something that the state's attorney's office is doing through even more transparent action, reasoning, statistics, etc. I need to explain whether it is or not. That's what I mentioned in the debate. But there's a lot of reasons now, so we can talk about it by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80251	Thank you. And the last replica, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80252	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, assistant. Comrade Sokol, you cited all the examples when there was a failure in the work of the state's attorney's office and you said what should be done to make it work better and better. So I would just like to add that there are also those things that have fallen significantly, and in previous times they have been permanent and current and there have been violations of fundamental freedoms and human rights, which has been a leak of information from the state's attorney's office and from the MUP. To this day, we have not seen anyone sanctioned and that proceedings have been carried out against those who, first and foremost, have provided transcripts of concrete cases and major affairs of journalists. And those transcripts came out in the paper. That's what's inadmissible and that's what's destroying the foundations of the judiciary, that can't happen, and the new state's attorney has to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80253	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80254	Thank you, colleague Djakic. Well, that's exactly one of these things I was aiming at when I mentioned that impression of the public, the impression of selectivity. Because if you release some information through informal channels and you retain others, of course you prefer some of the defendants or some who wish to accuse others of harming others and the damage of public interest. It's not good, it violates institutions, trust in institutions, and that's one of the reasons why we're here. So one of the things I certainly expect from the new future, if elected, the chief state attorney, that such a practice never happens again, and in that sense I fully agree with you, so here is one of the elements for the response and fellow Orepic, who I did not get to mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80255	We're moving on with individual debates. Dear colleague Dodig, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80256	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Assistant Minister. I stayed this long to participate in an individual debate by trying to, at least symbolically give meaning to the subject we are talking about today. In that context, I as a non-legal, as a man with modest or almost no knowledge from the legal profession, looked at what it really means to be a state attorney's attorney, but because of that, I looked at what I was as a parliamentary representative tomorrow in a position to raise my hand to the state's attorney or not to raise my hand. So when it says there that it is an organisation that has 15 county attorneys, 22 municipal, corruption control office and organised crime as a special work of the state's attorney's office, and that in the description of their affairs it must prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences, take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, combat corruption and organised crime and prosecute war crimes. From all of this, it is a very, very important institution that deserves special attention. In addressing the public of the state's attorney, I don't know if it's still today or tomorrow it might not be, probably won't be, Mr Cwitan, among other things he says that, in addition to the general facts for the successful work of the Croatian State's Attorney's Office, citizens' trust is also needed. I'll only hold on to that one or two more problems that were mentioned here. Trust of the citizens. What's this about? It's been found several times here that we don't trust citizens. And not only the state's attorney's office, probably no institution, nor this Parliament. The question is, how did that happen? Is that for objective reasons, if it is, what are your objective reasons and is there any other reason why it is? He's got objective reasons. There are serious objections to the work of the state's attorney's office and not just from now on, but by abstracting even these individual dissatisfactions or not just individual dissatisfactions with certain procedures of the state's attorney's office, there is one detail which is now mentioned by Djakic, a leak of information from the state's attorney's office. If there's an institution where this shouldn't happen, then it's really the state's attorney's office. And if you weren't... No reason for public mistrust in that institution, then this is enough reason why mistrust must exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Confidence. Cvitan says we must trust the citizens. This is one of the objective reasons I see as a lawyer, and lawyers probably see a lot more. But trust is a two-way relationship, a two-way relationship. What does that mean exactly? It specifically means that in order to create trust, one who is wanted to trust has to have confidence in the citizens. Many processes have occurred in this institution so important that it is underestimating the citizens in a way that a story about perception and trust is pushed to the extent that no one is sure of what it is, but we are all inclined to take it as a operating or dysfunctional parameter in this House. So we'll say, the citizens' trust that this country is going the wrong way is 15%. So let's say, the mistrust of these citizens in the institution, in this House is 50% or whatever. For the tenth time in this House, I've said it was an imposed story we've bought. Trust is gentlemen note, which is different in each individual. This isn't politics anymore, this is an exact profession. I beg you, that you can't expect people to have trust in what you say if you keep spreading mistrust. You have the right to criticise, you have the right to warn of mistakes, but this one systemic mistake of trust or mistrust based on polls is a completely false story that will lead us into dangerous chaos. In an unrelated conversation, counterpart Orepic said that the Republic of Croatia is not in a crisis but is in a mess. I beg him, was that exactly what was said? And I absolutely agree with that. It is, this trust spoken of or mistrust is a way of bringing Croatia into a mess. No one wants to say here that this is about, that there are no irregularities in the functioning of the Croatian state and there are major irregularities. But this is used as a general information of irregularities, one statistical story of trust or mistrust is absolutely wrong and leads us to an even bigger mess. The other thing I'd like to say is that there's been political pressure on the state's attorney's office that probably has everywhere in the world. However, we forget that in a certain way we are already putting pressure on a future state attorney. We're already telling him that even though it's not his fault, what's been done, which isn't. It's not a warning of something that wasn't done but simply a civic duty is that it's good to warn that something didn't happen that had to happen. But saying in advance that politics is going to be the one to tell him what he's going to do, that's not good. The security that was discussed here and the perception of security, where my colleague Grbin was talking about, I think again based on perception, is the question of what kind of security it is. Is this about job security? Is this about the accomplished, their psychological sense of security? Is this about blocked, their sense of security? All of this has an impact on general security. So when it comes to security, then we have to take care of exactly what kind of security we're talking about. That's what we're afraid of or not, it's hard to talk about. In any case, it's not good, Minister, because of the procedure, I accept that it is, but it's not good that we can't ask the question of a future state attorney no matter who passed that rule, I don't think it's good because it's hard for me to explain to people why I voted for that man tomorrow. But you know why I'm voting? Because I trust you, because I know you. Delegated authority, it is never good to have a judgment in someone's decision because good functioning requires a legal system, and it is also necessary to have a direct impression of what kind of man it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80257	Thank you very much. Once again, there was a gentleman on the board who'd be running for state's attorney tomorrow. The Rules of Procedure allow every MP and every MP to go to the board, talk, ask, listen, and this is not planned at the plenary session. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80258	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Dodig, you have mentioned trust and mistrust many times in your presentation. So I want to ask you, you said that the state's attorney, the state's attorney, is a persecutor of the perpetrator of war crimes crimes in the economy and everything. However, what is the perception of the people of Croatia today and how you see it, if we listened to a colleague of Glavas and listened to the example of Osijek, and you were in that system in prison and I would like to hear from you a little comparison of today's judiciary and the previous judiciary. Does it have anything to do with it and does it do something like that or does something change? I trust this government, of course, and I believe this today, I'm talking about this government being moved here and we're going to go to one to say legal battle and be once and for all to become a legal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80259	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80260	... And that's the fundamental thing I want to talk to you about today, what I wanted to talk about. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I don't know what trust it is, I'm communicating with maybe a couple thousand people. A few thousand people, seriously, communicate in one way or another. There are people who say, who have different grades about it, but when someone serves you the information that 70% of the citizens are not trusting the state institutions, then you have to imagine. If there is, I'll list more mistakes in the functioning of this country than anyone else might count. But I can't make peace with the fact that it's constantly manipulated with statistics that are problematic. This system we believe to be democratic has shown many deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80261	Time, thank you. Now we're going to the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80262	Thank you very much. Dear Professor, you said you didn't trust the system, i.e. in this case, the State Attorney's Office, I believe that the system is well complex as it was agreed by the stakeholders, because it was drawn up by stakeholders, and we can return in case when arrested, located, transferred the most prominent Croatian defenders to HAAG, Gotovina and others, that the biggest robbery was committed and that then the institutions and the state's attorneys and the judiciary were not working on the robbery of Croatian strategic and strategic interests, but rather how to arrest the most prominent generals and courteous EU, HAAG, Bruxell officials. I'd just like to ask you a quick question. How do you observe the fact about Dr. Ivan Schreter, who is missing and who is not aware of the bones where the state's attorney's office has done nothing until now, and not a point in the agenda that I have suggested as a gift of peace, will not put the president in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80263	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80264	Comrade Bull, otherwise we're at Miro. I understand what you're saying. The answer to how I look at what hasn't been processed or at least possible perpetrators of the crime against Dr. Shrek, I don't think you need to answer, so you know him. It's a terrible thing. So there's no doubt about it. But I would ask you sometimes to suggest to me what to do, what to do in a specific case? We'll talk all the time about what was wrong... Suggest, I'll always be there for that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80265	I'm asking you not to disturb the representative from speaking. Third replica. Dear colleague Vlaho Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80266	Dear colleague Dodig. I always love to hear and hear from you with interest and joy. The key word is trust. But the lack of arguments can't be taken as an argument, it's very clear to you, nor the power and argument that comes exclusively from authority can we take in the decision-making process. I'll ask you the same question. Is mistrust in the DORH due to its ineffectiveness or is it due to some kind of created perception? And that's what we need to make up our mind to make a good decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80267	Thank you very much for this question, and that's the real question. The consequence of mistrust is both. So it's not working properly, but it's also creating a situation. Maybe she's even worse than we think, but based on that mistrust to the public, we can't judge it, we can't. That would require a broader analysis. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80268	Let's move on. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80269	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's a subject that can certainly open a series, a series of things to talk about and a few words to say. I will in this debate touch a few topics. One topic that Honorable fellow Sokol mentioned, and that's the job of the state's attorney's office let's be honest and see how wide the diapason of work is and that we're ready for certain amendments to the law, in this primarily and fundamentally, I mean the part where the state's attorney represents the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I can tell you in two, three minutes one case we've had, it's about to happen and it's going to be more and more. An investor in the Republic of Croatia came in, not with the desire to invest because he knew he could not invest, but with the desire to try to earn something at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, he received one piece of paper of very unusual content at the level of local self-government, so responsibility for it is also the state. He sued the Republic of Croatia, sued in a court of law in London and I must admit that it was one of the disputes that we received, of course in the media he took relatively little space because he was, so if we lost he'd probably taken a lot more, but the Republic of Croatia got that slow. She only got that slow synergy of everyone. So it was a synergy of a resolute ministry which was about one cubic of all possible evidence and material to show what it was about. The same thing was the whole conversation with the state's attorney's office, and of course we had an appropriate lawyer who we had to, or a lawyer's house that we had to hire. Here's what I'm deliberately saying in a few sentences or two, three minutes to figure out the amount of work that's going on. It's about the DORH headed by the state's chief attorney who's an institution. Our citizens have lost confidence in the institution. Look at the way they judge us at all, and they don't trust the institutions because as long as we have certain convictions. So let's be honest and say so it's not easy being the head of state's attorney in the Republic of Croatia. We already know in advance and already know in advance what will not work well, why it will not work well, and it is an extremely important, demanding and physical and psychologically difficult job. And we have to honestly say in this debate that the choice of a top state attorney and that someone who decides to take this responsible job at the moment when he decides to take this responsible job must be reconciled with his private life, must reconcile with a number of things and enter into some other spheres that we have opportunities to see and read in the media. What in this sense can we do to help, to restore somehow faith in the work of institutions? We can make us respect procedures, we can respect some hodograms, we can actually show ourselves how to do it. And that's why it's not good that at the last minute we get that on Monday all the media are full of debate is who's gonna be the government's proposal for a top state attorney, so of course there's a lot of names and everyone pulls out certain candidates, and then pulls out and whose candidates they are. Equally, it is not good for the 2015 DORH Work Report, 2016 on Friday to decide that it will be on the agenda on Wednesday, there was no reason not to do so before and not to judge it both by good and bad and like this and that this is the day before we vote. Now, there's always a question of why it is, if that's what you decide then actually we're all talking about procedure, we're saying that we've been brought in at some time that's not appropriate, we're not discussing the core somehow and what it should be, so it goes to the soul of those who suggested it, and I'm going to repeat it for a simple reason for me to think that when there's a clear hodogram, when there's a procedure that we respect is then incomparably easier for us. As soon as we don't have a hologram, as soon as we don't have a procedure, then we get into another situation. And something to think about and what to take care of further, the world changes. What was worth today was not worth ten years ago, and even less will be worth in the next five or six years. A little look at Cambridge's analysis of what has led to in the world where what has been made public and what is then taken as a fact that has actually been shown in the way we come to information, in the way that all lives and all private lives have suddenly become publicly available to everyone and in the context of that, I would like only a few sentences to be warned and I think the time has come for the state's attorney and it seems to me somehow one of the tasks of the new chief state attorney around which we, as we said in the club, will personally be restrained, are some things that need to be taken care of. So a way for the state's attorney's work to be more public than it is now, to be more open, to be more transparent. And there's one more thing that we've completely forgotten, and it's a matter of education, a matter of education, a thing of continuous education, it seems to me that if you put more into it to make things easier for us. What we're all saying, and I'm sure the task of the state's attorney's office, and that's in equal practice, that we know about what kind of practice it is in the Republic of Croatia, then I think that some of the verdicts would be significantly less under the bat of the public or that at least we wouldn't get different judgments for the same case. So there are certainly a number of topics in the work of the State Attorney's Office that when you have a work report, you can open them, but when you're also discussing a new chief state attorney then no matter what it takes to be at a plenary session, sometimes it's not bad to listen to some parliamentary MPs, not just because they're going to speak in advance I don't even know negatively but for a simple reason with a desire to improve the work. This work can be improved, in a way, that when you have some strong, whistled processes, that you are actually very operational and that you end these processes very quickly. So that's one message, that's a message, that actually you, a serious process with someone, who's highly whistled and with some kind of name, try to close it relatively quickly, not the cases that we've had, and when you're having a little conversation with your colleagues or at the USCOC or at the State's Attorney's office, then says I have a whole room, all kinds of materials. And we're not just not getting the charges, so even in those cases, we don't even get the charges. I really don't want to convict in any way, I guess it'll be quite enough, to vote, tomorrow is the new Chief Attorney of State, I wish him every good. Of course, I want him to be better than the last one every time, so that everything that's previous, say, bad or wrong, I don't want to make those mistakes again. But I'm kind of getting closer, a few things we should learn as a lesson. One lesson would be, indeed, if it were the State's Attorney, to name it that number of years, to be in one term, and perhaps a year before the end of the term, it would be approximately seen which direction is further. I usually think it's a good methodology for someone, somehow, to be educated and educated, to continue some kind of stock of the way. I think I love all sorts of sports and one of the things I love to watch is the staff. At the staff, the best staff is the one who gives the fastest and the fastest, where the 4 are, if we run, so I say, when running and swimming, when they're all equally good and equally fast. Likewise in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, good work of the State's Attorney General, also characterizes the work of his deputies for individual portfolios. So in principle, I don't think it's a bad choice way for someone who was a deputy to inherit g. The state's attorney, but it wouldn't be good if, in fact, when the new one came, the next deputy was breathing down his neck and seeing himself in his place, because then there were some predispositionses, that maybe it wasn't all going to be successful around Mr. Jelinic, I'd be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80270	Thank you. We've got five replicas, first mate of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80271	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Taritash, I thought I'd give this question and a replica to my colleagues, Curaya, but he withdrew an individual debate. So when we're talking about this whole debate here, the last 20 minutes, it's been about whether it's a problem of perception of the work of the State's Attorney's office or really a problem of efficiency and openness. That's why I'm going to get caught in a particular case, a criminal application, which Minister of Economy Tomislav Panenic raised in August 2016 against a responsible person at the Ministry of Economy, which is probably former Minister Vrdoljak. It is about the results of monitoring the procedures for public calls for the grant of 2015 means from the time of the Government you were in, in which Minister Vrdoljak was in, where we have a situation to make certain applications have not been opened, that all applications have not been evaluated, etc. [[Invasion: Time of fellow Grumoja]] And I would ask you, how do you comment that we don't have a result at all yet, that the DORH didn't say if he was rejecting that application and whether it had something to do with the formation of this government and those checkpoints that Vladimir Seks mentioned in the formation of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80272	Comrade Thunderbolt, you've lost 25 seconds of time. I'm asking you not to do that. ... It's all by law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80273	Thank you very much, given that I only have 1 minute, I won't be able to answer everything Mr. Thundery asked. I would say for a piece of his replica, that he still needs to be addressed in the second part, in the second part of this assembly, I can't give an answer there. Therefore, I will still have to refer that question to one another, another, there may be opportunities in these individual discussions. But really important and perception of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, it's important to be quick, to be effective, but in that part and it's important to know clearly that they are publicly available, because then there will be a much less question. Maybe that's already settled, but of course, I can't give you an answer there, the answer is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80274	Another replica, dear colleague of Sladolev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Taritasha, you spoke of the trust of the institution, I agree with you here. However, we had an institution, which the citizens had trust, which I think is phenomenal, which is an independent tax BOOK. So these are the people who were trained in America and who, come on, the Croatian government wanted in some way to drown in the Ministry of Finance, which we fought hard for, that it didn't happen, and fortunately it didn't happen. And in public perception, therefore, that institution has excellent results, and here, the trial in Osijek, which we have both the result of these people and not just that. So that we institutions that trust the Croatian public, in some ways we want to bring them down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80276	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80277	Thank you very much. I agree with you. So we have to put our faith back in the citizens of the institutions. But there is one way you can get it back. Not only are people being educated outside, so we have, we show how it actually works, and something out there can work for us, but when it comes to justice and when it comes to justice, then it can be returned at the speed of solving individual disputes and individual cases. I absolutely allow that every time and speed is not the right way. However, if you quickly resolve, if you have the opportunity, to quickly press charges, to go to disputes, not to delay disputes, then you will actually restore trust in institutions, because people will see, well, in a year they have condemned someone or in half a year someone, and no, it has been three years and there is nothing to be charged with.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80278	Let's go three replicas, colleague Orepic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80279	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'll imagine a little bit that I'm one of those who knows how the DORH works and how hard it is to work but we just can't go in that direction and argue with the fact that it's difficult, we have to diagnose the situation and we have to change things. Our citizens don't get the favor they expect. It's up to us to simply find what it is that needs to change, change right away, whether it's hard or not. Here, I just wanted to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80280	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80281	Thank you very much. I somehow always think that in the debates a man should also detect all the facts and in doing so be fair so no matter what side of this assembly he sits on, whether this is the work of the rulings or not. There are really some jobs that are not simple but things need to be changed. Among other things, our mission here is to change, I am absolutely certain that the debate on the attorney general lasted in a way that it was one longer period of time or if certain things had been respected, we would not have discussed and left that doubt. I was on the board today where a gentleman scratched his nose and a lady who was there said I'm a psychologist and I don't trust you when you scratch your nose, that means you're lying. Now, it would be good to have as little as possible in our discussions as possible these body speeches where you're actually formally behind something and you're doubting it yourself, and I don't see why we're opening our hips where we're not supposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80282	Thank you. Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80283	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Anka, it's normal for people to really lose confidence in our judiciary, I'm going to take an example. A month and a half after I became mayor, more precisely now I found the data, August 22, 2016, I sent a criminal application against the former mayor of Vrgorec and his advisor who had a medium professional training which the mayor had employed indefinitely in the position of counsellor without systematicisation, without a reception plan, without competition. And a million kunas paid him his salary. So since 2016 that criminal application has been standing, we've delivered everything neatly, so the reception plan that wasn't there, there was no competition, there was no systematicisation, so it's as simple as if I hired you as mayor as an advisor on an indefinite basis, paying you monthly salary. and we delivered all this neatly on 20 August 2016. I don't have an answer until today, and normally, every day when I meet my citizens and my fellow citizens, they ask me what's going on with my criminal charges. And what am I going to do, fold my shoulders... And then we talk about the trust that people believe in the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80284	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80285	Thank you very much. Indeed, that trust and mistrust depend on us all. And when it comes to justice at all, then it's one of the reasons why we can return to improve efficiency. It's absolutely one of the methods to restore citizens' trust. I'm always trying to tell some stories that you're going through and like you told this. So in the Ministry of Construction, one of the major problems was a lengthy second-degree procedure where from the moment the appeal was sent to the solution it lasted between 9 and 12 months. And of course it was time, it was the general space where someone called someone, so they were always wrapped up in the veil of secrets, we managed to solve it between 30 and 60 days. Once it all started to work, no one called anyone else. That's when the system works. And so our interest should be to make the system work, to be efficient, and to be faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80286	Thank you. My friend, you're the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80287	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, all day long and it is you who are now talking about the transparency or intransparentity of this process. I would remind you, all of us together, that the government, in accordance with the legal deadline before the current current state attorney Dinko Cwitan's term of office, sent a proposal for a new candidate for state attorney. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the home working body of the Justice Committee discussed it, and we are now discussing it at the plenary session and I hope that it will be elected before the deadline of the current state attorney. I would remind you that 4 years ago when you were part of the ruling majority and part of the government, this Parliament also supported the work of former lawyer Mladen Bajic, we adopted his reports, then your government whose member you were without any explanation of the proposal for Mr Dinko Cwitan and we were then in HDZ as opposition representatives, we did not call for transparency... We supported it because we thought it was the government's right to propose a chief state attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80288	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80289	Thank you very much, colleague Bačić. Thank you very much for coming back again. Here's some time we haven't used what you are. So be better. So be different, so show what some government used to do, it's not good and you're doing different. So no one is two in the fact that you have the right to suggest but we absolutely have the right to establish what is true. On Monday, not some Monday, all the media and all the TVs were full of hints about who it would be, and then there was a big surprise. On Wednesday, we discussed the report for 2015, 2016, we are discussing a new one and we will vote on this on Friday. All of this could have been done for some long time, and I say every time there is no Secretary of Staff, it means that the lack of a minister means that he doesn't appreciate enough or the law he has proposed or the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80290	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80291	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, here's to me saying a few words for the end. Given that I spoke on behalf of the club for 15 minutes today, I would just briefly look back on the fact that there was criticism on my right hand side, or on the left hand side of the assembly, and I can only conclude that I am satisfied that the criticisms are coming from the SDP to my presentation, I believe that I hit the core in my debate and no one wants to discuss it. I've been represented in a lot of terms over the last 28 years by a lot of state lawyers and what have I noticed during all those years or situations when the state's attorneys have been changing? Less or less, it was no one or less who dared to criticise the work of the state's attorney's office as an institution, as well as the individual or head of the state institution. Every MP, every club went through a line of less resistance, pull a manual, don't mind a state attorney, don't mind the state's attorney's office, because one day it could break your head. It's something like that today. No one pointed to any problem, a particular problem within the state's attorney's office itself, which employs thousands of people. Well, it's not true that the DORH employs angels, saints without sin. In the state's attorney's office, the same are people of blood and meat with all their weaknesses and virtues, with mistakes and I think of 151, at least everyone can find one specific situation that deserves criticism from the parliamentary representative and, in general, the Croatian Parliament in the work of the state's attorney. That never happened. Personally, I have no fear of either the state's chief attorney or the DORH as a repressive state body for persecution. There's a lot of experience behind me, and I've felt both the sword and the blade and the strength of the DORH, but in me they haven't contained a sense of determination and a firm attitude that when I talk about that institution, I should speak critically. And in that tone, my exposure to the Parliament today was in the name of the club for 15 minutes. Generally, I have expressed my support and that the HDSSB, HSLS and HDS Club will vote for Mr Drazen Jelinić as chief state attorney, and in the follow-up debate, I have pointed to a concrete example that has been pushed under the carpet for years, which is the case of a deputy state attorney in Osijek, who I then gave my name and last name, now I will not, because it has already been widely known and I have not brought this up for the reasons of personal frustration that this person in the first judicial persecution in 2006-2009 was representing the indictment against me. Not for that reason, because this guy is completely irrelevant and irrelevant, whether he's acting as Deputy State Attorney, County State Attorney, County State Attorney or Deputy Attorney, my opinion won't change because I know the situation. All the facts I made during this morning's debate, I stand behind them. I gave them with the intention to be heard by the Croatian public, with the intention and the open calling of the security intelligence agency to call her to analyse my speech, she has all the information listed, manual numbers, dates, classification codes and may you choose to look, check what I said today. Is that true or not? If it's not true, OK. Have him run an additional security check. If true, the Security Intelligence Agency must inform the State Attorney's Council that there are people in the ranks of employees or officials of the State's Attorney's Office who simply cannot be part of the system for moral reasons. Mr. Stazic mentioned and said file a criminal report. So it's not my job to file criminal charges, but it's the job of the security intelligence agency and the state's attorney's board of attorneys to take care of who can and who can work, to behave in the state's attorney's office from the lowest levels, municipal, county, to the national level. What am I trying to say? Why do I support Mr. Jelenic? I support him for reasons, he was proposed by the government, I trust the government, but it made me support it without much thought, which is the fact that this man has been in the state's attorney's office since '92. A year. So it's not part of that old system until democratic changes, it's not the continuity of some old system, and now, although it has continued work, professional work in the state's attorney, I hope it will be independent in its work, not that it will be an exponent of the former state's chief attorneys, starting with Mr. Cvitan, and through Mr. Bajic, who are still the deputy attorney general today. I expect Mr. Jelenic to not do what Mr. Bajic did, and that he goes to foreign embassies, for example to the US Embassy in his own opinion. Mr. Bajic went to the US Embassy all those years, reporting to the US Embassy, intelligence from the US Embassy that the cases are being processed, at which stage, assessments of how they will end, which is inadmissible in one normal, democratic and modern state. When Mr Bajic was found out by the Croatian Parliament at that time, they should have resolved him at the same time. So, I expect Mr. Jelenić's independent work and that he does not make the mistakes of his predecessors. I'd like to look back on the percentage of 98% of the convictions. That percentage just says everything. Either it doesn't work in the state's attorney's office, or it's a beating in the hands of individuals, as they write a charge, it's going to be convicted or something doesn't work in the Croatian judiciary. That percentage doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It exists in Croatia. So if so, something does not work in the State's Attorney's Office or does not work in the Croatian judiciary or on either side and on the other side. There's something else I wanted to say, and let's say we arrive, the pressures the State's Attorney's Office is doing. The state's attorney's office has been constantly working on pressures in the conduct of such judicial proceedings, the initiation of that judicial sacrifice, the prominent individuals, no matter what political option this was concerned with, because they were both concerned with one and the other in certain political moments, filed criminal charges and filed charges against politically unspeakable people, who were then in opposition, in order to change for 4 years, in order to pass on to the new authorities and then turn their coat and change their tactics and strategy. I will only mention one of the freshest examples known in the Croatian public. In the event of a football case, these two football players Lovren and Modrić at a stage where no court proceedings have been completed and when a verdict or a first degree has not been issued, that it is inadmissible, that the State's attorney's office is filing criminal charges, that is, bringing the charges up for false testimony before the court gives its sentence. So here, I appeal to the new state attorney, if he did not participate, to remove that anomaly, to stop it and wait until the Croatian court, the County Court in Osijek, puts its final point on and in order to assess whether someone gave a false statement or did not give a false statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80292	Two are replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80293	Well, I'm going to be replicating my colleague, Glavas, since he mentioned a lot of questionable situations, which the State's Attorney's office was dealing with, and that's the fact that MPs were in public at some point and were talking about it. I'll remember the Doris Oak cases, Rijeka, how long the indictment was held for some items in the drawer and it wasn't activated. In this House we talked about what was going on in Koprivnica with the mayor, the cleaning man, and there was also a slave band with the mayor affecting it, that there were no charges, because how you're going against the husband and against the daughter that the mayor hired,... The mayor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These situations exist and they are inappropriate, they destroy the system, as well as a series of situations, war crimes, over Croatian civilians in Četikovac,... , Balenci, Voćino and all over Croatia, are not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80294	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80295	Yeah, that's an indication that there are anomalies in the state's attorney's office, not just those. I will use this replica, nepotism. Nepotism is a characteristic of the State's Attorney's Office, nepotism in the State's Attorney's Office exists, not rare cases, that the fathers of today's state's attorneys have spent the entire working life in the State's Attorney's Office. It's not rare that today's sons hire these fathers, but now their children in the State's Attorney's Office. And this case, too, of Mr. Miroslav Kraljević's deputy county attorney, can be particularly highlighted. Last year, Mr. Miroslav Kraljević, employed his daughter at the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Vukovar. Please nice, on what basis? Maybe the queen said she was the best student and the smartest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80296	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80297	Comrade Glavas, I would agree with you that within the institutions and the state's attorney's office there are monarchy systems, that, inherited from father to son, inherit the meaning of duty in the State's attorney's office. And also, I would agree with you that the State's Attorney's Office or a state's attorney to go to foreign ambassadors for counselling or giving out information is disastrous for one state, i.e. shows the state as a banana state. I ask you one question, you come from the neighborhood, where Doctor Ivo Schreter acted at the beginning of the Homeland War. The fact is we don't know about his bones yet, but we know about the participants of the negotiations, the state that... A bud, to solve this case of a peacemaker man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have proposed to this Parliament and the agenda to announce the day of peacemaker and Dr. Ivan Schreter. However, even the president of the parliament cannot put that agenda item on the agenda. So what do you think the role of the State's Attorney's office is in that case, how much politics and all the police have an impact on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80298	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you will now have a chance, you know that once a month, 30 MPs can request a item of the agenda, and you agree and then even if you don't want to, I have to classify the point. So you have a business opportunity, now that point comes to the agenda. ... We know well, I'm from that neighborhood, who's Dr. Schreter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80299	I personally don't have much information regarding Dr. Schreter's case, but I deeply, deeply believe that the State's Attorney's Office could have solved that they wanted to. They didn't want to solve that problem, because of what someone ordered them to do, leave it out of the way and stay out of it. The moment I was the person of the new war on the political scene in Croatia, then the mechanism started, had to replace Glavas, install his process, place him in court, put him in jail, and what would happen in 10, 15 years later we are not interested, Glavas is 65, 70 years old and will no longer be a political danger. So when I was in a situation, there was money, then there was political will, then there was professional knowledge and it came at me with all the means.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80300	The next is a respected colleague, Zekanovic, but he is not there, so he loses his right to speak. And then we go to the last individual debate, dear colleague Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80301	Dear Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It may be unrelated, but it's on the subject. Today, in a whole series of debates, I felt this political calculation, or self-censorship, what to say, what not to say, etc. And that's what I'm really worried about, and the worst thing that self-censorship has started again is the political wisdom. It is not political wisdom, and we must not go in this direction as a society. The key words that all discussions are about today, too, are trust, efficiency, continuity or negation of these concepts. In this hasty process, a more concrete debate really does not make sense, nor does it make sense to discuss the proposed candidate. Indeed, the form is well-sufficient, and man is expert, and there is none to add, nor taken away. So from this process of this proposed and such candidate of the argument made, we can clearly read the aim of the applicant. The aim of the proposal is to maintain continuity, to maintain the continuity of the situation as it is. The aim of the proposer is to maintain continuity in terms of alleged efficiency because we have not given sufficient arguments that this is all expensively effective, but one general consensus that we could conclude today that public perception is bad, or we can say and tie it to the word mistrust. So you suggest a person from the system, be careful first goes to second place, second goes to first place. And that's the second time that's happened. Please, I'm not talking about names and last names, and I have great respect for Mr. Cvitan and their colleagues and their work that's going on there, but I want to shed light on the environment where all this is happening together and what we need to deal with. So we choose the man who is part of this ineffectiveness, which is part of that mistrust. Whatever, but it is. I'm not really going to trouble a person, because it's not my goal, because I've really heard all about him and I have some personal experiences, so I'm not going to be around much, in the right direction, so I'm not gonna stick around. But I'm going to trouble this alleged efficiency. I want to look back on it. And I'm not really accusing you, but we have to say, the DORH isn't effective. Mostly because of the really inadmissible lack of both human and material potential, because of the working conditions in which these people work, that's true, that's the fact, and the DORH has a significant impact, it has significant limitations in that work. The DORH is not effective because we also have a lack of state where the state should be, and we have cases where the state interferes, where it shouldn't be at all. Also, DORH isn't effective, not because of what he did, he's done enough. But it's not effective because of what he didn't do and it's enough association to do what he didn't do, it's a process, I say Agrokor don't say about the moment, I'm not talking about the moment, I'm talking about a process that's been going on for years. We can put INA in the same basket. And DORH is not effective at last because mistrust is a basic perception. That's the facts. In conclusion, I won't be long, so we have some sort of continuity of mistrust and that's a fact. We have continuity of inefficiency, but all of these are, please, indicators not only of the DORH, but these are indicators of the bad, or the failure of the state itself. And when we observe and put some difficult circumstances on the DORH, we need to be aware that the DORH cannot be insulated because it simply lives the reality that it is and is related to all other institutions etc. And a whole series of restrictions that go in that direction. So I really believe that we need people outside that system, we need one mandate that will last 7 or 8 years, which allows for the efficiency of whoever decides to be effective and independent of politics. That is why I cannot support this choice, not because the proposed candidate is good or bad, but because this proposal has no ambition to change the existing situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80302	Thank you. There's no replica. Well, then we're going to the final exhibit. Dear fellow Bulj reported on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80303	Thank you very much, President. Honorable ministers with an assistant, fellow MPs and MPs. Once again, I will repeat what has been going on here all along, the people do not trust the institutions, primarily the judiciary, and in this work is the DORH and because of the way of elections that has a huge influence of politics and essentially politics determines who will be a state lawyer and it is time for this way to find the best possible way for politics to have as little influence as possible, as colleagues have said on the mandate or re-election, to define exactly the way of choice without political influence or the fact that because of political influence crime is a flower for years, I repeat, while arresting the most prominent Croatian sons in order to court or some foreign institutions, and crime has flourished at that time. We will not repeat what happened to INA Mol, teleoperators, telecommunications, shipbuilding, everything has been destroyed because state institutions haven't done their job, and mainly because of a handful of policies that influence the elections of key people and DORH and other institutions. For this reason, Minister, it is time to consider a new law, a way of choosing people who will lead such important institutions as the state's attorney's office and other institutions and return to the people's trust. Politicians must not decide whether the majority in the Parliament or not, MPs, the government, in such a way that they have so many paws on these people. But the fact is that so far it has been so and that's why so bad results in the judiciary. From you personally, and on behalf of the club, I expect us all to pass a better law together, a better way of choosing people, people who will be independent in their mandate and who will work in the interests of the people, and not in the interest of any elite, whether political, any interest, any economic, but to be just for everyone because the public is well above all else. No one else, no one else's interests. And once again, I repeat that we are going to make a law on such important institutions where we give such an important role to an individual like a state lawyer, to find a better way of choosing. And that's possible. If in other countries, then it is possible because in the Republic of Croatia it is possible that in the State Judiciary Council, to be a parliamentary representative, to be in the body where he chooses judges and also to sue a parliamentary representative, this was the case of Lackovic-Grmoja. So it's simple all the way from choosing one person, and so it's probably in the state's attorney's council. Let's find a way, even if we choose in a completely different way. If we are chosen by the people, there is no reason not to choose both the state's attorney and to have the legitimacy of the people, not the legitimacy of the political elites that destroyed this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80304	We are going to the final debate, on behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry there aren't many MPs now because many of them deserve answers, but for the record, I still want to say a few basic notes. What was going through this debate very often is that many of the clubs said they wouldn't support this choice by the attorney general because they don't understand why the shift is now and that we haven't explained why we're replacing. I want to be clear here one more time, even though I've said it many times, there's no change here in formal or real terms. So, General State Attorney Dinko Cvitan's mandate comes out 24.4. And we, as Government, are simply proposing another candidate for chief state attorney, we believe that he is relevant, that he is professional. Here, the whole professional public, I've never heard a single bad comment about this man and I think that his references, that they give us faith and hope that we're good, that we'll make a good choice and that he'll actually bring some new processes, some new wind, and that things will actually be more successful. I'm not staying here on that rhetoric that I wish him good luck and every good thing because it's not up to me. It is up to me to provide with my team better conditions for him to come to this better and stronger and we have already announced that we will change, that we will go to the adoption of a new law on criminal proceedings that will allow much better processes, which will allow faster processing than it is now. We also announce amendments to the USKOK Act where we will actually benefit as a specialized part of the DORH only from the most difficult, truly the most serious crimes of corruption and organised crime. There were a lot of words here about the way we were named, that we were too late, that we were in ziet-not and stuff. I can say that it would really be better if we could've come sooner, but formal failures here are not and what's the fact, this process of proposing a appointment he's undernourished. He's in the State's Attorney's Law undernourished, and there's a part of my guilt because I was a minister in '10. And '11, maybe we could have arranged it then, but part of the guilt is those who were before me and those who were after me. But all of you who are in the House know that we have passed the first reading of the new State Attorney's Law where we are going to a more transparent system of appointments where there will be a public call, so the next time we go to the appointment of a chief state attorney, it will be more transparent and better than the appointment of a Supreme Court president. There were some words here, even falsely, that it was put on the Justice Committee to question the candidate for chief state attorney regarding political pressures, whether he had ever had them in his career, what he would have done if it were, and it was said that he did not answer that question. I was on that board, of course. The candidate for chief state attorney said there was never political pressure on him in his career, and if there were, of course, he rejects it because it's clear that it's unacceptable behavior. So this is my way of thanking everyone for the debate. There were words here in the statement that the choice of this candidate meant continuity. I'd say no. We want to actually, we want to make stronger progress. If we wanted continuity, we might stay with what we have now, but this very change, by changing the law on criminal proceedings, by all these material, human strengths that we are planning, we want stronger steps forward and continuity in this sense, where we have great and good statistics, and in fact here in this debate, you've all opened up that we're not satisfied with the processes related to corruption and the processes related to the processing and sanctioning of war crimes, and with all the other processes we're not satisfied with, those big ones don't have a judicial epilogue, and we just don't want that kind of continuity, but we want faster processes, and in this way we want to naturally and restore trust. Thank you all very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-19-0.u80306	I thank the Minister. This brings us to the end of the debate, I'm finishing it. We'll vote when the conditions are met, that's tomorrow. We will continue working on Friday, tomorrow with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading of P.Z. number 317. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 1800 hours. The proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the previous opinion of the Committee on Justice, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Drazen Jelenic to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 81 for, 42 abstentions and 7 votes against the decision to appoint Drazen Jelenic as the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations to the new attorney general. We'll wish him a lot of success in his work and today he'll swear.
