ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66213	I'm looking for a 10-minute break, and I'd like to discuss this Committee for the Facing of the Past.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66214	Thank you. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66215	Thank you very much. I am looking for a five-minute break on the topic of environmental impact on the waste management plan in Zagreb, i.e. on the actions of the city government and the ruling majority in the city assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66216	You got it. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66217	Thank you very much. I'd like a 10-minute break on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66218	A colleague, Son.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66219	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club to talk about the LNG terminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66220	A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66221	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS club regarding the water supply problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66222	You got it. Is anyone else picking up? If no one answers, we'll continue at 9.50. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Coliga Glasnović is already in the front row, he has the first word on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66224	Dear colleagues, these last months have been talked about a legal framework for investments without which no one will come here to talk about taking out the cadastres, like from catastrian land books, that no one cares about, the media at least. I've submitted a request for a lustration framework that needs to start in the judiciary, no one's interested. No one is interested in involving diaspora in the economic and development of the state and what do we have today, today is a debate on the commission to confront the past, and what do we have in diplomatic circles? We have in Denmark an example of a Franna Krnić, a consulate, there works, a man is an old widower and they saw it in the diaspora and of course it is present, it is not the past. Here's what else we got here? This discussed Resolution 1481 facing the past of the EU, 1206 removing symbols, I was talking about commissions, for example. The truth and reconciliation committees from South Africa to Baltic have formed countries to get rid of the burdens of their past. In some countries you have an institute for national memory, they deny their memory and they haven't suppressed it, swept it under the carpet like we did here in Croatia, with this I waved two weeks ago, foreign affairs, it says, what it says, not the dead past, how countries are facing their past. It was all done except for Croatia, China, Russia and we wonder why we are where we are. Bulgaria has declared a communist crime party, and we who run the commission, the people and the criminal organisation and others. ... Here, the main cause of evil and division in Croatia is the never publicly revealed character of the South-Communist regime and genocide that was committed over the Croatian people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Genocide, class aristocid, and worst memory. This is just a continuation of that memory, erasing collective memory. Croatia is like a man who wakes up every morning with a new amnesia attack. We don't know anything about myself, nor do kids know anything, etc. Here's an example of one. After '45, I'm talking about communist crimes, which is since '41. - Is it 45? Who's supposed to investigate that? Tens of thousands of Croats were killed by Catholics, Muslims, by... Five-pointed parishes of Grahovo, Krnjeuša, Borčevac, in Serbia, we celebrated the slaughter of us to our people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's an example of one. 23.12.1941... Hercegovina, the Partisans killed only one small example of this anti-fascist character. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They killed three Russian monarchs of the Russian Orthodox Church in the monastery, and those old men had to dig their graves, and then they took them down naked and beat them to bits. It's a Russian Orthodox church, they fled the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, and they ended them in Herzegovina. What do our top anti-fascists have to say about that? They don't know shit about it. They hide it like a snake's feet. What have they been doing for the last 30 years, what has the Scientific Council done for the Education and School of the Jazz? Is it just possible that the Hajduks down there know who Frane Tente was killed in Leprechaun, a young man 20 years old, in '48? The year he put the Croatian flag on Marian, no one knows anything about it. ... And that old mantra from the Southzomboid, forget the past, the future, scary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that what it means to end history, political science, anthropology, forensics, total nonsense? When someone tells you this, of these illiterate media, it's a great honor for individuals, and then just turn in the other direction and cross over. Here, what else is going on? Today we're going to talk about another one, it's not a topic right now, about a robbery, we don't have a database on confiscated property, nationalization, how many million acres of agricultural land has been taken, we don't know anything. People are dying and other human rights have been violated there, it is the right to private property, it is the foundation of every democratic state and that law has extended for another 10 years. That's what they're gonna talk about today. But these juzomboids, when you see them, tell me, so they're atheists, let them go over there to that Brothers place where they... in Samobor, some bracho heals the view. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66225	Thank you. Let's move on, the second is the SDP's Club of Representatives and the Honorable Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66226	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we decided to talk from this pay phone about a situation, a drama that is happening in the city of Zagreb, which the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic wants to do quietly, but we will not allow it, the citizens of Zagreb will not allow it. Discussions are under way about environmental impact study, the plan for waste management of the city of Zagreb. So Mr. Bandic, the simplest way to put it, wants to put the health of the citizens of Zagreb at risk to the business of large companies. We must not let him do this and I will symbolically say here what I think about the plan for managing the waste of the city of Zagreb and about the study ordered by the city of Zagreb according to this plan and I will put it immediately and recycling and delay it because the citizens of the city of Zagreb do not deserve it. Business, investors who burn in Zagreb and dumps at least once every year who are likely to benefit from it, must not cross the Bandic and the city of Zagreb from the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Milan Bandic predicted a large waste management centre in Resnik, 200 thousand tonnes. He predicted in Brezovica, one of the most beautiful parts of the city of Zagreb, the untouched nature, the largest compost in the Republic of Croatia, which will work 50 thousand tonnes annually. Can I tell you what that means? In Brezovica where there is no basic infrastructure or road, every 20 minutes a garbage truck will pass. That's not gonna work for Bandic, and we can't let him do that. And the third, almost incredible, in the center of the city, under the Medvednica is intended to create the largest recycling yard of building material here perhaps 5 km of air from this assembly, in Podsid Vrapec, in the old cementery, see whose property the country is around that old cement shop and everything will be clear to you to whom Bandic goes in favor. But the problem that arises here, particles, the dust will go within 10 km. Medvednica will be covered, it will be covered by the entire city of Zagreb and that is what the city administration with Milan Bandic wants to tell us and wants to do. From this place, on behalf of more than 10 thousand at this time of the collection of signatures in the Sub-Neighbor-Vrapce, local neighborhoods in Zagreb, Brezovica and Resnik in Sesvedi, I am telling you, Bandic will not go through what you are doing. We support these people and, if necessary, we will prevent and physically what Bandic is up to. In Brezovica, we must not destroy one of the most beautiful city districts with large infrastructure-increasing projects, where, I say, every 20 minutes we would be driving waste, or a truck would pass there. Please, like all MPs in this assembly, but please also representatives of the HDZ City Assembly who keep most of Milan Bandic from responding and not allowing it. At this moment, several associations in Brezovica, Subsident-Vrapac and Sesvetima have gathered more than 10 thousand signatures and can announce from this pay phone that the SDP will stand firm behind them and that I, as a representative from the city of Zagreb, Gordan Maras, will personally stand behind them and that we will not allow Bandić of us to work in Zagreb for a city that will spin business for a few companies in the trash, and will endanger the health of our citizens and the future and the environment of our city, which is amazingly, is one of the few cities that has virtually everything. And the mountain and the river and the lakes. And now because of several capital projects that Bandic imagined with his private sector partners, he wants to destroy it all. You don't want a Bandic! You don't want a Bandic!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66227	Let's move on. The third is the club of representatives of GLAS and HUS, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66228	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. After such a heated discussion by my colleague Maras about the waste, I will still do a little bit on another subject and I am actually taking this opportunity to pause because this may be the last chance to take a break during this time period, since today the third item of the day's work is the Change and Supplement of the Rules of Procedure. But I'll be back on the subject. So, after a year, the Committee for the Facing of the Past made one decision yesterday. That decision could be called, there's a book, there's a different one, it could be used differently. I'm not going to use this pay phone, but that's about the following: we in law say the car can be driven, and the blood alcohol limit is 0.5. And now in law we say, there are exceptions. Well, let's just say, for the Martins, you can drive with more. Or, for example, there are parts of the country where wine vines are traditionally grown and wine is traditionally produced, and from chance to chance, when someone gets caught with a car, they can have a higher percentage of alcohol in their blood. Or maybe if we had someone to evaluate, you know. Someone with 0.5 doesn't really need to sit behind the wheel, but someone who's well trained at 1.5 can drive. We saw that too. My people, we live in a country where something is unconstitutional except extremely unconstitutional. We really don't see any reason not to say that anything is illegal or legal except exceptional. It's just so not good. It's not good in the sense of the message, it's not good in the sense of any attitude towards it, and at least it's good. So, the commission's been working for a year. For a year, he's given various alibis. To who in the end? After all, Prime Minister. After a year, there's a white smoke coming out and then it says, and then it says, "Well, here's a little bit of this, a little bit of that." There are values that were unquestionable in this country. If we start to question all the values, how far are we gonna go? So, the Committee said, in relation to us, that something can change or cannot change in law. This country has values, these values should not be questionable. We need to take a step forward, not all the time step or two back and I really don't see why we shouldn't change some other laws and say exceptional. Let's make one commission and it will decide whether or not it is. Absolutely the wrong message we're sending, absolutely the wrong decision and absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66229	The fourth is Ivan Vilibor Sinčić and the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66230	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I took this break to talk about the LNG terminal in Krk, much to be said, i.e., it's a very important topic, so I'm going to try to open up these five minutes, or set up some basic lines. LNG terminal, floating LNG terminal is an economic technological technical and ecological disaster. The Croatian people must stand up against such a project, it is harmful to us, it offers us at the beginning and more expensive gas 30-50% and also offers us environmental pollution. To compare with what is being done on Krk, I will take an example from Lithuania, namely Lithuania, at the port of Klaipeda, in 2015 there was a construction of a floating LNG terminal, or, in 2015, its rental. The idea was to make it for 4 billion metres of cubic gas, he's working only 1 billion metres of cubic gas today, he doesn't have to say that he's working with a huge loss, and that the capital of Lithuania on energy independence has turned into a nightmare, namely the idea of selling gas to Latvia, Finland, Estonia and other neighbours, but that gas is simply too expensive and nobody wants it. This will happen to Croatia, if we have consumption at this time somewhere around 3 million metres of cubic gas, which will give us more on those 3 new 7, 8 million meters of cubic gas. If we have it where to store it, we don't have it, the Okolo warehouse has about 500 million meters of cubic space everywhere. Do we have somewhere to spend it? We don't, do we have anyone to take him out? We don't, because the price of gas is too high. Well, if it's an obvious loss, then why go into that project, someone's obviously profiting. Who's profiting? Profits America, which will export its gas, the expensive gas obtained by hydraulic invoices from oil shale, from oil sands, will also earn those with their partners, probably in Norway, who will sell us a ship to transport gas. The Hungarian MOL will also earn that I will explain later, and of course, Mr Plenkovic will profit, because he will be able to praise that Europe has given a million euros to create this project, we have withdrawn money from Europe, all of which is clear to you, that is, when it should be taken who is actually running this project, led by Mr. Goran Frančić, otherwise godfather-bound, for Mr. Djuru Popić, the current head of petrochemicals in Kutina, before he was in Plinarro and Minister of Economy, it is known. Given that recently, in the 6th month of 2017, Mrs Martina Dalic, known for her unbelief and corruption in the company of Mr Hernadi in Budapest, signed an agreement on... The gas flow, when taking the other thing, that technical characteristics are allowed, that gas, not only comes now from the east, was generally Russian gas, but was exported to Hungary and given the fact that gas transport tariffs are reduced from 7 euros per megawatt hour to just 1 euro per megawatt hour, it is clear where the gas flows. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gas will flow to Hungary, but not this expensive, LNG gas, not that gas, but this domestic gas from domestic sources from which we now cover some 40-50% of domestic needs. This cheap gas will be exported to Hungary and we will get this expensive LNG gas, it is a hell of a plan of Minister Dalic and the diameter of Plenkovic and what Ivo Sanader did with INA and oil, Mr Plenkovic obviously intends to finish, there will earn above all MOL where he will have cheaper gas, and we, we, we will suffer because we will have the first expensive gas, the second we will have more expensive electricity and will bear the natural environmental consequences of the whole project. I intend to talk about LNG again, thanks to the change of rules of procedure, it will probably censor us for everything possible, but it doesn't matter, I call on Croatian citizens to resist this copper plan and to stand up against this LNG terminal and against these energy solutions that are just a continuation of INA's robbery and devastation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66231	5 debates by respected colleague Davor Vlaović, club of representatives of HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66232	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to discuss water supply problems. In fact, we are aware that water is life, that without water there is no remnant of people in a particular area, that without available water there is no development of the economy. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has been a great opportunity to achieve those goals that 75% of the population of the Republic of Croatia have the possibility of water connection reaching the 75-80% of the potential for connection and that we have a large number of connections, or that we have water for the economy. You have titles in newspapers, Croatia has missed billions of kuna to solve the water supply problem and has delayed much of the projects for 2024. But what was planned and launched by 2020 is not finished. About 5 and a half billion were agreed, of which 4 billion grants, but the basic question is, is it agreed and is it invested in all areas? Do we all have an equal chance? We don't. The Međimurje County has 100% availability for drinking water and over 79% of connections, while some other regions do not even have 70% availability of drinking water. And the biggest problem is you know where? Slavonia, the eastern and regional waters of Sikirevci, a water supply system, which should provide water for the Posavina County of Brod, Vukovar Srijemska and part of Osijek Baranja are not yet completed. So far, 676 million kuna has been invested. The Vinkovci water line was faster, more efficient, perhaps HDZ and county was stronger, so Vinkovci, Županju and that part connected to the water line of Sikireveci, but still did not solve the problem of Privlaka settlement and that part of the island, Komletnci, where there was a large percentage of arsenic in the water, and they had a chance. Still the town of Slavonski Brod is not connected to the waterway of Sikireveci, there are 160 meters of pipes missing and one trafo station. Is it the mayor's fault because it's not from that political option, whether it's the boat's water line and whether it's wrong for 72500 citizens as far as I got in response to further investment, that this project should get water. It's not their fault and they need that drinking water. Why is the Water Act not implemented to transfer the built water buildings to the ownership of units of local self-government or water supplier from that area. Croatia's water is still running, and water is delivered to the part of the town of Brod-Posavina County by Vodavod Vinkovci and invoices by kuna and 15 and the production price is 60,70 lipa. How is it possible today that someone from another county delivers from our Sikirevec station belonging to Brod-Posavina County, to the citizens of our county at a more expensive price, earns from it, and whether it pays any compensation for the quantities of water affected at all. Not as much as I have information. It's the same as if citizens of Slavonski Brod city were asking to receive a fee on a mining oil rental from Djeletovac that is being drained there. They have no legal right. So there is no legal law in the waters of Vinkovci, Croatian waters and others not to enforce the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I ask Prime Minister Plenkovic to cut off this track that has been going on for 10 years because they cannot agree on the leaders of Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County who is stronger, who will manage this system and who suffer citizens. 72500 citizens per project still need to be able to connect to this water. And what's built up is the slightest integration in these areas for economic reasons, so I ask that this project be of strategic importance, to enter the Slavonia project. Because if we've already downloaded the list of strategic firms at Vukovar port, Đuro Djakovica, so at least give people water to make it a strategic project to do it. Because now we're dealing with historical issues again, greetings instead of water dealing and citizens getting water. You won't have anyone to say hello to if we keep this up, everyone will move out of Slavonia, because there's no life there without water. Without quality water and sufficient throughout the year, and threatens that this summer the town of Slavonski Brod will not have enough water, because they have great losses in the network because they are not connected to Sikirevce because they have not invested in maintaining existing facilities. We're all guilty of this, but most of all, those who now have the opportunity to resolve, to legally manage these systems and not to put up with the citizens. Because if we continue to say this, either the citizens will move out or, as announced by the referendum, they will seek a solution to this problem, and perhaps a referendum and seek the resignation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66233	Here we come to the end of the debate after the break, so let's move on to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66258	Here's a colleague of Sladolev, you've raised your hand to something?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, I would like to request a break from the situation in Croatian education. I can do it after the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66260	Do you agree that after the replica, we can make a deal like that? Comrade Pernar, here you go. [[Sladolev's intrusion: Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66261	I'd like to request a recess for the arrest, i.e. Holding in the prison of a young Palestinian woman named Ahed Tamimi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66262	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66263	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break until the secretary returns because no one listens, in front, to our debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66264	Thank you. There's a representative of the ministry here, so it's not true but good. Is anyone else looking for a break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66265	Well, then I'd like to ask for a break in this case, if that's possible, which we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66266	No, no, no, that's not possible, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66267	Okay, but here, we'll be here by midnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66268	You can do other things for now. Are we going to, uh, any other club looking for a break, first of all, record which clubs are looking for a break? Do you agree as well as your colleague, Sladolev, to finish our replicas and then because we have them, a series of replicas. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replications and then breaks, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, let's just let's just calm these down and get back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.55 HOURS]] On behalf of the club MOST, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we saw today in this polar cold how difficult it is to negotiate a collective contract and let us remember how light and pleasant it is and how comfortable it is in a warm cabinet to make a decision to buy expensive mobiles and luxury cars. This way, I ask the question why no reform of education has brought about a reform on the form of increasing the material rights of teachers and teachers. Why do all reforms break over their backs? When it comes to demographics and education, there is always a question of where the money is, how to get the necessary funds. Interestingly, such questions are never asked when money leaks everywhere for someone's interests. Teachers and teachers seek not only their material rights but also the dignity and deserved place in our society. They should be one of the pillars of our society and are forever thrown out by double standards and by increasing various inspections and bureaucrats. As their former colleague, I express my full support for today's protest and tell them not to give up their demands because they are just and realistic. Is eight minutes enough to negotiate such important matters? On the other hand, when presenting her laws, the minister was always present in this House, which I personally always commended, but this move showed that she did not care about the negotiations. Dear Minister, it's time for people to become important to you and you to care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66271	Thank you. The next club is the living wall in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66272	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk today about the 17-year-old Ahed Tamima, a young Palestinian woman who is currently in Israeli prison and is being tried. The reason for this is a lot and the main reason is that she can't speak publicly in prison, so her mouth is blocked and so is the public, as well as journalists and diplomats removed from her trial. And this was done in order to hide the truth about what is happening in occupied Palestine, which is the abuse of people, it's kidnapping, robbery, actually Palestinian countries, mass occupancy, the destruction of houses, and ultimately the torture of people and the killing of Palestinians by Israeli occupation authorities. I would especially like to point out that 10 members of her family's rope was arrested the other day, or extended families, and they are now also in prison. So what Israel is doing is actually revenge, revenge because her case has become a public matter and because now the whole world is talking about it. The real offender of rights and the real reason why Ahed Tamimi is in prison is not her behavior because an Israeli soldier disrupted the peace of her home, broke into her home, and that she slapped him, slapped him for a reason because he could be ashamed of what he was doing. And I would like to say that the key reason in fact is why the whole incident occurred in that Israel does not respect international law, does not respect the UN General Assembly resolution 194 which says that more than 700 thousand Palestinians must be allowed back to their homes, Israel does not respect that resolution, neither does Resolution 2.4.2. of the UN Security Council that says that it must withdraw from the areas occupied in 1967 or the west coast and that Israel has withdrawn in accordance with that resolution from the western coast today we would not have a conflict with Ahed Tamimi, Israeli soldiers in its own home. Also, Israel violates other UN Security Council resolutions, including 2334, which says it must stop the construction of illegal settlements in the occupied and kidnapped Palestinian country, and Israel also means 2334 does not respect, even though it is from the Security Council, it does not respect the 497 UN Security Council resolution that says the occupation of the Golan High Court without legal personality is invalid and that Israel must withdraw from it. And it's actually that Israel violates every international law and Benjamin Netanyahu is actually an Israeli prime minister and is actually a place in prison for him and not Ahed Tamimi. Ahed Tamimi must go out of the prison of Israel and Benjamin Netanyahu must go to prison. It is the only fair solution, and I am ashamed of it because Croatia, my country, admits this, so to speak, an illegal entity, and I am ashamed that our government plans to buy from Israel used F16 planes that previously dropped bombs on the heads of Palestinian children. The contract is controversial, Croatia has no use for it, only Israel will earn money on our corrupt government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66304	My colleague, Nicole Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66305	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club on the situation of social housing in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66306	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66307	I'm looking for a break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66308	Thank you. Is there anyone else? I'm setting a break until 9:15 p.m. It's 9:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.15 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Stanku requested a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66310	Thank you, Vice President. I have received a series of messages from people in Dubrovnik to react on this subject, and since we will have a debate on changes to the Rules of Procedure, tomorrow and a vote that will deprive us practically of this right to pause and that we are talking about certain problems, especially those of the local ones, and I have always used these afternoons to talk about these problems, I will now talk about this. So it concerns the tenant of a social building in Dubrovnik. Twenty-one families received eight days for eviction from the mayor of Dubrovnik. It's a social building in Mokosica. The eviction order was issued by the mayor of Mate Frankovic, where one censorship of 1704.00 kuna of monthly incomes was introduced. This was determined by a member of the household, above which the tenants of this building receive, so they can no longer be users. We all know what the price is to rent, which is real estate in the city of Dubrovnik and we can only think about what kind of problem these people now have to move out into within 8 days. One of our most read portals wrote about the case of a HDZ man who was also a beneficiary of the apartment, who is also a city councilman in Dubrovnik, who at the same time rents... What? [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who rents a luxury villa at Dubrovnik. There are, of course, cases where these rights should be revised as in this case, but surely there are people who have no other space for housing and who, thanks to this decision, the mayor will be left without a roof over his head. I, because of these appeals that I received from Dubrovnik, invite the mayor to reconsider this decision, to see really who people are in a situation that they do not have enough means to secure themselves through their heads and not to go as one Dubrovnik portal wrote with its sole to the citizens of Dubrovnik. I don't think that's a good decision, to think about it. It is similar to this topic that we have discussed today, which has triggered this many discussions and replicas and here, I hope that the Mayor of Dubrovnik, given the state of the city budget of the city of Dubrovnik, will think about it and go out to meet these people, and we will nevertheless, despite the intentions of the ruling to silence us to talk about these problems further. Maybe not at this break that we've been right about all this time, but we'll definitely find ways either through press conferences or through something else to talk about these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66311	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji, for the reason of the break. Following the break, a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, reported on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues of Grumo, colleagues of Shucker, I would kindly ask you not to disturb my colleague Pernar as he explains the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66312	Dear ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the issue of protected tenants, there is one, let's call it, wave of dejections that not only includes Dubrovnik but also Zagreb. His executioners are mayors of cities, so Bandic and the gentleman currently in Dubrovnik. And what's going on? It happens that Katja Saric and her son were decommissioned from her social apartment the other day, and she has nowhere else to go. They just took her to the homeless shelter, as far as I could tell. And on the other hand, the HDZ councilman used the city apartment, and he had a villa. So now, what's going on? Now that the media has called about it, he says: well, well, I was wrong, I'm getting out of the apartment. However, they are not in the same situation he and Katja Saric, nor are the tenants of the social building in Mokosica who are also threatened by collective action. Actually, it reminds me of HDZ policy on Robespierre. Robespierre and his crew, two more were. They believed that all social problems would be solved by guillotine. He simply says why are you poor? Because we haven't guillotined people enough. And that was, he was daily calling for a guillotine. Once in two months, 4,000 people were guillotined and held to their convictions, i.e. The crowd believed it was a better trip tomorrow. So do you from HDZ and gentlemen from HNS and Bandic Milan, and you also believe that the solution for not knowing what social problems are like. The one with the apartment ownership, the evictions, the evictions. When Robespierre gave him the guillotine of his remaining. There were three of them, one of them was killed by one woman, the other was given to guillotine, and you're careful under what excuse. He said he wasn't revolutionary enough. And when Robespierre's associate was taken to the guillotine, he only said I regret that this rat would leave after me. And then at the end of Robespierre, when he was guillotined amongst others, and when the king came to order and the queen, when he had guillotined them, he said to the crowd, saying, "But among you are those traitors who should be guillotined." And they were then, everyone thought, listen, maybe he thought of me and then one of them took the gun and shot Robespierra and then they guillotined him. And the irony is that they kept him before the guillotine in the same room that Maria Antoinette was in, and then his head flew off. But what I'm saying is, these actions that you're proposing to those poor people right now could happen in case you lose power, the drink turns on you, and tomorrow you'll be the ones who are disembarked. I'm going to tell everyone who's in danger of dissection, that's the problem, that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen or you or them, there's no third. So all of you go to the polls and vote for the Living Wall. And that's it. And otherwise, just to tell you, there was a debate Dr. Guillotine who invented the guillotine, that's what I was reading about yesterday, there was a debate to make it look like a guillotine and did you...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66313	My colleague Pernar, Robespierre has nothing to do with Dalmatia or Dubrovnik, and as far as I know, he's not living right now in this time. Please stick to the topic and take the current topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66314	Yeah, but what I'm saying is that this social revolution that the HDZ launched in the 1990s could eventually turn against them. Here's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66315	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66317	Thank you very much Chairman, I request a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66318	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66319	I'm looking for a break on the same issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66320	Thank you, colleague Maras. Dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66321	I'm looking for a break because of the manipulation of HRT. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66322	I thank my colleague Pernar. I'm setting up a break of 23.25, and we're moving on with our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66323	Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, we continue with the breaks, and first, on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66324	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the freedom of speech reached in the Republic of Croatia in these hours will be tried in a way, in a non-democratic way, of course by amending the Rules of Procedure, to take the right of words, to speak. Freedom of speech is the basis of democracy, freedom of speech is why voters chose us to express our views. But the fact that by amending the Rules of Procedure,... The Rules of Procedure prohibiting a speech that reduces the rights of parliamentarians so far reminds them of totalitarian times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not just a case of parliamentary representatives, the case of journalists on Croatian TV Tihomir Dujmović, Maja Sever, Mr. Šikanjić for criticising Vrdoljak, despite being also a critic of one of the biggest MOSTs, forbade them to act through their missions that are world-widely different views, but that have opened certain social topics. My colleagues from HDZ this is embarrassing if we open the Rules of Procedure at this time about half of the night, the debate on the Rules of Procedure would normally be the time if you plan to change it in time in the morning, so Friday at 9.30 a.m. as every day begins and let the Croatian public see the relationship with those they chose. Do I agree with you fellow Maras, Sincic or you with me that's less important, but you can't ban us from speaking and you won't. Maybe you think you're gonna ban us from talking now. A lot of blood has been shed for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, for the laws, but in this way in half the night, in the nights you introduce a patch of Rules of Procedure, the ban on talking to MPs is not discriminatory but reminds you of totalitarian regimes such as the radio and Mao Ce-tung would not be ashamed, he would be ashamed. I call you once again in front of the MOST Club for democracy, because of the right to freedom of speech not only in Parliament but also the journalist on HTV, such as fellow journalist Dujmovic, Maja Sever, Mr. Šikanjic, you forbade them to speak because of the criticism of Vrdoljak and you sitting here. And now you want to ban us too. I'm sending you a message, gentlemen, you won't. But because of democratic principles in the middle of the night, to discuss the Rules of Procedure, are you ashamed? I invite you in the morning in front of the public, in front of all the cameras, to publicly express your view of the ban on the rights achieved as regards the freedom of speech of the representatives, that is what you do to the press, and that is a message to the citizens. But we won't let you, nor will you pass this Rules of Procedure as you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66325	And the next club representative of that SDP on behalf of which will be spoken by a respected representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66326	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. This is something that we have been listening to for months and criticisms from individual MPs, especially this comes from the ruling majority who say that the Parliament is being brought to some level that is not appropriate, and now we are being shown by HDZ that it is essentially a form for them. So why are we here at midnight waiting to discuss the Rules of Procedure? Because HDZ, a HDZ club, a HDZ representative, has to do the form, only to hold a debate. They don't care what happens in that debate. They'd be the happiest if we all went home, and then they'd go home. Here's to withdraw all the debates there would be a fellow Reiner for a pay phone, said two sentences, and everyone would go home because the debate over the Rules of Procedure was just a matter of form, just a matter of form to make what they were up to, it's no wish for any particular increase in the quality of the debate, the desire for MPs to be more productive, to do faster, it's nonsense. The desire is to make parliamentary debates the way they think they will and think that the Rules of Procedure will help them. I can warn you in advance before this debate, and I hope that reason prevails no matter what is late, no matter what we are here long today, I hope that reason prevails, colleague Bacic. And that you'll come to yourself for the next 10 minutes and become aware that this doesn't make any sense and that now we'll finish the debate that's been going on all day around the ten-hour ten-hour ten-year-olds, or the ten-year-olds, and we'll conclude this and we'll hold a quality debate tomorrow that may be under the agreement between the clubs that it doesn't last 10 hours, but that all arguments are made on behalf of the clubs and a few debates, I think everyone will agree to that. For this debate to take place in the morning, from 10 to 1, 3 hours is quite enough or half 1 to then hold a vote, etc. He would impose that understanding on you, and it would be very interesting to see if the voice of reason can lead you to it. Or you'll do what you've announced, which is to do something pure for the sake of form, and you think that's how the debate will be directed in the future, because it won't. I can tell you right now, in my own name. On my behalf here, I'm saying, I don't want to put my colleagues from the SDP Club in that position right now, in my name I'm telling you that whatever the Rules of Procedure is, you won't shut me up and I don't think you're going to have a lot of other MPs. So I'm calling you on behalf of my colleague Bačić's mind, you haven't answered, you're usually the one who's closing up on behalf of the clubs' debate, but maybe that's not bad, because maybe now we'd have to say something that would be the opposite of what your mind might make you think for 10 minutes. So here, you will now have a colleague of Pernar and a fellow secretary of state from the CNS final round the law we had and let's use those 10 minutes to make sense prevail. Let's conclude today and meet tomorrow and have a quality discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66327	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the living wall in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66328	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I remember my trial with Alexander Stankovic at the Municipal Court in Zagreb and he then assured me that he was a good and objective journalist. However, more and more people who doubt his objectivity. And mostly one argument he made as a reason why he's a good journalist. And he said the HRT administrations were changing, coming and going, the authorities were changing, and I was staying. It's proof that I was a good and good and objective journalist. I told him to look at it, there were other people who were picturesquely good for each government and who had left every authority to work on HRT and who, of course, had changed as authorities had changed, so they moved in a picturesque manner. And of course he rejected my argument, but the question arises, if Alexander Stankovic really is a good and quality journalist, if he really is objective, if he really does his job as he should, how is it possible that he hasn't been removed yet? Because we all know that on HRT every journalist who does a good job, that his head is flying, that he's moving. And the answer is that he selectively calls guests on the show, that's one strategy. For example. Lawyers representing the perpetrators or those who are victims of the aggressive acts of their controllers who are harassing people, are trying to enter without a court order, sending criminal orders even though they have not found a violation, means that the person owns a receiver of the TV signal, their lawyer did not call, he called on his show Sunday at 2am only the Croatian lawyer, Mason Marijan Hanžekovic. So what's this about? Afterwards, people discussed what he was like for Hanžekovic, whether he was correct or not. My opinion is even that he was correct. But the point is not that he was towards Hanžekovic, the point was that he did not invite the other side's lawyer to the show. That journalist who's objective, he'll call both sides. He didn't do it or did it on the next show with another guest. Another tactic that is to invite someone who isn't on the regime line or thinks differently from the government on his show, and here, you see how we are on HRT giving everyone a chance. But then when that other person comes, then as they respond to interruptions, he determines the topics to be talked about, which may be of little interest to the public at all, but he forces them, etc. And it's actually his modus operandi. So sensitive people, or people who represent the other side, like in the case of a TV subscription, who represent victims of their legal services and law firms, lawyers don't call the victim, and on the other hand, and if he calls, let's say me when he calls on the show, then he doesn't let them talk, imposes topics, etc. And with such an approach, he gave HRT something that I would call an illusion that there is objective journalism on HRT. But what he's doing is not objective journalism and you protecting him, you're actually protecting, in my opinion, an unobstructed journalism, not professional journalism. And what he, he said, said I got the award that I'm the best journalist. I'm saying I don't care that he won that prize but I wonder if he's the best like the rest of them, what are the other reporters like if he's the best? And this tells you all about the state of journalism in Croatia and in general the journalistic profession and the state of the HRT. I think it is high time to review the way HRT is conducted, to be professionalised, to put people who are objective and not biased and to no longer be the host of the HRT show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u66329	Thank you very much. We're done with the breaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71958	Here we come to the end of the debate after the break, so let's move on to the agenda now. First item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, First Reading, P.Z. No. 286. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Here with us is Honorable Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71959	Ladies and gentlemen, President of the Parliament. The Social Encouragement Act was first passed in 2001 and it is one of those laws that should be harmonised from time to time with the state of the economy and the real estate market in our country. It's been changed several times so far. Newspapers have been introduced since then, which allowed only the sale of apartments to our citizens under particularly favourable conditions, a single credit line and the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of such apartments. It was later modified in a way that the POS plus programme was also introduced, with which apartments could be purchased and built already on the market through social incentive housing modes. And the last change that was in 2013 when it changed and introduced into a socially stimulating housing modality. These amendments, now proposed by several elements, are in line with other laws, including the Construction Act, where the concept of construction and construction, or the concept of ethlon and the ethlon construction price from which those elements do not belong, are excluded. Furthermore, as regards compliance with the economy and movement on the real estate market, in 2015 the Law on Value Added Tax began to apply to the transport of land. In this way, given that the fixed price, the maximum price in POS apartments and one of the influential variables is also land, should therefore be corrected. And this bill allows for an increase in the maximum share of land price from 20% to 25% in the apartment price structure, and due to the movement on the labour and material markets, an additional increase in the maximum price is allowed by 5%, which means that from the value shown by the construction plant of 6000 kuna, the price would rise from 140% to 150% of the ethlon price. So that includes all the additional additional additional and additional works in the building. In addition, the maximum price would be 9,000 kuna per metre square, maximum allowed. This does not mean that it will be used and used as much as it depends on the input costs. There is also a clearer definition of the source of public funds and the debtor of their insurance, among other things, that the Law on Social Encouraging Stanobuilding in one of its amendments allows local agencies for social promotional housing to exist. So we have them in Varazdin, Koprivnica, Dubrovnik and Rijeka and relations between the state of the agency and locals were not specified in the previous versions of the law, but it is now further explained and edited. In these relations between the local agencies and the state agency APN, it was necessary to regulate the so-called State Agency among other things. the reserve fund, which means that if local agencies are planning some projects, they must also count on some of the risks that can arise in the realisation of these projects and have their reserve fund established in order for these projects to be successfully completed and that the project design and planning is taken more seriously from that point of view. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed law will ensure compliance with the legislative framework and a clearer definition of the concepts used, the harmonisation of the highest prices with the real situation in construction, the clearer definition of the rights and obligations of non-profit legal persons who are the founders of the local self-government unit, the provision of a faster launch of a new housing programme that would ultimately allow multiple benefits for the Republic of Croatia, which means that, apart from the provision of housing funds for the needs of the MUP and the MORH, the possibility and the provision of funding from the state budget for the construction of dwellings through socially stimulating housing and public officials is opened. And the public servants include complete health, education, science and culture. The idea is to create a programme that would allow for these deficits in public services under favourable, extremely favourable conditions in less developed housing environments for the needs of deficit staff. The implementation of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Social Encouragement Act does not require the provision of additional funds, given that the planned appropriations in the budget intend to be implemented by those programmes. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71960	Thank you. We have four replicas and a colleague of the Grmoya Five, so the first one is Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71961	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this problem, we need to look at the whole situation because it is not changing the law and increasing the price for a certain amount of solution for all cities. I am absolutely sure that this price will not be enough and that we will not have such apartments in some communities in the Republic of Croatia, especially in Dalmatia and Primorje while there will be something in Zagreb, but on the edges of the city what if the infrastructure is settled and it does not have to be bad. So we have to have a structure and an analysis which is why and what cities we've intended for this increase to see if it's going to have an effect. To raise the price just to raise the price, I don't think it makes any sense and it won't have much impact on building or building new apartments will have any major impact on this change of law. But what worries me more is the incredible ease of ignoring now 300 families here in front of the Croatian Parliament that no one has spoken to them in front of the ministry, here is Mr. Uhlir about protected tenants. Go out in front of those people and tell them two, three words, Mr. Uhlir, don't ignore them no matter what you're on the other side, what you're the one who's pushing the law to get these people on the road in five years. Go out and explain to them what you have to say: 300 people here are frozen, and you have not been able to say two words to people for two minutes, and explain to them what you are doing. That's what I'd like to ask you right now. I'm sorry. I had to react like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71962	Thank you. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71963	They can respond to this constructive part of the topic and the law that is now on the agenda, and it is that analyses have been made by monitoring the real estate and labour markets. Of course, the part specifically related to land VAT is completely accurate. If VAT is 25% on land, and the impact of land on the price is 20, then 5% of the increase is clearly calculated. As regards adequate prices across all cities, of course it is not possible in the most expensive of our city of Dubrovnik to realize the social promotional housing because it would then come out of the general idea of socially stimulating housing, but local administration can contribute to its part by giving up the compensation for land for municipal jobs that their municipal societies can build and thus the price can be kept within the frameworks of those that are maximumly prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71964	Before the second replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know that I strictly adhere to the rules and would not react if you had responded, Mr. Uhlir was injured in Article 238. Mr. Uhlir has qualified my discussion constructively, or the other part probably inconclusive and destructive to him, but it shows only his attitude towards the citizens. I mentioned that 300 people Mr. Uhlir is now freezing in front of the assembly, you find it difficult for these people to come out and tell them a few sentences, because you're personally interested in this law to pass, given that it's a large, very likely material interest that is available to everyone in public, but if they read certain media. Don't tell me I'm constructive or not constructive, it's not right, it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure, go out to people and look into his eyes if you have the strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71966	I'm not going to give you a heads-up, but I don't think it was very nice of you to do what you did. Let's go to another replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71967	Thank you very much, President. This is too serious a subject and I am sorry that the minister is not at all, I express my regret and I object that the Minister does not come to such an important topic because this law is also anti-demographic because the current price is total, according to this law, valid 1125 euros and these changes are 1026 which means that it is increasing by 80.34 euros. The increase in the prices of POS apartments will lead to a more difficult approach to housing precisely those of the most vulnerable groups. And in particular, this law does not address key issues such as: Here we must mention Slavonia and we can mention the Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar, absolutely where demographic measures are the most important and necessary. So the examples here in Dalmatian Zagora, 143 thousand MPs were listed in 2011 and today we have 26 thousand fewer inhabitants, which means somewhere it's not a small number, it's a huge number on this population. This law must target the area because it is the fact that two-thirds of Croatia because of this anti-demographic policy essentially emigrated two-thirds of Croatia. That's a huge number, 23 thousand people less in Dalmatia than in 2011 at the moment. And with this law and these changes, you're actually going to move out even more in the coming years than what you've done so far. Please invite Minister Štromar to explain what will happen with undeveloped areas and therefore this anti-demographic measure at these times when Croatia is evicted and extinct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71968	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71969	Thank you very much. Socially stimulating housing and the law that has been written since its beginning is not social law. So he has one completely different connotation, the implementation of it is in the spirit of his text and this second part of which we are discussing today, which is the opening of opportunities precisely for deficiting occupations in less developed areas, and it solves this question that you have touched, not for all but for deficiting professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71970	Let's move on, third replica of the esteemed colleague of Liposchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71971	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Uhlir, I will personally welcome this law and, with the conclusion that, with only a job, or self-employment, I believe that the solution to the housing issue is one of the most important, we can say demographic measures. Of course, this law will not solve all the problems, but if we take at least one step towards solving these problems again, we have done a lot. What one city, one municipality makes a city or municipality in the fullest sense are its institutions and its institutions. This legislative proposal has made it possible to provide housing and public servants, i.e. for renting these apartments. In particular, I would like to highlight people who are employed in school, or in education and health care. However, what I am interested in is whether this legislative proposal will cover only those persons who enter into the system, meaning after the entry into force of this law, or whether the provisions of this law, or newly extended other than the MUP and the MORH, mean public services, healthcare professionals and education, will also be able to use those employees already in the system for several years, or who are present in the system and before the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71972	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71973	I thank you for every question. This law therefore only opens up the possibility, it does not prescribe details, follows a programme that will be adopted under this law when the proposal is adopted, but certainly considers the category of deficiting professions that it seeks to attract to some environment and those it seeks to keep in some environment. So the existing ones who are trying to keep and the new ones who are trying to attract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71974	The fourth replica, honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71975	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I have one question specifically related to the provision of Article 30b of this proposal of the law which says that it will be a regulation that will define the rental of apartments when it comes to providing for the needs of military personnel, police officers and other state and public officials. It is not clear until the end whether it is a new Regulation or an already existing rule that speaks of renting apartments will be added to certain provisions. I don't think there may be a need for a new rule, but I'm asking nicely for an indication of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71976	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71977	Thank you very much. So the new rulebook, the new rulebook is a completely different principle will be allocations, equipment and rents for those apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71978	And the last replica, dear colleague of the bush, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71979	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I, too, would like to express my dissatisfaction with my colleague Bula that Minister Shtromar ignores this High House in all the essential laws, and I do not know what this man is afraid of and why he does not come here in front of the MPs. And just as the law itself and what my colleague Bulj has said the secretary of state said that this law does not have some social component and I think it is wrong if it is a socially stimulating housing, it has a certain social component, but it should also have a demographic component and it is obvious that with these changes again, not only that as one colleague here said that this is one step in the right direction, although small, it is not even a matter, it is a purely anti-demographic measure because there is an increase in prices in difficult housing access precisely to the groups to which this law should provide housing. And the best way to do is to send these demographic measures to the government's general secretary of state, and it wasn't a message like some wanted to send a message to the minister, it was a message to the government because it happened after the Council of Demographic Revitalization meeting. The Secretary of State sent a message to this government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, all ministers that all you do is actually one big folklore and PR, and you're actually doing nothing and that the measures you're proposing are actually anti-demographic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71980	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71981	Thank you very much. So I can only repeat that these changes and additions are just opening up the possibility for public officials to be granted their apartments free of charge. Is there a better measure than free? So, with no compensation, no increase, free of charge. So the possibility opens, I stress that for deficiting occupations in less developed areas, so it can't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71982	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. Would anyone like to take a word from the board's representatives? Since we are not, we are moving on to the debate, the first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71983	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. As regards the Law on Encouragement, the aim of this law is to identify all areas in the Republic of Croatia through organised programmes involving local and regular administrations were those in urban or rural areas to achieve a more balanced development and to meet the stable needs and quality of housing as wide as possible of our fellow citizens. As regards the basic issues to be raised for faster and efficient implementation, they are highlighted in this proposal. But there's one important thing missing and it's demographic reconstruction and residential areas, so I suggest that it be added through this bill that makes use of public and other funds to cover housing costs by building apartments and houses. Furthermore, in order for this to be carried out, construction land where construction is permitted is required to be provided by the municipalities and cities that have to be provided in spatial planning documentation. I also suggest that so far, that the municipalities and cities of APN are necessarily included in... where they would present which benefits this law has passed when it comes to housing care for all those who have not resolved their status and also legal certainty regarding ownership of both the house and the apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we all have to do concerns faster efficiency between municipalities and cities and certain ministries in charge of this process when it comes to land owned by the Republic of Croatia because we cannot be satisfied with the solutions so far. Procedures take too long, although documentation is provided for solutions to the intended building land for residential areas and other land suitable for spatial construction plans. There's a lot of unnecessary and excessive paperwork that's very hard to collect, which further slows down our program. One suggestion relating to prices per meter of a square apartment or land which should be developed according to the proposal depending on the area to the area because the situation so requires, the differences in the segments of the construction of the municipal infrastructure are evident and these are the basis for assessing how much this must cost and, in particular, when municipalities and cities participate in certain procedures by investing in their own resources. I also propose that municipalities and cities must make sure that the plan is submitted to the resolution ministry, which highlights the interest in housing housing by the end of September of the current year, all to prepare a new plan of the ministry for the next year, where priority will be identified in which area should be put into spottably, depending on the number of stakeholders. As regards incentive measures, the Republic of Croatia provides financial resources through the budget, which is a major contribution to the realisation of the construction of the necessary houses and apartments for our citizens. Furthermore, it would be time to consider the possibility of additional measures and concerning the reduction of VAT, for the purchase of materials, for the execution of works and services, for the release of municipal and water contributions or for the reduction of water, for the construction of type houses, for connection facilities to the municipal infrastructure to be paid during consumption over a period of 5 years, for favourable low interest loans and longer repayment period. All of this could further reduce the costs of building itself and more interested and all those who have no settled housing issue and contribute to the birthright policy and development of local construction. Certainly offers must be for everyone, respecting all our professions. The reason is to keep as many users in each of our areas as possible. All this is a prerequisite for creating an economy as a basis for survival in rural areas, which I hope is the goal of all, not just the larger centres in the Republic of Croatia. I must stress that this proposal will improve the situation so far, that more housing units will be offered and thus a higher percentage of users leading to an increase in the number of residents and their needs are those from social, social or other infrastructures. Another important fact is that the development of housing will create jobs in the structure of service other activities without which it is not possible in reality to operate in a place where conditions for everyday life are created. The support in this proposal was given by the association of municipalities with minor additions, mainly in the light of the basic recognizable solutions which have so far been an obstacle to how to speed up the implementation of the construction of the care of our fellow citizens. The HDZ Club believes that certain proposals will be complemented and will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71984	One is a replica, dear fellow Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71985	My colleague, I agree in this part where you said that prices can't be logically the same in the neighborhoods and centres where the population is raised, where the GDP is better and we agree there and obviously this law is anti, so it's demographic and antisocial, but it's only admitted by the secretary. I'm sorry he's not a minister here. I'd agree to have a local community as well. However, physical capacities in mountain and mountain areas because we do not have a new law, from 2002 to 2014 has not changed. The question of local self-government, except for spatial blues where I can identify zones, where I agree with you, is that we do not have demographic measures that should be in these areas, and also anti-demographic measures, as you said, you also suggest that in all areas it is not the same price because it is impossible for people in the Dalmatian region, in your region, to freeze in Zadar, to be the same price as in Zagreb. Because it is not such an interest, nor do we have communal infrastructure and everything else we should have like in Zagreb. Therefore, this law, it is a fact, increases the price compared to the current one, compared to... Antidemographic and not regionally deployed according to undeveloped areas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club should be directed, because most of you, we can also refer the amendment. In this debate you can conclude that simply this Law is anti-demographic compared to so far. Because everything you stated was, in fact, in this direction and in this direction should be thought, not as the ministry suggested that a law which the secretary himself says publicly does not have any social component. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71986	Comrade Lonchar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71987	Comrade Bull, I can't agree with the part where you say it's an antique. All depends on the municipalities, cities and their interests and fiscal opportunities as much as they can participate in the construction of such programmes. However, what is very important. In my presentation, I highlighted certain problems which are evident and which need to be solved, and I am convinced that the ministry will recognise these problems, determine the facts and we can go beyond that to build all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71988	Let's move on. GLAS and HSU representatives' club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71989	... I'm yelling so hard, I thought the microphone was on, so I'm gonna start over. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the Law on Encouragement Building. And it's good to discuss, to discuss in the context of this law. This Law is relatively simple and has a series of provisions that actually apply only to harmonisation and where you change APN agencies and everything else. What this law is causing for all of us when we are discussing it is causing two topics. One topic is that the Republic of Croatia does not have a housing strategy. So we don't have a housing strategy in a way that we know what we want, how we want it to be, where it should be, and how it should be, so in the context of that today, there's going to be the next item of the agenda. And the second topic is actually that often through this law you read the social component. Now, we need to see how the subject of POS came about in the first place. The topic of POS was created in a way that it was an idea for municipalities and cities along with the state in their territory to read the needs they have and try to address their fellow citizens' needs for housing. On condition that municipalities and cities provided land, municipal equipment, and the state was building and so went POS. Then the POS, of course, turned into something else. Today we have three POSs. We have a classic POS, we have a POS plus that allows you to buy certain apartments that are on the market and we have a POS rental that has shown great interest among our citizens because you get into renting apartments and then decide over 3 years whether you will buy that apartment or not, and that you can then reduce the value of real estate, or the value of what you need to buy. And it was actually that idea that was and she was like that, especially this rent was pretty interesting. It was never really there, in that part, unless certain municipalities and cities had decided, it was this social component of giving. So the city could always buy an apartment for someone. But during time, however, it was defined for different ways. I always remember and always remember, and I will always say that as a great example in Zagreb POS... there were two POSs and they caused a big storm, out there in 2004-2005 and 2003-2004, respectively. One was Spain, which was built, it worked as POS, a radio town along with the state, and the other was in the eastern part of the city, one new settlement on the site of the former pig farm, and there was a big debate about it. And then the mayor, who was and was now very opposed to it because he said it was ecologically unacceptable. He absolutely obstructed everything he could obstruct, and that POS didn't realize as POS. The POS state, to put it that way, according to this law, and then the price of the apartment was searched, I think it was 790 euros per square, 800. And after that, the mayor of Bandic went to the minister at the time, bought state-owned projects for the POS from the minister and started building by the model of the Zagreb POS, made a settlement, the price of the apartment there was something below 1300 euros per square, and the mayor came and said it was cheaper than what was supposed to be the state-run POS. To even try to leave a job in a context that is. In the context of which, these amendments to the law have a part that is actually technical harmonisation, they have a part that is related to the etalon price, they have one newspaper that is in this law, which is renting apartments for employees and military personnel, police officers and public officials, and it is read as a demographic measure. It's not a demographic measure, it's something worse for you, and you have one cup of water, so here it is. That's good for these officers and for certain environments. Although lately, when you're always building about somewhere or being built together with the municipality or city, you've seen how much interest there is and in the City of Zagreb it's like, you have a job of 300 apartments in a municipality, let's say Funtana, which is in Istria, because there were two buildings, there were 4 apartments and in another 3. And it was absolutely agreed with the municipality and the city and so, you can build into the business and you can build a little bit and a lot, you can build as much as you need. To go back to this story that's tied up, which actually allows renting apartments. It's one of the measures we have, but let's be fair, so it's not that, it's just one way that you can do it a little bit. But it is not something that will move someone to go from one end of the country to the other side of the country, it will allow you to perhaps keep a doctor. However, the whole system of demographic measures, you have to give the man a chance to work, you have to give him safety, and then, if he has this, it's absolutely welcome. It goes back to those former stories in which you were always for a teacher, for a doctor for a veterinarian, the court provided an apartment, to attract him, that he might come and be there, at some other time. And I think it's a good thing that certain municipalities and cities have one number of apartments that they can afford, that it doesn't turn into what we have an example of audits to move in illegally and the rest of them have exactly the number of apartments that they can have and that way they're attractive to someone else. Now, there's something in the law, something to think about until the second reading, and I think that's what needs to be seen. In that provision that I already asked the secretary of state in the replica, so the rules will be laid down and said it could be APN. We except the APN that's at the state level, the Real Estate Agency,... We have regional agencies, we have Rijeka, we have Varazdin, we have Koprivnica and I, there may still be something, but I can't remember there now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be good for them to do the same. So that even locally allows it to actually, because they know exactly what it's about. How does POS even work? It works for POS to make certain municipalities and the city come forward and say we are interested in building in the POS system, having land or in some other way defining, coming into the agency that is at the state level, agreeing and then seeing the price project and everything else. Similarly, for some situations, the City of Zagreb was, indeed, an example, that the City of Zagreb did not want to participate in the state-run POS at all, and then the ministry through its agency, actually bought the whole project and built in the POS system, the POS system means that the state does not make money. So exactly what the prices are, that's it. I have to say that recently, thanks to this, we have two locations of POS in Zagreb and at both of these two locations were part of the apartments that were sold, part of the apartments were rented. However, the story of Split is always a great story. In Split he worked on the location... It's the location where, when the gorilla is, it's relatively close to the gorilla, so these skyscrapers were stacked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was really me at the end I think, some 500, 600 apartments that were in POS and we were doing, that is, one analysis was done, that is, an interview was done with citizens and about the rent, because everything was sold there and there was nothing possible to rent and then in Split, that poll showed 1500 citizens were interested in renting. In other words, what I want to do is use this law, and I want to say, I want to say, that the state should, therefore, state and state and unit of local self-government and county, somehow share a project of housing. So in this project of housing, the common ones who should know where we're going, what we want to get and what the ultimate goal is. That in this project, i.e. in the entire apartment, you should offer an entire leper, someone will go to buy an old one by the POS system, someone will use POS plus, someone will rent, someone will use subsidies, because they can use subsidies. So when we talk about demographic measures, one demographic measure is, that is, when we talk about demographic measures, what's most important is work, but on the other, you have to offer security, security of housing, security at home, the safety of someone who knows that they can easily change jobs. You know you can work a little bit, I don't know at Copiera, and then go behind that to work in Split and that apartment won't be a problem for you. This law is made technically correct, he has this one newspaper that is related to the lease. This newspaper, therefore, rent for active military personnel, i.e. in a way that is read as a demographic measure, which is what I said, I really don't read it that way, all related to the etalon price and this other thing, maybe it could also be defined by increasing or reducing the ethlon price, so it didn't have to be an amendment to the law. However, the amendment of the law has already been related to this, this new lease, and then this is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71990	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first one is a colleague of Vlaovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71991	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Mrak Taritaš in his presentation, you said Croatia has no housing strategy and I fully agree with you there is, then there would be no problem of eviction, and demographic desolation of Slavonia, Baranja and other undeveloped regions and my question is, to you, and you certainly know whether there were requirements for building apartments by model of POS from Pakrac, Lipik, Nasica, Orahovica, Slatina and similar smaller towns. It's not as far as I know, but it's not, it's certainly not because they didn't have any interest or that citizens of these cities don't have the need for housing, but it's the problem of the financial capacities of those units of local self-government. Because as you said yourself, it was necessary to prepare the land, communally equip it, and then jointly run this type of apartment building and allow at acceptable prices to resolve the housing issue of our fellow citizens. And I think that through this law and all the other laws that we bring here and debate, we must have this social component and social sensitivity that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the same chance to have more models to solve their apartment. And we see how that was solved, that for 20 years and more, we haven't solved the problem of protected tenants or apartment owners. And now, through this bill, we certainly don't go to the demographic restoration of devastationous areas, and you mentioned APN. There are a number of objects that they, the agency, bought. There are citizens living in these facilities, and not even today have solved their housing issue, so please here's a quick comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71992	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71993	Thank you very much. You've asked a few questions here, so a few questions about different subjects. You really know every country or every city should have its own kind of project, that is, its own housing strategy. It can always be done at the city level, but it should be done at the state level. And there's really a difference between housing and this social component. So it was always the idea that some of the apartments or some of the apartments would buy and buy some other things. The cities couldn't do that. But back to your initial question. I really think from Slavonia how much I remember there was no question. So, what we know, we know that Slavonia is devastated but we know that we have a surplus housing fund there, we know that we have a series of problems that are. But let's just say one of the POS buildings that was being built and I think she's already or already moved in, so I didn't really follow her around in Gospić. Let's say the missus had a need and there was one building from POS that was being built, and I guess it's already been used, and the keys and everything else have already been shared. Of course there is the most interest in the area by the sea. I didn't happen to mention this small municipality in Istria. Similarly, the interest was from Mali Losinj, Dubrovnik tried something and did something. And I purposely also mentioned Split and those interests that are in Split, the difference between the price that was in POS and the price that was on the market was enormous. So what people are really doing was saving them in that part. But what we need to distinguish, we need to distinguish this encouraging housing from social housing. And what turns out to be a need...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71994	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71995	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Taritash, you said it wasn't something, it wasn't a measure. What do you think that measure would be? We heard through your replicas now and we hear in this one through your fan look at this proposal in the first reading. So what exactly is the measure given your experience? After all, you were Minister, you were Minister and you were responsible for such questions. Yet the Ministry of Construction through this, through its agency, has made one proposal in the first reading and is trying to make a contribution to this very important topic. This proposal should be seen as one coordinated approach to finally several ministries. So what do you think we can observe, because from all these ministries these months we hear demographics, demographics, demographics. Can we also consider this one approach that will, of course, be further cleansed and bring concrete suggestions to the second reading why it was not observed that many cities and municipalities might get through this proposal, through what is most fundamental, which is what my colleague Loncar said, and that is to solve first through the spatial plans that we want in our area. And why don't we look at this measure as a positive one, one small step, and it doesn't have to mean he's the most ideal and the best. Let's say we in the Dalmatian Zagora know what we would need and we would need this measure the same for us. But here we are primarily in charge through spatial plans to define what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71996	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71997	Thank you very much for your replica. So I've been talking about housing policy all my exposure, and I've been talking about this being just one little thing, and it's going to have to be seen a lot wider. So this will help someone, and all they can do is help someone. But in terms of the development of demographicism and in terms of some strong demographic measures, it's not just that. But it's not in the context of what's in the sense of housing. It's important for mobility, it's important that someone who works somewhere can get very easily when they get a job elsewhere to move and have the opportunity to solve their living issue. What can you do about it? So there's the role of the community and the cities. You do, so I grew up when I was reading Mato Lovrak. And then when you read the teacher there she always had an apartment, he always had a secure doctor's apartment. In rural areas, he always had a secure apartment and a vet. Why? Because they knew it would be more attractive than anyone else. So from this measure, municipalities and cities should read the following thing, that they, together with the state, have these apartments at their disposal and that they know that they can get someone in these apartments and thus become attractive, or if they think between one municipality and another. But we are now ready for a social measure for a social story, when you see where we came from, we must have one social measure and social category in terms of demographic category, but don't let someone who advocates who's somehow liberal who's talking about it better talk to someone else, but reality is like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71998	Thank you, too. The next replica of Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u71999	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Dark-Taritash. So we these measures we all who worked in this business know that the Law on Encouragement Housebuilding must be seen in relation to the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. It binds the funds that cities could and have 45% of the resources that could and could, and thus, invest those funds in infrastructure and the like. This law is very good and it has proved to be a good incentive for housing because what you last mentioned allows that in the criteria that have been very rigid so far, then the rights have not at all had those persons applying which anywhere had some real estate, and in this case especially officials who, or any other workforce needed, need the right to mobility and the possibility that they can have an apartment in rental anywhere in the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important and opens up the possibility that in this way much simpler and much easier to solve housing problems, and then from everything and demographics that is here in the second plan. So I really believe that these measures through the Law on Encouragement Building can be very helpful because they opened that possibility, and what I know from their practice in 2003 we worked in the area of the city of Zadar where the price of the apartment was, and somewhere around 700 euros because the city invested its land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72000	Thank you, too. The answer to Mrs. Dark-Taritash's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72001	Thank you very much. It is on the trail that depending on how much the city is willing to invest land or some other stuff and depends on the final price of the apartment. So this is something that the state can't do alone, or an indicator is that, in certain cases, when the city ignores it, I deliberately speak the case of the city of Zagreb, but it's primarily a joint project of state and city, and that's how it should be looked at. But I do speak very rarely, and I try not to say what was before, which was now, which is who who did so that I am extremely glad that you are discussing in this way for what reason? The POS was launched there by the government of Mr. Racan and there were still some remains of POS and the last one was in 2004, then for two mandates of the government that was the HDZ had completely forgotten about the POS, it was very little and it was said that it was something that did not want to deal with at all. And the government in which I was re-launched POS, opened POS Plus, POS Rent, and it's good to open this and it's good to show now that we all think that POS should continue and that the state along with municipalities and cities should build certain apartments. But we have come to the point that we should continue to see what is the role of the city and the municipalities, and what is the role of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72002	Next is the last replica Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72003	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. So not only about housing policy, you mentioned the word strategy, that there is no such thing as not to be seen as a vivid expression that Minister Maric took a low start when he left with a real estate tax in the Republic of Croatia, it is an indication that he does not understand the situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located, in fact some of its regions. We are talking about regions although trying to avoid this topic in the Republic of Croatia. And you're right to say what this law is in practice until now and what else it might get. In Osijek, there were 50 first polled, 50 interested, 50 bids in 2015 in Vukovar Street. Do you know how many 38 apartments have managed to sell them all? 14. Then she went to your rental measure, which was why these apartments were put into operation. And you know why? The simple reason was that you were already able to buy a square for 800 euros in downtown Osijek, and since the city did not go with the land prices of this POS was about a thousand euros, so 200 euros more. This is where we come to the problem of the market relationship and what we want with this legal solution, and above all we want to achieve the price to be lower than the market dictates. And that in Zagreb, probably in Dalmatia we will succeed in the headquarters of cities, but will this colleague Vlaovic rightly ask, had in Slavonia a chance to make this law ever come to life? We doubt that because different measures should then be taken. We don't make the law for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, but obviously we miss something then, especially for these less developed areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72004	The answer to Mrs. Dark-Taritash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72005	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, so you mentioned a few things in your replica that you should talk about. Croatia has 556 municipalities and towns, 557 is the city of Zagreb and the situation is different and we have to take care of it. Indeed, in Osijek, the city was not ready to enter the POS project and we then achieved that the price per square metre was 1034 euros which was the price of land plus construction and plus everything else and we then rented apartments and that building is full and it is used. I don't see any reason to say in certain areas we'll be building apartments for rent. That's where it's supposed to be. And that's how you do it? You regulate the gray market rent. So, I don't see any reason for the state to say, along with some community and city, or I say, we'll build a house, a building where everything will be rented. So if someone decides to buy it, they'll buy it. In this way you regulate the gray market, let's actually allow that mobility to be said so I'm hired so I'm hired in Osijek and I'm going to work a little bit in Rijeka. So there are a number of things to read. But it's really different in Slavonia than in all this part by the sea. I'm deliberately saying no one's offended. So then there were 1035 I think there were Euros per square in Osijek. In parallel, it was perhaps half a year before the finished building in Pula, where the price was 690 euros per square because the city of Pula gave land that was communally equipped and could, so this was the whole thing that was the price of construction and everything else. So there's always you, there's no one to do it alone. No one's an island. As the city of Zagreb behaves like an island, so it thinks it can be alone, can't be alone, can only be together, but in different ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72006	Thank you. And now we're really going on with the representatives' clubs, Mr. Ivan Pernar, the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA. Here you go, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72007	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We are witnessing that the state is unable to resolve the housing of our citizens. Why? Now, that's an enigma, that's the question I'm asking all of you. The issue of household rights of those who were entitled to housing rights in private apartments was resolved by giving them the status of a protected tenant. Now that status is actually being abolished and it's preparing to dissipate 10,000 of our fellow citizens. Why hasn't the state solved it, none of us do. And she should have. The other thing the state did wrong, or false/guilty, was when it came to those housing savings. That's when the state told the citizens you're investing money in housing savings, and from the state you'll get incentives. But what happened? People were building housing contracts to tell them at the end of the country, and we changed our minds. We've changed our minds, so we won't give you any encouragement. Then the state, namely this government, has, unfortunately, made amendments to the Law pay real estate tax and first real estate, which has led many young families to the situation that they actually have an additional cost of, say, 30-40 thousand kuna. And what's scariest is, the moment you buy an apartment on credit, you have to report it to the IRS and you get the solution that you have to pay within an hour I don't know, 8, 9, 10 days 30-40 thousand kuna. Where does a young family come from to create that? There's no way they're going to tighten interest rates. Then we come to the issue of today's debate about encouraged housing. Of course, we are in favour of allowing young people, and all others, to buy apartments by housing that is cheaper than ordinary. However, where is the main problem? The main problem is unresolved land books, or rather this: urban plans are the main problem. So, municipalities and cities, for example, especially at sea, did not bring urban plans that would allow the development of construction. And because of that, there was an outbreak of illegal construction on the one hand, and the other cause of illegal construction was related to the fact that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72008	Mr. Pernar, is something wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72009	So I don't know until they think they keep talking there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72010	Excuse me, excuse me. Mr. Pernar asks how long do you think to talk there I'll take it from here. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72011	So the root of the problem was the lack of urban plans on the one hand, and on the other hand the enormous municipal compensation. You build a house, if a house or an object, an apartment costs a caricure, a million kuna, you will pay at least 400 thousand kuna for connections, papers, etc. The state could without a problem, very easily eliminate the need for stimulating housing on a simple policy to enable construction, which currently does not allow, making life difficult for people and reducing the price of connections. Problem solved. We wouldn't have to argue here today. Instead of doing so, it means instead of dealing with the cause of the problem, the state is dealing with the consequences, and then inventing the Law on the Legalization of Unlawful Construction, establishing an Agency for Legalisation of Unlawful Buildings, etc. Why? Because it does not understand the legislator that illegal construction is not the cause of the problem but the consequences. As a consequence of the price, as I said, these fees for construction of connections and municipal compensation itself, and that urban plans do not exist, or are not in line with the needs of citizens, resulting in illegal construction. The state went further to remove it – it did not. The state doesn't care at all. The legislator doesn't care. Instead, it is behind an inselective legalisation of illegal construction that will partially help people, and in part, it is a matter of building somewhere where it really shouldn't have been built. But what's the matter, why didn't the state crash the lawless construction? The answer is simple. Because she had so much that the idea itself was insane, so instead of the state saying this, look, 90% of the place can be built, and in 10% of the place you can't, and where someone went to those 10% of the building, it brought down illegal construction, and on these 90%, it allowed people to build there, we wouldn't have a problem with illegal construction today, but that problem has not been solved until today. And this measure of this encouraging housing is, in its nature, positive, I repeat, but does not solve the cause of the problem, the cause of the problem is that because of the lack of urban plans and because of the high prices of these all charges that I have mentioned, people are expensive apartments and houses, because of that. That's why it's hard to build, you need a million permits. Watch this thought, the state charges you a utility fee per cubic of the space you have, and then people have low ceilings in buildings, houses, why? To be less cubic, an object, to pay less. That's crazy. Why can't people develop? Why is it that people live in as small houses as possible? Why can't every family have as many rooms for their child as they need? Why can't people have big houses? It's a question to ask. Why, because someone who works at the highest level does not go after making life easier for the Croatian people, that the cheap price of construction, to enable construction, no, is not going after it. It's about making people's lives worse, making life harder, making it impossible for families to have normal space for their children and seeing how much children are getting smaller. The population's getting smaller. The population fell in 10 years for nearly 400,000 in Croatia. The number of children in schools fell from 400,000 to 317 000 in the same year. We're having a rapid demographic breakdown and we're dealing with what? We have laws that restrict the construction or development of the state. So what are the laws? Let people build, bring urban plans so it can be built. You'll say maybe we in Croatia have a place, say, where the green area is in terms of the forest. For example. in Makarska or I am a cartoon, there is a municipality of Podstrana, near Split, there is a beautiful forest in which they want to build. And I understand the legislator to say look, I'm sorry, it can't be built here, this forest has been there for a long time, it's not good to have everything concreteized, okay, Croatia has a huge coast, there are 1,000 islands, there's a state plan to build a new settlement, let's find us a suitable location along the coast, let's urbanize that location, let's do it if we need a city from nothing. Croatia is, I don't know if you know, as many marinas as Croatia has, we will always have yachts that will want to come. Nautical tourism is live money. All we have to do is work the marinas. The state doesn't allow it, it doesn't allow development. I suggest that the state rather than dealing with the consequences, deal with the cause of the problem. So it sets new urban areas for development along the entire coast and of course that development is organised, to say ok, here's 30% will be the green area and the rest will be built. But the state doesn't go for it and that's why we have a problem with urban chaos, etc., so there's no vision. There's no vision and palitative solutions are offered. I'm saying a first-real tax has been introduced, no housing rights issue has been resolved for those tenants in private apartments who are about to lose the status of a protected tenant. The first real estate tax was introduced. These are questions that are not resolved but are serious questions, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because here in Parliament we exist and for ourselves, so each of us here is looking at our own interests but also for other people, and part of the MPs here act as if they exist solely for themselves and not for others. It's a big delusion. So we have to go after how to make life easier for people, how to make people more independent. When I say more independence, what do I mean by that? Well, it's not the state's goal to depend on the state, it's not the state's goal of having everyone depend on a place in bureaucracy, etc., so the country's goal is to friend, here's your marina, build a marina, be a rich man. Here's your loan. The goal is here's your house, build it, have 10 apartments, be rich. Be your own man. Have a nice car, have a happy family, stay here in Croatia, don't go anywhere, it should be the goal of the country. The state has a central bank, half of all islands in the Mediterranean are in Croatia, 8% of the Mediterranean coast is in Croatia, we have such an opportunity to develop and for what we use it for nothing. Slavonia is falling apart, no vision. I'm asking you, Mr. Uhlir, you came here from the Ministry. So what's your vision? Is this how we currently live in Croatia, is that your vision? Is your vision bought or owned by apartments where the tenants are currently protected? What's the problem in Croatia is that, it's not a problem in wealth, I want all people to get rich, the problem is that in Croatia, the concept of wealth, is connected to how I'm going to steal all of you now. It is in Croatia the concept of wealth. It's not the concept of wealth, here, sir. Build something, make something, so be rich. No, the question is, how am I gonna get something that isn't mine? And why is that? Because the state, why do people go to Croatia for crime? So it goes that in a fair way you can't succeed in life. Make it possible for people to build legally, so there won't be any illegal construction. Let people make money, so people won't go out to Germany or I don't know where they all don't, but you don't care. You won't let people build marinas, you won't let people build apartments and houses, you won't cut their VAT, you'll raise their VAT to 25%, etc. We've become a state of parasites in which, unfortunately, it would be fortunate if we were the parasites only 151 here. The problem is that just half of the total society, that is, half of all employees in Croatia are actually turned into parasites to the backs of the other half. And there's no vision, there's no development, there's no life, this is just life. And I'm not, I don't mind people being rich, making money, building. Oh, my God, you know why? Well, then we'll have bigger salaries in Parliament. So if people live better, if society is richer, then we'll have a higher salary. Do I want a higher salary? Yes, I will, but under these conditions, I will give you a higher salary, where the population falls, and the number of MPs remains the same? I won't. And those who remain will live harder and harder, they will say, Pernar, that you are not ashamed to receive such wages as I benefit from you. But if you were doing your job, if you had a vision, if you were doing good, no one would have a problem, and if our salary was twice the pay, if our salary was 30,000 kn, people wouldn't object, if they had an average salary of 2000 euros. So there's no big pay problem in Croatia in the Parliament, no. The problem is that we, 151 in the Parliament, have turned 4 million people black, which is the worst with their support. Because these same Croatian citizens voted for us and allowed us to live on their coat of arms. Well, come on, if they've already made it possible for you, then give them a normal life at the very least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72012	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. There's no point in telling you that the Law was about housing and that you've expanded the subject quite a bit, but it doesn't matter now, but it's important that we all welcome together the students, with us the students and the effects of the Technical School from Rijeka, 40 of them, who came to remind us and listen to us, Mr. Pernar and all of us here, so please give us a round of applause. ... And Mr. Pernar will have a chance to speak now, because he has a replica. [[Applause.]] Well, the first replica is Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72013	Dear Representative Pernar, you've basically said, one very interesting thing, and that's that this government only knows how to work in the interests of banks. So everything they do, they do in their favor, they offer young families loans. So that's the solution, let's let the banks make money on interest, and those interest rates will be co-financed by the government. It's the same trap, which, in its own time, former HDZ president Ivo Sanader, spoke until about 10-12 years, took loans, you have state incentives, you'll have interest subsidies, you'll have salary growth, collective agreements were signed. And then all that was lifted overnight, courses, let's say the francs changed, interest changed, subsidies were gone, etc. And people stayed with loans that last 30 years practically for life, the whole working life. And now the government says, here's four years you'll have some incentive, and what happens after that? After that, a man has to stay in one job for 30 years, because he can't for a month, not pay the war on credit, God forbid he gets sick, etc. And this can basically happen that people fall back into debt slavery, and it's probably going to fall, to look back at the conjectures, to look at people who are left without a single home. This country, if it really has good intentions, should have young families and those deficit personnel who mention giving apartments and giving houses because Croatia already has tens and tens of thousands of empty properties at the moment. So if they stay living in them and carry on, to carry on the development of someone's end, say, 10 or 15 years, then it's simply that kind of real estate that stays. But, no, it's important, therefore, to work again in the interest of large capital and to falsely represent it as some kind of concern for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72014	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72015	Oh, Mr. Bunjac, the thing is very simple, the possibility of a government borrowing is getting smaller every day, because the state has less and less assets. And creditors are pressing the state, we no longer want to give you credit to the extent that you want to, without further sale of state property. And yet on the other hand, the state doesn't want to sell, say, HEP, right now, it doesn't want to privatise highways etc. And then what happened, then there was a question, how to allow the money to keep coming into circulation. In what way can the further development of society, and in this system it is possible only on credit without the state being in debt. A "genial solution" has emerged, so let's push the citizens back into debt. It's this government's strategy. But the problem in our Croatia is not that people don't raise loans, the problem is that the monetary system is based on debt, which has no development strategy, which I explained etc. And this law is a partial solution that, here's exactly what I'm going to tell you what they're going to do. It will come to the conclusion that maybe 100 families, 200, 300, 400 will raise such a loan. He'll have a few years of subsidized interest. And what's changed? Nothing. You say the state will subsidize interest. It will. However, the point of the whole story is that those who build these apartments or whatever they are going to give the same part of the money to the state. But I mean, the goal is basically to push people into loans. And the whole policy of this government is about pushing people into loans, even those protected tenants who now want to depose and tell them, say take the credits, too. But that system is not sustainable. Credits can't be returned because money for interest payments doesn't exist. This was explained to you by Larry Hannigan in 1971 in his book “I Want Earth Plus 5%. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72016	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. We're past time. Thank you. Mr Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72017	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Pernar, you have stated that the issue of urban plans is one of the key issues in solving a number of problems. But let's take each other's side of the medal. You probably know more about city systems because you come from the city, but in these areas you listed both Slavonia and undeveloped. There's definitely no problem with urbanism. In my community, in neighboring municipalities there we have as much space as we want. So at the time when Slavonia grew before the war, before the HDZ and SDP governments reversed us, then we definitely had a need to expand, the population settled. Now we have a situation that actually these urban plans are too big, that no one needs them. Not only do we not need new land building, but we don't even need housing because we now have several thousand euros, and very soon they will be free. Not only will it be free, one new trend that has gripped all of us together, we know that when one of your parents or loved ones dies and you don't even take over that property, because that property only brings you expenses. You leave the municipality or the city where you live, give up and knowing that they will burden you, and your job, your existence, you are looking for in some developed part of Croatia. Most of the time, we talk about Zagreb, even though Zagreb is not soft anymore, but is leaving Croatia. And then the question is, which way are we going? If we're going to, here's the question. Whether we will go to build apartments in Zagreb or go to solve problems in rural areas that account for more than 90% of Croatia. Are we still going to represent that the population is moving to large centres or are we going to develop places, small villages? These are the questions we're discussing, and I support you on that trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72018	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72019	Mr Panenic, the core of the problem in Slavonia is not in Slavonia, it is not a problem there. The problem is in the central bank located in Zagreb, which leads such a course policy that makes import products cheaper than domestic ones. And as long as it doesn't work out, production won't be worth it. And even that production that would possibly be worth it, like growing hemp. See the price of Indian hemp? What's the pound, gram? Well, all the villagers could get rich if they were allowed to. But the state forbids them in Slavonia, so let's put it this way. Unreal exchange rates, interest rates and a ransom price, for example, make the milk of the state profitable. Import milk is cheaper. Then these guys can blackmail and tear down the price of milk incessantly, and then the milk cows go to the slaughterhouse. No potatoes, no carrots, no wheat, nothing. So it's a course policy. And then, on the other hand, this government has another policy called tax policy, a fiscal policy where a farmer has to pay salary contributions for a year, etc., and the income will not be made for another year. And then all the villagers go into the blockade, that's the second part of the problem. And the third part of the problem is that there are a few cultures like Indian hemp, which means high profits, which wherever its production is legalized means in America in the states of Colorado, California, etc. There is growth and growth and tax revenues, and the work for the courts that have processed it is reduced, they are more disbursed, and we know that they are overloaded with us. And a lot of people got rich growing that. And in the end, there is also a medical use of it where people are cured because of it. All this unfortunately our Croatia ignores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72020	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, in your debate, you are indeed misleading many people, which is not even strange, we are talking about the Law on Encouragement, and you are persecuting the concepts of the basic Law on the Communist Economy. If you had a single mayor or mayor to teach you these concepts, you wouldn't be deluding people in the House, so we talked about the communal fee being paid per cubic, communal contribution per square. As far as encouraging housing is concerned, we in Vrgorec have conducted encouraging housing and have applied and made one program and defined everything for 20 apartments. 13 people came to us, and of these 13 people, half of them are not creditworthy because the average wages in mountain-mounted rural areas are not equal to the average salaries in Zagreb and urban areas. Therefore, people are not at all creditworthy to enter these apartments. But to say that 400,000 kunas pay for some connections and not the rest. We release them, too, but let's not be fooled that people have to pay 400,000 kuna for connections to build family homes and something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72022	The answer, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72023	Mr. Pranjic, I was really wrong. There is a difference between the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation. The communal contribution you explained is paid once per cubicity, and the communal fee per square. She pays permanently. However, the point is not at all different from those two concepts, but the point was somewhere else. The point was the way the system works or basically what I said. And I said that with the high charge of the municipal or by charging for construction by cubic instead of square, people have low ceilings, that in all new buildings there are low ceilings. Why? Because it's paid by the cubic, my dear friend, when you build an apartment or a house. You didn't realize it, or you didn't realize the point, grab the detail. So how many times has every one of us been talking here, and I've been talking for hours here and for days I can tell you, it's just a technical mistake or a speech error that doesn't affect the very thought or essence that you wanted to make. And as for the rest of what you said, you didn't look back on what I'm telling you, which is that on the Dalmatian coast there are no generally developed urban plans, that no new settlements are planned. So the state should say okay if there's no room to build, for example. in Split, if there is no room for construction in the town of Supetar on Brač, make a new town, build a new settlement, build nice that this planfully super looks like we have a huge coast. But like I said, there isn't, and you didn't do much about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72024	Thank you. Mr. Davor Lonachr's final replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72025	My colleague Pernar, just now a colleague from Vrgorec, has only started two things, and I am sorry that you present so many lies when it comes to the unit of the local administration. I'm sorry that you haven't met what was at all the goal of forming units of local administration since '93. To this day. I responsibly claim that there are no units of local administration in Croatia without a spatial plan. This was a fundamental issue after the establishment of '97, and the deadline for drawing up these plans was 2006 which was one thing. The other thing, so many prepared urban and detailed plans have units of local administrations, and especially when it comes to housing care so that I would ask you to check with all municipalities and cities what is this... As far as utility connections are concerned, so many miles of water supply networks and other municipal infrastructures have been built to create conditions for the public to carry out the connected municipal infrastructure. And so I ask that certain information be returned to my colleague Pranic once more, please check before you say so. This is all just a fantasy in your head, but it's not a real picture on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72026	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72027	Sir, I'm leaving assuming I'm stupid, and you're smart. So then you as a smart man explain to me, if the cost of the contribution of the state's utility to the construction, if the prices of the power connections are small or favourable and if there are urban plans, then why are there a million illegal objects? Then why do people build without law? You say there are urban plans, that there are. And what are they like? One that you can't build. Here we can make for Croatia 100,000 urban plans, but the plan is such that you can't build your own land. The other thing, what you're saying, this is a big con, and I'll tell you why. You say sir that because people paid could build infrastructure, okay, you have to pay some wages. Yeah, but then who owns that infrastructure? There's a trick, that's where you rob people. So people pay for the electricity connection, they pay for the sewers, they pay for this, they pay for that, but do they end up getting shares? No, I don't. You citizens are fools, you are stupid and we will rob you in a way that you will pay for building infrastructure, and you HDZ will hire them there your earrings, your relatives, your friends, etc. Then you'll privatize it and get yourself a commission. It's your model of management of Croatian sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72028	Let's move on. In front of the SDP representative club, Mr. Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72029	Thank you, Vice President. Here we are discussing the Law on Social Encouragement, and here is the often mentioned word of the point. The point is next, the law was written in 2001, it is now 2018 and, fortunately, the circumstances on the ground have changed significantly over the past 17 years. This law, or amendments to the law, technically corrects certain things in terms of the price of squares in terms of the price of land squares, but does not essentially solve the essence of the whole problem. In particular, I come from the town of Daruvar, which was in the incentive housing program in 2004 or fifth, the apartments are sold, today it is impossible to do so in the town of Daruvar and I believe in more than half of the local self-government units. The secretary from the ministry has not informed us, for example, the basic thing, how much the encouraging housing procedures are now in local self-government units, of course because this information is defeating or saying that it lets us know how many apartments have been built and sold over the past two, three or four years. This confirms one thing that the programme is simply outdated, that they need new measures, that the capacities of the vast majority of local self-government units are very small that here I don't know who said, I think, my colleague Vlaovic, that most units of local self-government don't even have for this participation that communal equipment infrastructure, and in particular that we don't enter into the fact that the prices of real estate in the vast majority of Croatia are significantly less than the price of POS apartments, that simply people are here and Vrgorec when half of them want to raise the loan simply can't raise it. And a country centralised as the Republic of Croatia requires much greater financial influence or participation in this project. Unfortunately, he is gone, and I am sorry that the HDZ has so many mayors and commissioners in the House that they simply do not initiate with any of their proposals, i.e. by pressing the Ministry and the Government to simply be one of the measures means more than 90% of the state budget remains in the state, does not remain on the ground and especially in the situation in which the country is situated is unfortunately, or with little happiness only usable in those units of local self-government, which is the city of Zagreb, the coast and more developed parts of Croatia that can build in this way where the prices of apartments are significantly higher than a thousand hundred, 200 euros, I am talking to you. But I didn't miss much. In particular, many, and for technical reasons, POS projects stand in cities that want to do this, we are specifically talking about Rijeka, Koprivnica. They have sent comments concerning technical matters and say they are allegedly responsible that when you talk about a programme that the state intends to improve the housing of state and public officials, that is, POS that this does not apply to employees of local self-government units. Here, I'd like that answer if you'd give me that. Also, as far as the agency is concerned, you call them non-profit legal entities. This term is used primarily more for associations than for societies. Cities start these d.o.s. and they just can't, they can make some kind of profit, they'll probably make it. What about taxes? You should give an answer to that question. It is also very important for cities and municipalities to regulate that their agencies can be in debt without that debt entering the unit's cap of responsibility for local self-government. In fact, here's the debt coming back from the agency's income, not burdening the budget and, in any way, any way. And it's just very important because of the budget, there are cities that already have loans, and just because of this, I can't go into the process. And I also don't know, I don't know if it's settled as it's not defined by the law or why state incentives are being granted to local agencies, whether it's APN or the ministry, for years it's been done by APN, but the Ministry of Finance has declared that practice illegal, it should be regulated, because while the ministry and APN are breaking up POS projects. I think even because of this small part of the local self-government units that are trying to solve this problem, a new measure should be invented, a measure that will function as a demographic reconstruction of the entire country, which will be in the function of revitalising passive areas in Croatia. Because I remind you, there's been a new systematicization by the development of local self-government units, 50% are formally underdeveloped, in nature we know it's even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72030	Thank you, too. There were no replicas. That's how we move on. Mr. Miro Bulj, individual debate. Mr. Bull, we're listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72031	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here again I will show my dissatisfaction as a representative because on such an important subject and on all relevant topics, it will not come before us parliamentary representatives, Mr Štromar, and because there is a lot of ambiguity and question here, however, it is his right to demean Parliament because not once does, any legislative initiative speaks to the Parliament. Today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, i.e. The Law on Social Encouragement, which brings an increase in the sale price of the apartment and the highest selling price of the building land, and I suggest it myself and I have thought, following all this which I will make that these changes are abandoned without implementation, because without details of the assessment of the social effects, the demographic effects. Because we have to say that it is undeniable that this Law on Social Encouragement has been built since 2001 until today, that more than 8 thousand apartments have been built in 75 units of local self-government. Yes, these investments launched in POS construction are 4 billion and 100 million kuna, which means one large part and an important step. However, in order for us to look at these economic effects, social impacts because this is an anti-demographic measure. We need to know that here we do not have any proposal for demographic effects, we do not have what we should be and what our colleague secretary of state was in charge of a few days ago and said that this is a folklore without strategy and vision because we have to say, I will also mention what counterpart Panenic said a few moments ago that the simple Croatian village is empty and mainly undeveloped landscapes. So these estates that are inherited by younger heirs simply become a burden to them, simply many remain or donate to local self - administrations. So this law should go towards demographic measures mainly towards undeveloped but the relationship is such that we simply have a 2 year law promised by the competent Ministry of Regional Development on mountainous and mountainous areas that we do not have it yet, that the Law on Regional Development of a number of municipalities and cities such as Drniš and similar literally have no more inhabitants, where literally young people go away in increasing numbers. And here I said just before a devastating number, 26 thousand inhabitants moved from the Krka river to Neretva, the Dalmatian Zagora. So this law really is the only thing he's done is increase the price. Of course local self-government and regional self-government and states can solve this problem together, but believe me, there are more empty villages in Dalmatia than I think, literally empty space, burned country. So we have to change this policy so that these hears come to life, to hear the crying of children in these areas, simply in this way we continue to encourage if we don't have a social component, if we don't have a demographic component, if we don't look at regional development, undeveloped ends, then this law is really anti-demographic, and we all refer to demographics and those areas that are empty and really all the elements and facts about it. So right now, here I'm going to read exactly, the current total, according to this current law that was passed last year, the current total maximum price is 1.125.66 euros per metre of useful apartment area, and these changes will total up to 1206 euros per metre of apartment per square metre, which means that the square meter will be 80.34 euros per metre per square metre. So social categories don't stand a chance because even now this law should have looked at and what counterpart Pranjic said, let simply people have no conditions to increase the squares regarding creditworthiness. Therefore, I would ask that you honor the secretary, this law, regardless of what is in the first reading, he was not made analytically, statistically we have no indicators, he simply wrote... Obviously he didn't have the courage of Minister Stromar, so he sent you, this is one folklore, one validation mostly 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think a serious approach is a shame to withdraw this law, and even the HDZ club, a fellow representative said just now, his ambiguity that is, this demographic part towards regional development and underdeveloped areas, we simply don't have these statistical indicators here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mentioned the Dalmatian Zagora, here are my colleagues who come and will agree with me that numerous villages are empty, sometimes full, once a source of human potential because they were numerous families, now they are putting out schools and transportation of public, simply people are leaving and in this direction they should go, these statistical indicators, these statistical indicators, these demographic indicators, these demographic indicators that are not good, we all know that they should pass one law of encouraging housing and survival in the current houses and apartments because simply we have too many empty houses in these areas of Slavonia, Zagorje, Gorski Kotar, Ravni kotar, Like, Dalmatian Zagora zagora, and therefore here again, it would be the most correct that this anti-demographic, anti-social proposal to amend the Law on the promotion of housing should be withdrawn, that in the interest of these undeveloped areas, and that we will be able to prepare for this matter to be very seriously, and to be very serious, as well as to be one of the firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, firstly, and then. Once again, call the minister, you have time, withdraw this law, here are no corrections, there are no amendments because there are no statistical indicators and prepare one law that will be both demographic and social and that we will have parliamentary representatives of the possibility to help you make these 2/3 of Croatia with this law as one small wheel really be a law that will serve the survival of young people in this area rather than leaving because here only in changes of the law is an increase compared to the current ones by 80 euros, slightly more than 80 m square meters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72032	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, Mr. Kirin's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72033	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Bulj, a socially stimulating apartment building or POS, is carried out to build apartments that are sold on a meal payment under conditions that are more favourable than market conditions in terms of interest and payment deadlines. The championship on the purchase of apartments has citizens who for the first time acquire an apartment owned and for the purpose of housing. So, you have to count the land price, all the permits you kept mentioning, the material, the costs, the labor force. What do you think the price should be as close to the cost of building and would it be an important social and demographic measure as you mention that not so many young people would move out or should there be anything else besides housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72034	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72035	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very So I would tell you if it wasn't the same construction, the same price in Zagreb or in our lower regions of the Dalmatian Zagora or Slavonia. But here is the key story that we have here a law that is from 2001 and which has really had certain effects because it has over 8,000 apartments in a number of units of encouraging housing according to certain criteria we have effects. At present, this Law has no effect other than an increase in price. This change to increase the price by 80 euros per metre square metre. This is a encouraged apartment building. However, there is no social component here that is very important for demographic restoration in the area where people are weaker in property and are therefore leaving. No jobs. These are your areas of the Dalmatian Burn, like, the Mountain Kotar, your... where you live, Slavonia, Zagorya. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this Law is just a fellow HDZ on behalf of the club and all colleagues who spoke afterwards agree that this Law in first reading, but here there is simply no change, we have no statistical indicators. This law cannot be like 2001. The indicators were different back then. And he had his effects in the following years. 8 thousand apartments were built after all, and people moved in, first real estate... And by this law, the only thing that changes this Law is just making an increase in price and automatically it is anti-demographic at this point and antisocial. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't think we have any indicator here that's the goal of amending this law, and that's why it would be good for him to back down, and there's no minister to talk seriously about and to get this bill done, not just to be a folklore like Mr. Strmota said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72036	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72037	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bulj, I understand your frustration and dissatisfaction with the price that will be for young families, and I understand the situation and as when a parent thinks primarily about your child, at the end of what it looks like, and me and you as a parent will be happy if our child is in the nearest big city. But when I look at your nearest big city of Split, where the prices of real estate and where they grow. Then what? Is this really a measure that follows this trend? It needs to be increased. So when you want to help your child that, since you can't help him have a job, stay where he lives, simply help to get somewhere further residential, so of course he's burdening you. It would burden me the same way because buying real estate is always something where in our terms parents, families are expected to help solve this problem. Of course, then we come to problems like this that definitely burden us. So, in fact, the key question that is being asked is what do we want to achieve? And again I'm going back to what I am and my colleagues Pernar, whether we're helping these kids stay where real estate already exists, whether we're helping them get a job or actually this is another burden to those who can just say I'm going to help you where you're looking for your future because there's no future in Sinj, there's not even in Vukovar, there's not in many other places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72038	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72039	A colleague of Panenic, who is simple and this Law, is the amendment of this Law to a large environment and, of course, it is a great interest for young people to live in Split, Zagreb and, of course, that there is a great demand and that it will savage prices. Instead of freezing this law, here I am talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, one more time from the Krka River to Neretva, compared to 2011. Twenty-six thousand people are smaller on the list. According to the 2016 statistics. So this law is also anti-demographic. We now have to simply adapt our policy, and this is just a wheel to survive these young people, our children in these areas, and this is well known by Mayor Vrgorca and our colleague from Trilj, that it is a key problem to leave people in our areas. We have to make as much effort as you in Slavonia to stay. But this law isn't. And this is evident from the discussion of clubs where HDZ colleagues also warn of ambiguity and statistics where they are not visible and we do not have social measures. With this law, we only increase the price and it follows that trend of moving into larger environments. I live in the country, and that's where I'll stay. I'm sending a message that there's a much better quality of life in the country in the back than in the centers. That's why we should invite people back to the country. Without rich villages, if we don't have – we don't even have a rich country. And it's a fact now, both evident and agriculturally, and in everything we're looking at, meaning that we're following all the trends, it's easy to destroy the village. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72040	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will hear from Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72041	However, the need has emerged for me to get involved in the name of the promoter, because the debate is going from some MPs in a completely wrong direction. Let's try to concentrate a little bit, let me try to contribute to this debate in a way from whoever wrote it, which suggests this law. So, the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartmentry, as the name suggests, encourages housing. And that's what he's been doing since 2001. Currently, it is in the construction of 350 apartments with 950 apartments that follow. So, first of all, it's not true that the encouraged housing is dying, that it's not working, that it's not going, that there's no interest. Second, the Law was written in a way that the local administration actively participated. So, the local administration is actively involved. Where there's data, where local administration wants to build encouraging housing, there's an APN going to build apartments. So you can't build apartments on the unknown, there has to be a clearly indicated need. As far as democratic influences are concerned, as far as demographic influences are concerned, of course there are, they just need to be identified through all the possibilities this Law provides. Maximum price, yes, maximum because it is valid for the entire Republic of Croatia, for Split, Zagreb and Dubrovnik, but it is the maximum price allowed. How much local administration participates, the lower the price of the total apartment is on the real estate market and local administrations. It's a non-profit business, and it can't do business with a minus. It is therefore important to have several basic facts in mind when it comes to the Law on Social Encouragement. As for particularly these changes and additions, they are currently related to the promotion of the demographic structure. It can't be better, I answered that in my replica. It cannot be better if we go in the direction of insignificant compensation intended to help public services and deficits to stay in the middle, but again to those who demonstrate these needs. The state can't do this centrally. They always have to come local from the field. The town of Metkovic is building as many as a hundred and a few apartments because it is a city of need, not because it is a state, as the ministry has shown these needs. So just a little bit here's the focus on the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72042	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Comparic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would correct one of your sentences which is, you said immediately in the introduction, which is that the encouraging housing didn't stop. According to the information I have, and I have good information since autumn last year, so state incentives don't pay off. And state incentives don't pay off because the Ministry of Finance and APN can't figure out who's supposed to be doing it. So this law didn't solve it either. And I'm only interested in when will the payment of government incentives begin? I have concrete information. The city of Rijeka is waiting, i.e. in the city of Rijeka APOS is waiting, so with 2 competitions because you in the country cannot agree. So you have to solve problems, not create problems for local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72044	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Secretary of State Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72045	Thank you very much for the specific question. So we solve the problem, but that's not a problem that can be solved overnight. So it's in progress, and there's going to be a solution soon. It's in progress, we're taking care, we're talking. So there's been a problem after 17 years of law enforcement and getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72046	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72047	Well, secretary, I don't see where you said that, where you noticed this debate was going the wrong way. Yes, I have said since 2001 that this law has had significant effects. However, this amendment to the law simply does not have any statistical indicators. And you can't have the fiscal capacity of a financial example of Drniš which has been declared developed, and we don't have a population of 70% less than before the Homeland War, you can't observe that area through the same law, in the same way. And if we encourage something, you say according to the needs of people, means professional, deficiting professions. So as it's going to be, for example, a municipal court in Sinj gasse, 60, 70 people worked there. He's going to Split. Of course these people are going to be looking for an apartment in Split now is not that and so many institutions. How will we demand if we... in a particular area of the Sinj region, the Trillic region and now we have no water supply solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how we're going to think about it, and these are the villages that are numerous, that have everything but certain, we can't, so you don't have any demographic criteria. Time has passed since 2001 and those years when it was apartment building. So we don't have demographic measures here, we don't have social measures, and that's two of the most important things right now. In addition to what you have raised the price by following the trend of what is happening in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, in larger cities such as Split, Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek di are bigger cities and where there is a greater interest in buying real estate. So we don't have one wheel here. But this triba talk seriously and this law needs to be seriously proposed, not just an increase in the price per metre of the square maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72048	State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72049	We still don't understand each other. So what can this law still suggest? I said, we're going towards a minimum fee even if we agree in the government and give apartments free of charge to use in deficits in areas with a weaker index of development. Is that Drnish, is that the Chetino landscape? All they have to do is answer. That little effort needs to be made by the local administration, nothing more. The law provides a framework in cooperation with the local administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72050	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn as an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. We have been discussing the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Social Encouragement and, as far as I can see, numerous MPs through this law are trying to resolve everything or try to raise awareness of the demographic restoration of Croatia through one Law on Social Encouragement Stanosing, which is simply not possible and does not want to see a series of other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements when it comes to demographic renewal, and in particular it is not taken into account that there are other laws that solve housing problems in Croatia. So I support this project that started 17 years ago because I think it has achieved its effect, which is to keep the price of apartments that talk about social access and the social component on the one hand and on the other side talking about more favourable credit conditions than commercial loans. And in that part, I support POS, but before I say anything else about POS, I want to say that there are other measures. So it's been there since 2011. The State Guarantee Act and subsidisation of housing loans that had changed something last year, no longer had a state guarantee but were given some new improvements. In what context, in particular, there is no Mr. Bulj or all those who talk about the care of the state that with favourable means of subsidising, I would also say housing where there are no more large housing units, so in this law, which missed the prominent co-financed possibility of building family houses. So this is very important because it is difficult to expect that in some small units of local self-government to access the construction of several housing units and for the reason that the tradition and lifestyle in these small places such that citizens prefer to finance the renovation or construction of entirely new small family houses and for this there are extremely favourable conditions which are in the Law on subsidisation of housing loans. And the third thing that is not mentioned, which I think is phenomenal and at the time of the SDP government is then the Ministry of Finance that normally cares about the House Savings Act, which I think is not good at, it should return it to this ministry, it would be good to continue subsidising housing savings. Because living savings combined with this law enables very, very favourable loans for walking and resolving the housing issue. There is not a single project in Croatia, and I think in Central Europe, especially in these countries of Austria, the Czech Republic, etc., where a measure has been successful, such as a project of housing savings that we said in a certain way in 2012, in 2013 I would say rather reduce state subsidies which did not contribute to this kind of housing savings and through housing savings through housing savings to build apartments. The measure, however, gave the lowest interest rate on any credit in the country. Now that I'm going back to this Encouragement Building Act, then I don't agree there's any analytical data here. The most important data has been set here, which is that since 2001, up to now in Croatia, some 8035 apartments have been built to this extent. That's what the state invested about a billion and 75 million kunas for. So when you calculate it, it's per apartment of 135 thousand kuna. Now of the 17 years 8 thousand, it's about 500, 600 apartments a year are built on the basis of POS, it's a very large number of apartments for which it takes and engagement from one side of the state, or its own for that of the competent agencies, and it takes the engagement of the local self-government unit, and clearly all of this goes through the commercial bank together. So when we were thinking about encouraging housing in Croatia, we came to another law which the government has now passed, it is the Law on subsidising housing loans, including those private family houses that I mentioned earlier, but which, in my opinion, solves the problem of housing in Croatia, or resolving the housing issue. Why? Because in this law, when you see the number of apartments sold and the state's funds invested, then in that law, where there is no need to engage or very small involvement of APN in relation to this law, there is no involvement of the local self-government unit, there is no ghettoisation because the POS wanted me to or wished not to admit it in a certain way a ghettoisation where a certain future customer of that apartment may not be satisfied with the location and cannot choose but is simply focused where the local self-government unit determines that this apartment is being built in POS. In this House Loan Subsidisation Act, the customer chooses his own location, there is no involvement of local self-government units, and by apartment, the unit is a smaller subsidy. So so far, the experience that shows somewhere around 4000 apartments sold in the system has been set aside by about 100,000 kunas around the state's apartment, here 135 thousand kunas without the involvement of a unit of local self-government. Therefore, when we talk about state measures aimed at housing, I will not say about care, but about the state's housing policy there are a number of measures. This is the measure, therefore, to encourage a good housing that needs to be continued, especially where the local self-government unit is showing its interest, so it should continue. It should continue with the House Loan Subsidisation Act, which is a great law to continue with. He saw you get an extremely great success and this should continue, even by me and increase the funds in him. And the third measure, which I think is also very important, is clear that in this law we must not forget in any way because of these rural areas of Croatia and the possibility of subsidising family homes for all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are interested and the third measure must be subsidising housing savings. So neither of these three laws should be seen separately, they should be watched together, and the state in this sense should address the housing policy of those three laws. And the fourth is to find ways through renting apartments, especially if, for example, as we know, there are a large number of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia that may not go for sale to those citizens who can't get into credit lines because they may not be employed at a certain time because they don't even want to, but also through the lease, then the possibility of resolving the housing issue of part of the population of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I support this law, it is a continuation of the policy of encouraging housing in Croatia. Local self-government units that have the capacity and opportunity to enter into this law should be encouraged to enter into the realisation of encouraging housing. And I say not to observe it separately but to observe it at the rate of other laws that define housing policy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72052	Thank you, too. First replica, Mrs. Comparic Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I agree with you that you should be encouraged to therefore units of local self-government that have capacity for this, where it has an interest to build on the POS system. But since you're also the president of the ruling club, I'm going to repeat what I told the secretary of state, so you're affecting it. So since autumn 2017 there has been no payment, incentives for POS because in the country two institutions, the ministry and APN cannot agree who will do this. So there are competitions in units of local self-government that can't go outside, has interest, citizens waiting for reasons why the two institutions can't agree on us. It's one of my remarks and appeal to you as president, as a club of ruling appeals to the Secretary-General. Secondly, this law, which is set before us, provides for a special programme for the care of civil and public servants. We need local self-government units to enable local self-government units to do so in the same model. So there's no difference between an official who's a civil servant and one who's at unit level of local self-government. Here I am asking you to take advantage of your influence and therefore influence the Secretary-General to get this into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72054	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the secretary of state who's already told you that we're dealing with the backlog of state incentives in the POS project. I don't see why that should be a problem, I'm not even familiar with it, but now that you've pointed it out, I can see one and the other minister, but next to here, the secretary of state doesn't believe there's a need for additional engagement. I agree with you, this second part that you mentioned, although here I was the head of the unit of local self-government and in 2002 I started in POS and in my area when the building POS was just one of those apartments that we worked for citizens who were interested was owned by a local self-government unit and was given to use a doctor who was then in that health home. So in the existing POS when the local self-government unit, whether this project was, whether this project that has now worked or this one that will now APN, APN itself will do so, I guess in the land, owned by the local self-government unit or otherwise, to allow the project to go the same way as APN goes the unit of local self-government. But that's what the secretary of state will clearly answer. Although I'm telling you, I don't see any reason, and now that the local self-government unit isn't going to go into that project that part of it is, that a certain number of apartments don't provide, and instead of paying for the end-user of the apartment, and the obligation doesn't subdue the units of local self-government and thus retain it in its possession and then it can dispose of them whenever it wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72056	Thank you very much. Mr. Shucker, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72057	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, 2001, when this law was passed, had two clear goals. One is to encourage housing, so to encourage the construction sector and, on the other hand, to make it easier for young families to reach the apartment. And I remember my debate ever since and all these years, which is that through this POS and the stimulating housing lending must be equalized by family houses, a family house. Because today we are facing everyone, with a problem that young people leave above all rural areas where family homes are. You come to any city in Croatia, I don't count Zagreb, Osijek and Rijeka, so you will see how many family houses are sold on the main streets. So it's something that we simply need to be with this all together, focus if we want to help young families. Because definitely no matter what anyone says about POS where the interests of local self-government units are at stake, not local administrations and states have achieved good results. And there's no POS case I think was a bad result, where it was a common interest. The local self-government unit recognized the problem, it is with the resources the state has, the local self-government unit has the land, the land is equipped with infrastructure and therefore the projects are going. However, what is very important in obtaining credit under the same conditions if a young couple want to expand, upgrade the family home to have the same treatment as for both the municipal contribution and the loan. And as for the encouraging housing savings, I as Minister of Finance have this other story, many unfortunately who had a very fat wallet saved exclusively because of getting good interest, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72058	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I agree, that's what I was saying about family homes, that, they must have status and be equalizing in access to subsidies and favourable loans, such as apartments. And there you are. As far as this law is concerned, we have testified that POS, which I don't know whether was mentioned today, for some time I wasn't in the assembly, then had one serious criticism, which is that the quality of the construction precisely because of the ethlon price was generally not satisfactory and there was then the responsibility of the state to follow the quality of POS through the supervisory authority. So there have been cases where construction in POS was not at the level of the necessary quality of housing building and there have been problems at a number of locations in Croatia, not to list them now, this may later be discussed with the new law that follows, the amendments and additions to the Law on Renting Apartments. I see in this law a greater role of this law, and I will say this later on, and as far as housing savings are concerned, I know your approach and access to the finance minister and you are right that housing meant actually saving to increase your amount to a jury account and not because of investment in apartments, any equipment, any building of apartments, which is why it was intended, so I claimed, you know well, and you participated in that, that it was necessary to make control mechanisms to make such a way of saving absolutely discouraged, not to say sanctioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72060	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72061	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's what I'd like in my debate to look back on what went on throughout the entire morning in a number of debates about how this law is not social. I would like to say that this law should not be treated as a social law because it is neither adopted nor passed, when it was first passed, passed as a social law, but as the law now said, which will encourage the construction of apartments in this way, encourage the construction of apartments in such a way, encourage construction and actually investment. What I would like to say is that this law has a social element in it, and I would also like to stress that it is actually a socially stimulating housing primarily measures where public funds are used, state resources are being processed with funds or with a role in land and municipal equipment by units of local self-government in order to build housing facilities that will be more favourable than those on the market and as regards the cost of housing and as regards lending, can be purchased by our citizens, primarily by young families, so that they come into possession of their own apartment but also enables renting such apartments. In the previous implementation of POS, it is evident that citizens, especially young families, were interested in resolving their housing issues precisely through this programme and that especially in Zagreb and other major cities, there was a great interest in apartments built through POS. I believe that, in addition to all of these, the amendments in this bill of law which are part of the technical nature, but the other part of it is of a contentable nature, I believe that it is very important to change the possibility of renting apartments by public officials and tenants, which has not been the case so far. It is precisely this measure that is good because we are all aware of the situation that we have in areas that are mostly less populated and as regards the insurance of a doctor and as regards the insurance of teacher staff, where there are many times the problem and in the right to resolve the housing issue of people who should come to work in this area and I believe that this way, however, they will allow these people to come, work in these areas if not with their families, and then, yes, they come and have secured housing during the work week. I also believe that it is important that the paper introduced by this law introduces obligations for those non-profit legal persons set up by a local or regional self-government unit, to establish a reserve fund from which the funds should be made possible and to ensure that they are built up to the full, final stage, in those cases where individual participants have not implemented their part of the commitment and thus not provided all the necessary funds to complete the housing building. This is certainly good because it ensures the completion of the residential construction of the intended facility within the specified time limit and that the facility is also put into operation within these deadlines which, of course, contributes and the safety of those who need to enter those apartments to move in within the planned time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72062	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72063	My colleague Jelkovac, you've touched a segment here, which is why it's actually an amendment to this law. The first is the one that defines simply the legislative change with which the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to no longer having 5% on construction land at the moment of entry into the EU but is 25%, so VAT is paid as well as on everything else and therefore it was necessary to raise the limited price. But what this law does to me, it just opens up space, and that's you, I'm going to say it the way they are. They're your human residences. So, to offer a certain profile of experts, working in public services the opportunity to come to a settlement of the housing issue in this way. It is, therefore, the expansion of what was actually the purpose of POS. The purpose of POS was quite clear. To young people who have a long credit period ahead of them and encourage housing, at the moment when credit eruptions occurred in the Republic of Croatia, let's be honest. At that time, premises and the possibility of lending were easily opened in the Republic of Croatia and should not simply be launched on the one hand, economic activity due to, and nothing can thus generate economic growth as a building and, on the other hand, encourage young people to come to a settlement of the housing issue. The next phase was inclusion, although it was a great deal of trouble to do so, including the possibility of obtaining credit for the same way to upgrade family homes. And this is the third process now because definitely we in the Republic of Croatia from all segments of the public service are left with no experts and one of the reasons is that, but it should also be possible for the units of local self-government to allow certain personnel that they want to retain, which they drag into their premises... I'll tell you honestly, at the Tax Administration in Vrbovac, it's a 20-year-old and a few more miles from Zagreb, you couldn't get a dipl. an economist or a lawyer because no one from Zagreb wanted to travel there. But if you solve his housing issues there, and I don't want to speak any further, you're going to be able to do that, you're actually going to let him handle the housing issues. You will be able to solve a very important human problem in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72064	Time. Answer. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72065	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, that's why I said that I thought it was one of the most important newspapers in this proposal to amend the law. Here, I'm a kid teacher who moved from one field school to another 50 years ago and I know what that means. So, today, we have this really big problem that at rural schools in smaller villages, it's hard to find a frame that will come and work. And for a young man, especially someone who doesn't have a family, that wouldn't be such a problem if we provided him with housing for at least the part of the week that's a week's work. It's also a big problem with doctors who exist today, where we're really out of doctors in the small environments. And I think that's why this is the main measure that will produce positive effects in these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72066	Thank you, too. Mrs. Comparic Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that we're slowly reaching consensus as to the expansion... A unit of local self-government, and I'm glad to hear that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we recognize the problem, and we agree it should be solved. As for that other part that I've been repeating here for the third time, here I understand that some of them are not familiar with the situation that is currently ruling on the ground, so there's been a situation that has occurred to you that the Varazdin Agency... She hasn't finished any apartments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was still due money and at that point, the ministry was monitoring the APN. After that surveillance, they actually brought a solution, budget surveillance, okay. Therefore, they have reached a solution that the APN cannot, on any basis, pay funds to agencies owned by local self-government units. So, what I told the secretary of state here was, let's find an urgent solution whether it will be a regulation that will give APN all the necessary permits or will now be done by the ministry – anyway. But it's unacceptable that the competitions from the fall last year are currently standing and that we can't find a solution. Here, that was my appeal. The same for the purpose of improving this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72068	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72069	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here you are, dear colleague, I understand the problem you're talking about and the problem you've pointed out on the third occasion, but I think the Secretary of State has been manifest in this regard. It's an individual particular problem and I believe that he will soon be resolved. What I was also talking about, that it is positive that this bill introduces a commitment for non-profit legal persons who, as investors, will participate in POS, ensure from the resources of local self-government units that will then be possible in exceptional situations that can happen in fact, to complete the financing of completion within the deadlines of these housing buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72070	Thank you, too. Mr. Josip Boric, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72071	Thank you very much. So here's something to say about the bill. I think we've all concluded more or less that the changes are good and that they're going in a positive direction. We have often heard here in a former term that this is always a new possibility, any bill, so I also see this as another possibility that young families, those who do not have first real estate, have their own apartment, will have a kind of demographic impact to improve these situations, especially in the Republic of Croatia. What do I see here as a problem? The fact is that the cheaper apartment, the cheaper credit compared to the market looks like a product that is not very good in terms of the market, i.e. those who are interested in doing something commercially i.e. that what they sell may be more rewarding to them. And now it is certain that this is one competition precisely for many who deal with housing in the private sector, and of course there is obviously always certain poisonings or different interpretations of interest. It's a good thing the state is helping, and I'm sure this isn't just one program. We've seen and heard from colleagues, Bačić, many others. Last year, too, we took part in a discussion about subsidizing housing loans which, in all those steps, through this Law, we can still recognize as an unknown or something that may be creating a problem. So we all know how to run the POS program by local self-government. I, for example, come from rural space, as head of the municipality cannot precisely identify what is the greatest or smallest level of interest to implement the POS programme. Are we going to meet the need with 3 apartments or one small building, or are we going to do it with 2 or is it going to be 20 or 30 apartments? Perhaps it would be good for these things to be prescribed in some way that the chiefs themselves, most of whom may depend, and the mayors themselves, are the program. Because if they're not interested, that program certainly doesn't have anything. They're the ones who kind of run the whole situation by looking at the situation on the ground they have. The first survey can be somewhat demotive and immediately give up the whole story. Maybe it's not just the land that we have or don't have, mostly municipalities have a certain level or amount of land, it's a question for me too, and it might be unclear for you to tell me, so what about land owned by the state, is it possible to include it, given that we have a parallel and discussion of the Law on State Property and a way of making available state property, whether there are moments that we can contribute to this law but also those other contributions that this programme develops further and cheaper perhaps, and that we try to motivate perhaps mayors, mayors, especially in rural areas, we see by statistics that they are mostly more urban environments because they simply have more inhabitants and more needs for housing, and that we can see whether there's something else we can be better prescribed to make it clearer for everyone because I say, without initiative on the ground, the program simply doesn't exist. While this second subsidisation program depends on the individual who wants it, the state has now given him the opportunity to solve it either through the reconstruction of a collapsed building or through the purchase of an apartment or through the purchase of a house or whatever it takes, then it will give him so much and it will somehow go cheaper than going to classical commercial care, i.e. housing care. I think that in these steps I think that more or less everything is worked out, you secretary of state were the head of APN, we see that in these few steps from the poll to this legal interest and then the provision of land, the lists of championships, etc., every step may disturb us a little bit to see what we can do to improve that. Because what happens to us on the championship list? There's a conflict. If, for example, the number of apartments is smaller than those who are interested or why he's got it, why didn't I get it, etc., because when it starts, when they're all out, there are additional requirements that appear later. I say, sometimes uninformedness can negatively affect the whole perception of the story of stimulating housing. Everything else is sort of a normal step away from contracting, land transfer and everything else so I think that maybe as one incentive, some kind of approach to local self-government, I don't know if it's still done regularly or if it's still up to every local self-government leader, whether he's going to do something or not, but they too find it hard to figure out when it's kind of worth it if you only have 3 or 4 interested in, say, in the municipality where I live and 1200 inhabitants, so you're going to give it land, so you're going to make a great procedure for what we've done with it. That's one question that you either encourage and you go that way or it stops you and you say here we have a market or some other model, so you go over there. Here's one question, so I hope you'll answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72072	We have two replicas, the first Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72073	Thank you very much. Col. Boric, you have raised a few questions of life that simply this law should give an answer for the reason that at the moment it started with POS and today's situation is heaven and country, then a housing loan without 7, 8.9% of the interest rate you couldn't even get into madness. Why? Because it was a time of high interest rates, Croatia had the status it is, today is a time of historically low interest rates and today are interest rates on housing loans much less. But what we definitely do at this point, given the situation that we unfortunately have that young people are leaving us, we need different programs. One is POS, which takes place in urban areas and in the smaller urban environments, you have well asked the question as the head of one of such smaller local self-government units, as well as how to recognize what you really need. And the second is stimulating housing lending that enables the restoration and expansion of family homes. And I think that even today for some of these political reasons in many debates, we haven't had it at all and I don't think it's exactly a question that no matter what, and we've installed it, I think, about the possibility of crediting the expansion of these family houses, but I think it's simply a topic when we talk about both Slavonia and Banovina and Kordun and Lica and Dalmatian Zagora, which simply imposes on us as some sort of normal thing because why build a building of 5, 6 or 10 apartments in a collective apartment building and at the same time you have 15 or 20 empty houses that are being renovated with little money and which can satisfy even more quality housing needs of young people who are taught to live in individual housing and not in collective housing where this so-called housing. collective housing, where there are more housing units.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72074	Answer, here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72075	A fellow Shuker, so the fact is this is the cheapest fixed interest loan, the longest maturity of 30 years plus years of waiting and the cheapest square residential, that's for sure, it's not at all controversial. And you'd probably be interested in it in rural space, I'm just saying, it's a matter of information, because if we look at the claims for these 100 loans that are subsidized, you'll see that they're all more or less, again from urban backgrounds. The primary lack of information of young families in rural areas. We don't have good campaigns, where we explain to these young people what their rights are. They're not all on a daily basis probably, but the question is, when they start, let's say in the rural environment you have one or no bank, you have a chance to get that loan in one or no business, so you have to go to the first next, etc. so there are 10 other examples of unsolved property and everything else. And then, of course, young people give up. In my opinion, maybe a little more information, maybe a little better this, prepared information to encourage the mayors and mayors, to maybe go into such programs, but to know for themselves what they bear in terms of the cost of profit and what it is that gauges within which we can in the I don't know, the area I say my municipalities of 1,000 inhabitants how much building they make, since that when I do the survey I'm going to get maybe 5 interested, no. When we start building, there might be 15 more coming. But the question is, how much cost-effectiveness does it then appear in all of this, since we have to give... Land, we have to secure certain connections and all the other donations and, of course, what does it get? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, maybe one explanation of yours, so let me say it, and we're better educated so that we know what better to do than the programs we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72076	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72077	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Boric, so I can't agree with you in that part, when you say it's a matter of goodwill of the local self-government unit, or the leader. You and yourself are the head of the local self-government unit, and you know how many municipalities and cities have been burdened by various new regulations, rules, all that we have to worry about. And multiple times our budgets are set in 90%. We need to isolate, so I don't tell you everything we have to isolate. I think that every unit leader of local self-government especially in rural areas would like to have an encouraging apartment, to keep young people in their area. Because young people leave the most because they have no job and no housing arrangements. Of course there's a lot that can be done about work, that they stay, but as far as this issue of housing is concerned, I think we can all do a lot more together. First of all, this is a program of stimulating housing and I think it's very good and there are very many interested ones, first of all it needs to be clear, for less environments to bring regulations and more money to smaller environments, and less for bigger cities, because our trend is for these young people to go to cities. If they're not going abroad, they're going to the cities. But maybe there's a common policy to be made here, but it's possible that maybe the state in that business is reducing VAT? Could the state intervene in a way that loans are not loans of 3.4 or 5% interest, but rather 1%. And you know for yourself, that the environmental fund has an energy efficiency fund HBOR gives 1% I think that 1 or 1.5% interest. Is there anything in this sense that can be done to help local self - government units to make these apartments cheaper and then more accessible to young families?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72078	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72079	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelac here, we agree that in all these steps, there may be another moment where something could benefit the citizens and, of course, it is here at the secretary of state, in the Government to recognize those moments. I'm just saying, I still think this depends on local self-government leaders and their interest. Those who want to push hard, of course, depends, yes, because they assess what it says in the budget or what it will collect to be able to do, but assess the total cost of the entire programme, whether it enters it or not, of course. And that way, I think maybe, with perhaps better information, it would also encourage some, in rural areas, to engage in such programs, if we know what awaits us at the end of that whole story. Because personally, as you said, this is a good program, 8000 apartments, 500 apartments a year, not a small number of apartments, to take care of those who need it, of singles, of families with 2 members, 4 members, etc. with certain rules, but I say with many other measures, I think this is a good way, to act on, to allow young people to stay on the premises they live in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72080	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72081	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Uhlir, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartmentry and the provisions of this law are positive and welcome, such as a clearer definition of the etalnic price of construction, such as the launch of a programme, which contributes to retaining and attracting deficitary interests mainly in these underdeveloped areas of Croatia, which gives him a small but demographic and social note. The aim of POS apartments is to enable our citizens to resolve their housing issues, under more favourable conditions than those on the market, but given the experience so far, we need to and ask ourselves, if that is always the case. From Osijek, which is where I come from, where young people are just living care, imposing as one of the reasons why they're moving out, happened exactly the opposite. In fact, within the social potential of housing, an object was built in Vukovar Street today and was mentioned from 38 apartments. The price of squares was slightly less than 1100 euros, which was definitely not a price lower than the market price... On the contrary, it was bigger and today you can find apartments that are far below that price on the ads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this resulted in the sale of only 14 apartments, and these others were leased, and the same lease was at least equal to the rent of apartments that could be found in the city of Osijek. We have also brought about an absurd situation if we repeat the basic objective of POS housing, which is to enable the resolution of the housing issue under conditions much more favourable than marketable ones. Of course, this criticism does not go in the final, but in the majority of the ministry goes to the city of Osijek, which came out of the project itself and was not willing to give adequate land, which automatically increased the price. It did not wish to give up either the municipal part, the municipal fee or the municipal contribution, or the communal field itself for construction, which would greatly lower the price and meet what POS apartments also aim to make the price far lower than that market. That is why I believe that this partnership relationship between the ministry and the units of local self-government needs to be further developed. Their active participation should be encouraged, in ensuring a more favourable housing solution for citizens right through means giving or assigning land and liberating communal contributions, reducing fees, because I am sure that they are in order not to move citizens mainly from our Slavonia. But as is evident from this example that I have stated that individuals in local self-government are just avoiding their responsibility, and I believe that a particular model should certainly be found in order to not force them to, but... to participate in this because, otherwise, POS flats because of their high prices in most areas of beautiful ours loses their meaning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72082	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72083	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague. I'm glad you're on to my debate. You've just said the essence of what I've been talking about and why we won't support changing this law. The fact is that you come from an environment where apartments are in nature cheaper than apartments built by POS, you're in power, you have the possibility and project of Slavonia and the possibility of intervention, to intervene, to make it a part of the law so that it can be applied in the territory of the entire Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72084	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Gordan Maras. An individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72085	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this law we have to look at essentially what it was once intended for POS's apartments to be, that is, to ensure what we've done in the past 15, 16 years, so it's a project that started in 2001, meaning 17 even years, where we are today and in which direction we're going. My disappointment, especially in the past 2 years with this project, is that, for example, in 2017, only 2 hundred 62 apartments were moved in and are currently under construction or at the end of construction between 300 and 400. How little and how few cities of local administrations and self-government use it says that the law is not good and that it needs to be changed in a way that is of greater benefit both to local self-government units and to our citizens. The dwellings were for example last year in Split, Gospić, Umag and Mali Losinj. So four units of local self-government. And they are also built in Fažana, Metkovic, Punta, Sibenik, Koprivnica and Varazdin. Six more. So a total of 10 units are affected and construction is planned in the next 10 years. So 20 units out of the 5 hundred we have in the Republic of Croatia. Now you tell me if it's OK, whether the law is good, whether these changes that go in order to adjust the price, or whether it allows for a higher price of squares, means somewhere at 1200 euros a month, will help more units to build it and that our more citizens eventually feel some benefit. Because what's the point of this law right now if the price is going to be, for example, here's where a colleague from Osijek says there's 1,000 and some euros and you're going to be able to buy an apartment on the market for 800, 900 euros in that same city. So it's lost its full meaning, and in one major part of Croatia, I'm not talking about maybe where it still has some effect are cities in Dalmatia, which due to the high cost of land and the tightness of space, or the inability to build more, for example, Split or Dubrovnik or Sibenik, where there could possibly be something else built. But in Zagreb a thousand hundred, you have two hundred euros of apartments on the market and no POS. In Osijek, we saw that they were even cheaper than POS. So you're looking for a solution from the state, and the ministry doesn't now push another 100 euros for the price of land per square, but to find a solution for our people to get 800, 900 euros square maximum, not 1200, or those that are in these criteria that meet in the contest. And another thing, there is no control of what happens in some situations where people in these areas are looking for such apartments, I said what cities are, for example, in Split, when people who are in a difficult situation, social cases or defenders who have certain needs for housing care or people who don't have a job and don't have their own apartment, and when there's a big rush, it's not rare, this is a example in the case of Split, that people buy apartment and sell it and earn it 50 thousand euros if they don't know, about a 70-80 square apartment. Such things should be prevented. These aren't apartments that are meant to profit from them, but that people solve their housing issues. And then there's the question of why there's no control, which is why it's being disabled, and that's why we don't try to put a little order on the whole market. So what I'm saying at the beginning, and now I insist on it, is not going to be the price of the apartment higher than, which is why we wouldn't determine that, for example, we can make these apartments not pay VAT or something. So let's cut the price 25%. So, some proposal can be made that will lead to it not to cost 1200 euros, but to be 800 or 900 euros. That's the point of the law. And then we won't have, for example, so far I don't know, 8500 apartments have been built, and last year 254 or 260. Well, you can see that. So if we were to divide just mathematically for 16-17 years, that's an average of 500-600 apartments. It's twice as much as it used to be, and I'm sure there's no reason why now all of a sudden people have taken care of each other and have a place to live and no tenants. So, on the other hand, the success of the Law does not guarantee what is proposed here and I think that it should go exactly the other way and we should think in the government instead of beating someone another 100 euros more per square because of the land price, trying to ensure people have a cheaper square and that they can buy it cheaper and then see it next year in some analysis to build more, to make people move more and thus improve the standard of our fellow citizens. As far as this part of the deficiting profession is concerned, especially in smaller areas, I support it and I think that we, as far as sustainability and certain cities, counties and certain large parts of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, are really undermining it and we don't think too much about it as a state, and I think that's not a bad approach, because let's say, when we see a guy who's devastated, where people go unfortunately, a big and beautiful part of our country, but then it all comes down in the end whether Darko Milinović gets into Plitvice or not. So that's not the demographic policy the state should be leading and then the biggest problem... Imagine that paradox, Mr. Bacic. We are discussing for 3 days whether Darko Milinovic managed to put his director on Plitvices, and we are not discussing at all the problem that thousands of Personals are leaving because they have no conditions there for work or for life. And I'd like that to change, too. Let's talk more about these people who need help instead of Darka Milinovic. Did he put someone there from the personal HDZ or HEP administration? He says, the great success of the Mrs. HDZ – they put their man in the HEP administration. Is this demographic policy, is it something that the public should even discuss in this way and give it a commendation? Miss HDZ thinks it's to brag. If they had managed to get their man in the management of HEP and he said, they had failed to get him because Plenkovic had got his islander. So there is this variant that dominates the HDZ instead of thinking about how people from the devastation area go to the Republic of Croatia, secure work and home, they are thinking about whether they will be the islander of Plenkovic or Licanin of Milinovic in HEP. And then it's still taken as a decimal, here's the higher, we did it, that's it, that's good. That's what I've just said and I've gone a little bit off topic, but you'll understand, Mr. Vice President, that in essence, these are topics that unfortunately make people go and the Republic of Croatia and I've had to expand it a little bit to strengthen it once again, and in order to just point out problems that unfortunately our people in the government don't solve, but rather deal with side things, i.e. small lobbying that ultimately result only by leaving Milinović in Lica, which you believe me, no one is interested in whether he's the president of the HDZ in person or not, and this is about tens of thousands of people in the Republic who don't have their home and are leaving from the Republic and these are the topics that should be dominated there. I'm sorry our people in the government don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72086	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72087	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Maras, so we can't point the blade to this ministry and according to this bill, part of the responsibility is definitely going to local leaders who in this case Osijek, whom you mentioned, has just withdrawn from the project itself, which raised the price of the apartment by several hundred euros, and here is the case that this project took place at the moment when you were in power in the country, and in Osijek was also your mayor in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72088	You, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72089	It's not a blade, it's a help. I want to help. Dude, don't look at all the opposition suggestions and suggestions as a blade. You're here now relatively frisky, but here's a fellow Shucker who's been sitting here for a long time in this House, he knows that I especially like to make a constructive proposal and on that side this wasn't a blade. So we'll agree, and math is one of the most exotic sciences and it doesn't lie. If he says 260 in one year and 8,000 that's twice the average, then something's wrong. When the law was conceived in 2000-2003, 2004, when the opposition was SDP, it was a hit measure at the time, people bought it, especially until that moment, until there was a crisis on the real estate market, then the prices of apartments were high. We have to do something to make it more competitive and that's the intensity of my proposal. And once again I say, so it doesn't matter whether it's a member of the administration, or whether it's important, but specifically, demographics, it doesn't matter if it's a member of the management of the personal HDZ or HDZ from the island of Hvar, where Plenkovic is from. It's important for demographics to have a 800-euro square. Please don't do this again, I ask you on behalf of the citizens who are watching us, don't put people in it, that they have to talk, whether Milinovic did it or not. Let's talk about having some in... suggests that the square of the apartment be 800, 900 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we need to talk about here. Let's talk about protecting those people who are in the cold and where, once again, the secretary of state without any compassion has passed by those people, hasn't spoken to them a word, that's what we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72090	Mrs Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72091	Dear Vice President, and my colleague Maras, I would like to remind you, although you have been sitting here much longer, of the measure that the former governments have carried out, apro pro, mentioned by our colleague Darko Milinovic, that the former governments have implemented measures to encourage young families in construction materials to build family houses. So, before and now, there is malice, that these measures are also used in these counties as well as here, but especially in these counties, where there are a lot fewer persons and a lot fewer populations. When you were talking about buying business apartments, in order to resell, that the first contracts that were made were without clauses on the deadlines for non-aliening these and such apartments, so that later contracts that took place with customers contained exactly those clauses where those persons could not buy and immediately resell apartments, but they had to and had to keep these apartments, 5 and more years of ownership, so that only after that could they possibly sell those apartments. So it was in the first cases, actually possibilities and abuse, but later it tried to prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72092	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72093	Thank you very much. It tried, but it didn't stop, here I invite you to look at the case in the Split settlement of Kila where there are several such cases of reselling and essentially playing this measure, the way it shouldn't be. And as for the measures before, the measure was like this or some less, some more successful, but the results were defeating. The results are devastating, unfortunately, we see that some of our counties, regions, are devastated. Well, that's what your colleague Strmoth was talking about, too, and the man couldn't watch it anymore. I even understand that. He couldn't watch it anymore, because he was also put in that position as a scientist that he had to deal with trivial things, such as this, whether it's from a personal or a Hvar HDZ or a new Zagreb, and not about whether it's right or wrong. And it's not funny, it's not funny, Mr. Vice President, it's unfortunately not funny because our country is being empty. "Yes, but I see you smiling, and you and Shucker smile while our country is empty. [[Mr. Maras, I didn't even hear what you said, I talked.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72094	Okay, but let's not with that demagogy, we talked Mr. Shucker and I, and you're not at all... You weren't even involved in our laugh. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It didn't matter, but you can go on, you have more time, there's time, you have more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72095	Thank you very much, I said what I had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72096	Thank you very much. We have another replica, Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72097	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras was deeply touched by your emotional appearance when you were protecting protected tenants who were here in the icy wind protesting a little bit, but I was wondering where your emotions were, when you were the director of Whitehair, which I already mentioned to you three times, which was twice self- on fire, which is a strange word for you. What does self-ignition mean? Well, there's self-ignition, one substance to be put on, so under the influence of the sun, it just burns. But it's clear to me that she's won twice, but has she been insured once? I'm interested in that. Which minister was the police at the time? Did the inspectorate's findings determine the cause of the incendiary or self-ignition? If one of the ministers found a worker threw the butts in the trash can and they were fighting some buildings, buildings, warehouses. What did this minister of yours say at the time? How many people had to move out who worked in Whitelight out there or I don't know where. Do you feel the emotion of empathy, the feeling of any kind about these people you stand for, the care of the directors of the Whites? Ministers of the economy of entrepreneurship, I don't know what it's all about. The theme is whether to trust Mr. Maras [[Let's not get out of the topic, please.]] Thank you. [[Let's not get out of the topic.]] I said the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72098	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72099	Thank you very much. Since the agenda is whether to trust Culey to Mr. Maras, I will now respond to his dilemma. Well, look, Mr. Culey, you can go to Ogulin and talk to the people who worked there, so they'll give you an answer, and the last election in Ogulin won the SDP mayoral candidate. On the other hand, just burning it up was the last time I was surprised and you still haven't been able to convince me that the object could just be set on fire, on its own. And I haven't been there in years. I left Belarus at the end of 2002, there. And now you're talking that's who I'm talking about now what would have mattered a lot more if Djuro Djakovic had failed or now he was much weaker than he was because you didn't fix the tanks well in 1989. Same correlation, no but it's the same correlation [[Let's not get out of the topic either, please.]] So this Burning Whiteness thing is the same as whether Stevo fixed the tanks well in 1989 in Djura Djakovic, here he is. [[Intruder Radin: No, the correlation is the same but the themes are both wrong.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72100	I won't give anything, I'm sorry, Mr. Culey, but I won't give it to you, I won't, you can contact the Constitution Committee, but I won't give any damage to the Rules of Procedure here because I'd have to conclude that you hurt both of them. Let's move on, Mr. Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72101	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this vivid debate, it's hard to continue to discuss a subject that was just a moment ago, but let's remember that we discussed the POS law. A lot has already been said about the so far implementation of socially stimulating housing we have had a significant deviation in the price of new apartments in the POS system compared to apartments outside the POS programme and that was good, that was so so far. In this programme since 2001, we have said about 8030 apartments worth 4 billion and some kunas from which the state invested close to a billion and 100 million. And that was okay. Of course, all these low prices stemmed from the engagements of local self-government units in the way that she donated land, so there were infrastructures and other benefits found there, all in order to take care of young families in her area, which was also good. I won't talk much about this law but it's all said, but I'll say some of my observations so please Mr. Uhlir to listen here for a while now. So I would like to welcome this provision where the possibility is introduced in Article 31 to build apartments for rent owned by APN to address the housing problems of military persons, police, public and social officials and tenants, so renting for a certain period of time, is good. Furthermore, I would suggest that, in addition to the APN unit of local self-government, I think Mr Bačić spoke about it, but I would be a little more decident and clear, we suggest that, in addition to the APN unit of local self-government, therefore cities and municipalities can also participate in the construction of POS apartments under the same conditions, so under the same benefits as the APN and be the owners of parts of built apartments, not only for these categories which we have now spoken to doctors, professors but why not for aunts in private kindergarten or some other persons who are not public servants and furniture, and the municipalities are of particular interest and they want to keep them in this way or attract them to their territory. I don't think we have such a provision, and no one can explain to me if one small municipality has a need and has an application for six or seven or eight apartments, so why don't you buy two more investment municipalities to round up the whole, so I'm talking to these benefits that she would have in POS housing, so the same as the APN does. It is important to say that the difference in the price of POS apartments of those outside the POS in small municipalities is not such a big difference as in the urban environments in Zagreb and should take special note of the different criteria for these small local rural areas. When we talk about criteria, I'm still here to expand certain possibilities, so the possibility of involving a private investor who wants to invest in POS with the consent of JLS and APN to get involved in a smaller percentage of such apartments in the building because the ultimate interest is to build apartments, keep local residents in local self-government units, they will stay here, they will start a family and live here. So someone before me said that in those previous contracts, there was no deadline for the POS user to live in a new apartment but could sell it after he used these benefits related to the purchase of POS's apartment. So the goal is to build new apartments, move young people, give them security for starting a family and hire a local construction operation. You, Mr. Secretary of State, said this law wasn't social. Well, okay, I'd just like him to be in the rural environments as well as social, but also demographic and intelligent, and that he has a purpose to help those rural areas more precisely. And when it was said about the houses of the topic that fellow Shuker topic of rebuilding the purchased family houses. It is an extremely good story for rural areas, however, it should be said that subsidising housing loans is a good thing to buy apartments. However, there is a problem with the level of subsidisation of loans for family homes, for the construction of family homes, and there needs to be a special account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72102	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas, that's pleasant news. And the last one is Mrs Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72103	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm going to do the same even though it's already said a lot, but I'm going to look back at some of the essential features of this amendment to the law. In fact, what I certainly support is that these and these laws are really necessary and quality, and primarily because they can really help and it is very important for what purpose certain laws were passed and which is why this change is now in line with the needs of a time that is different and significantly different from those in 2000 and 2001. I always have, since I have worked in this business, always associate it with the same law on the sale of dwellings where there is a household law from which units of local self-government, and in particular cities still have the means to address both social issues and investment in infrastructure. This has actually given us the opportunity to spend these resources much more quality, and especially since by investing in social housing, we actually couldn't meet these other needs that the POS actually provides. So in any case encouraged housing is welcome in that sense. What is important is to highlight in these provisions of the law that a part of the funds is returned to local self-government units through encouraged housing. So in the first part, as it stands, and in the current law, contractors are paid, so credit to the bank, and in the second part, after the settlement of the debt to the bank, public and other funds belonging to the Republic of Croatia and to the units of local self-government. So this re-accumulates additional funds that can re-energize some new projects and programs, and in this way we actually have the continuity of a particular process. What's important is to say for these changes 20, 25% ethlonic, etc. In these conditions, there is no need to doubt at all why this is happening, so we know that in this way it actually enables a wider, larger number of units of local self-government to enter into such a thing, given that land prices, services, municipal equipment and everything else are different and thus services at the end and designing and beyond. That's why it's important that these ratios are increased and that they can all be found in certain parameters. The very price of the apartment's top value has so far been through APN somewhere around 1100 euros, and here's the example I'm witnessing, we actually had the example that here are now the last apartments, for example in the city of Zadar, and in the same way, some 1026 euros were built, which is significantly below the market price of the apartment that is economical, which other legal persons were selling. So here we see that both this part and that price of the apartment, so it was encouraging precisely for those who could not pay this value that is far more marketable. So we can also find reasons why it's good, and the interest rate was some in 2012 when it was, this is some 3.75. So then it was much more favourable than the interest rates of banks. What I would still refer to is this article, the amendment to Article 10a. and it was actually he existed in the previous law. But 10a. It refers to the formation and establishment of non-profit legal entities that are eligible for APN would also be established in local self-government units. I personally do not think that this is very good because these are the creation of parallel systems primarily in paragraph 4. where it is said that a non-profit legal person in the construction of dwellings operates through public funds and funds supplied on the capital market from business banks and other financial institutions, from the purchasers of apartments to other persons who, under the provisions of this law, can participate in the provision of funds for the construction of apartments. Namely, the non-profit legal entities themselves, I've had opportunities from the past, how those like funds and various agencies worked, so I think this way in the budget, the relations of local self-government units are created by parallel systems, where this and such a non-profit legal person should take credit, for example from the Business Bank. And what would that mean? With which she will guarantee, who will give her consent to the task, in what proportions, whether they will be released in a certain way, which is then not in accordance with the Budget Law and the Delegation Regulation. So there's a vacuum where you can't see what that would be in the end line, but since I'm a financier, then I know it's really going to be in the implementation of a pretty big problem, with that and here it's said that they'd have to have 5% of the planned funds from the investment. So in advance. Here, I am aware that there are some problems in funding, when it deals with units of local self-government, and then those funds that are planned to spend on something else, and then there's a problem in the settlement of funds, i.e. according to APN or the contractors, but I think that in this part we need to be a little more careful when this change happens, but ultimately everything that can improve and allow many to get to the apartment, primarily this possibility rents, and in any case, very much needed, and in any case I support the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72104	Thank you very much. One notice. We continue our work without a break, so those who want to go to lunch can go to lunch most in triplets, no different, and now Mr. Secretary of State Uhlir will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72105	Thank you very much. It's been a nice discussion about these amendments and the addition of the law. Some times it went a little wrong, but I believe that because it's a narrow specialist law, so not everyone in the details gets to know all the possibilities of this law and how some are regulated by its provisions beyond these now amendments and additions. I would refer to what happened several times today, if it wasn't demographic, if it were, in fact, anti-demographic. But far from it, though. Just all the measures being taken are only part of the wheels that triggers a whole range of demographic measures and, of course, the Ministry of Construction can only help from its segment in that part. We can't contribute in any other way. As for a series of remarks coming about that the POS programme is no longer current, that it is not interesting, that production in POS has fallen. On the same side, they come in more defiantly because they are asked that the city of Rijeka is urgently allowed to wait for the project and that they want new projects to be launched, and should be taken into account that there is also a whole range of housing products passing through the Ministry of Construction through the APN. So, the POS itself has four forms of housing problems. Among other things, this primary, it's buying apartments on credit, the second is POS plus, so it's a POs rental, so the third is for family houses and construction material. In addition, another law that speaks on another mode of solving the housing problem has been actively included, that is, helping our citizens through subsidisation of housing loans, which has a great response, so of course it is a reduced impact of this, but all together make up a whole range of products that helps our citizens to choose what suits them best. Public services, and where are the city officials? So city officials can handle this local administration through POS today. There's no obstacle. The POS Programme, the Law on socially encouraged housing, is flexible enough, and some local administrations have been dealing with the housing issues of their employees. There is no need to specifically open a new programming line for them. Public services, yes. They have been cut off so far and should have been opened as a special niche, a special programme for socially encouraged housing. It was mentioned that the borrowing of cities outside the limit should be made possible. On the other hand, the observation about the borrowing of cities, therefore this option exists in the Law, but so far has never been used precisely because they are all responsible for their work both from local administrations and from APN and have not been entered into local government borrowing projects on specific credit lines. It's a asset transfer problem. A few times today, the distinguished representative turned to me for personal attention that this problem had to be solved and I replied, of course, that if something 17 years went on one principle, if there was a problem, then it had to be solved. We're working on it, too. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72106	Thank you very much. You have one replica, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72107	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Uhlir, there was a problem with POS in the past, and the problem is called bank management in such contracts, you may not know it, but I will inform you now. Some banks have made loans and agreed on an interest rate incredibly but in a proper way. Because banks know that by the end of 2012, they did not negotiate the interest rate properly. However, in the POS system, certain banks negotiated the interest rate correctly. And then what happened? We'd like to make an agreement, for example. interest rate 3+ EURIBOR. And then when EURIBOR started falling, the banks didn't fit, so they would voluntarily change this 3 to 4 or 5, voluntarily. And the state had no idea. The one who broke it up was the Franak Association, we found out about it, and we invited the citizens to turn to the banks and ask the banks to pay back their money, and the truth is that the banks really started to pay back that money. But I don't know how many people have figured it out and how many haven't. So there's a question of bank control. The CNB has insufficient control and supervision of banks when they are told of such things, the CNB says and we are not in charge of individual contracts. I think when these systems are things, that the CNB is going to check individual contracts and it's going to have to make sure that everything with these contracts is okay. So in that sense, I think that we as a state, as a government, would have to do something in the direction of the CNB that all these contracts are systematically better controlled than those ordinary let's say "controlled" contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72108	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72109	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on socially encouraged housing, first reading, P.Z.E. number 286. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on social promotional housing and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 24 abstentions, 22 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72110	Now we move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on renting apartments, first reading, P.Z. No. 193 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on War Veterans. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72111	The esteemed representatives and MPs who are here at the moment, due to the exceptional interest that this legislative proposal has caused and the numerous semi-information in the media, in my presentation, I will briefly show the genealogy of the problem that this legislative proposal seeks finally after 20 years. If it were simply some other government and not this HNS and HDZ would have solved it long ago and there was no need to wait so long. In the procedure of adopting each regulation there is an option not to do anything. This was obviously an option used extensively so far, but after joining the EU, fundamental human rights cannot be ignored and wait for time to solve the problem. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia in December 1990, began among other things a change in social order in the Republic of Croatia from the socialist socio-economic organisation in a modern democratic and market-oriented society in which ownership rights have special protection. As a consequence, new laws have been passed that have introduced changes in our society. As regards housing policy, these are primary laws, the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law, the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, the Law on ownership and other real rights and the Law on renting apartments. The rent law was passed in '96. It's been changed on two occasions. The law on renting apartments regulates the rights and obligations relating to renting and the use of dwellings or works, and the introduction of a new legal arrangement of housing relations in the Republic of Croatia to abolish household law and to regulate the issue of housing used on a contractual basis. The transitional provisions of the law regulate the issue of termination of the household law established under the earlier applicable law and the acquisition by law of the right and obligations of the tenant, the conclusion of a lease contract for the protected rent, payment of the protected rent and other costs, legal position of members, families, households and tenants, the transfer of rights and obligations of the protected tenant, the cancellation of the lease contract, the right to purchase first in favour of the tenant, the rights of certain categories of persons of the tenants, protected tenants and other persons to whom the law recognises the legal position of the protected tenant. In the act relating to the rights and obligations of the protected tenant, the law was subject to an assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, by decision of 31 March 1998, abolished 4 provisions of this law. Those provisions are Article 21(2), which prescribed the obligation of the tenant to provide the tenant with a second habitable apartment under conditions which are not more unfavourable for the tenant in the event of the cancellation of the lease contract, that is a key part of this paragraph. Furthermore, in Article 31(2), point 3 of which the right to a protected rent did not have a protected tenant who did not use an apartment with household members for more than 6 months prior to the entry into force of the law and without the consent of the owner of the apartment. In Article 39, according to which the tenant could fire the lease contract to a protected tenant who receives permanent social assistance or who is more than 60 years old, only if the tenant of the local self-government units, or the city of Zagreb, would provide another suitable apartment with a protected rent that the tenant could pay. And finally Article 40(4), paragraph 2, according to which, in the case of a protected tenant, the tenant shall cancel the lease agreement for the reason that he intends to move in alone or intends to move his descendants, parents or persons who, according to special regulations, are obliged to maintain another suitable apartment which will not be more unfavourable for the tenant than the apartment he used. The abolition of those provisions of the law has created a legal gap that has caused significant problems in the application of the Law on Court Procedures and thus the long-term inability to exercise the rights of the tenants, owners of the dwellings and protected tenants. The provisions of the articles mentioned above have been lifted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the grounds that the criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment are too difficult for the owner, and that they should be harmonised with the criteria for the insurance of the second apartment that the units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb had. Therefore, when a local self-government unit is obliged to provide a second apartment, it is, under the provision of Article 40(3) of the Law, another appropriate apartment with rights and obligations of the protected tenant. And what is considered an appropriate apartment is prescribed by the provision of Article 41 of the Law which remains in force today. According to that provision, an appropriate apartment within the meaning of the law is considered an apartment in the same municipality or city of the size of one person, one room with the number of rooms unable to be larger than the number of persons, the number of rooms in the apartment from which it is moved. So the visible difference is this definition of the appropriate apartment that it is an apartment in the same municipality or city of the size of one person, one room of that provision that was abolished by the Constitutional Court which says that this other habitable apartment must be subject to conditions that are not unfavourable for the tenant. Disabilities are evident in the location, disadvantages are manifested in size, so de facto the exact same apartment is to be found in replacement and even in the same location. And the Constitutional Court suspended it. That was all in '98. A year. However, in the case of Statileo v Croatia, the European Court of Human Rights analysed in detail the domestic legal rules relating to the former tenants' rights and the status of protected tenants stemmed from them, and in 2014, it reached a verdict in the case which became final and, in that judgment, the European Court of Human Rights found that the existing legislative framework governing the issue of protected rental of dwellings did not establish an appropriate balance between the conflicting interests of the owners of dwellings in which protected tenants and the interests of the state live to ensure the implementation of housing policy. The European Court of Human Rights has concluded that the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia, in particular, imposes an excessive individual burden on housing owners because they are forced to bear most of the social financial costs of housing. Accordingly, in the Republic of Croatia the payment was imposed on the heir to the complaint of material damage, not material damage and expenditure, and this was the first judgment in not the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, respecting the fact that the breach of the Convention in this case is caused by the content of domestic legislation which is not in accordance with the Convention, the Republic of Croatia must comply with the provisions of Article 46(1) of the Convention in the course of the execution of the judgment against Croatia. The Conventions shall take concrete legislative measures which will address the problems caused by imposing excessive burdens on the owners of apartments in which the protected tenants live. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia should ensure a balance between the interests of the employers, including their right to obtain profits from their assets and the general interest of the Community, including the availability of satisfactory accommodation for persons in a worse position in accordance with the principles of protection of property rights under the Convention. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights identified three main shortcomings in existing legislation. And these are the 1st unsuitable amount of protected rent in terms of legal, financial burdens imposed on the tenants. 2. restrictive conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and 3. the absence of any time limit in relation to the secure rental system. Finally... The procedure for its enforcement, supervised by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, was initiated and placed under increased supervision by the execution of the judgment in question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of notifying the Committee on the execution of the judgment in question, the Office of the Representatives of the Republic of Croatia has put the Committee on Human Rights before the European Court of Human Rights and submitted an action plan under which a public debate should be carried out by the end of 2015 and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rental of dwellings for discussion and adoption of the Croatian Parliament. According to data obtained from the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights, there was no progress in the implementation of the judgment in question, the Committee considered at a meeting held in September 2016 and made a decision calling on the Republic of Croatia to submit the latest text of the draft amendments to the relevant rules in order to assess whether they were the same in line with the conclusions of the European Court of Human Rights and which strongly encourages the Republic of Croatia to step up efforts to find a comprehensive solution to the problem in question. At a meeting of the Committee in March 2017, the Statileo judgment was discussed without discussion and a decision was taken to highlight the urgent need to find a quick solution to the problem of protected rent that could be of the influence of thousands of individuals is encouraged by the Croatian authorities to take the necessary legislative measures, in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights, to provide the Committee with information on the legislative process as well as on the current link between the draft law and to decide to continue the examination of the case at the latest in their meeting in September 2017. At a meeting of the Committee held in September 2017, the conduct of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of measures to implement the Statileo Group of judgments and noted that the Croatian authorities had drawn up a draft amending and supplementing the law aimed at addressing the main shortcomings, a concrete unsuitable amount of rent, restrictive conditions for the termination and absence of a time limit and, in view of the time that has passed since the finalisation of the main judgment, stressed that it was essential that the decision-making process be brought to an end without further delay and strongly encouraged the authorities to step up efforts to make legislative changes as a matter of utmost importance and, in this particular context, called on the authorities to provide the Committee with information on their adoption by 31 December 2017 at the latest. It should be pointed out that, in the event of a delay in the execution of any judgment or of its holding, or in the absence of concrete measures for the execution of the judgment, the State refuses to execute the judgment. The Committee has a number of political-legal mechanisms at its disposal that can put pressure on the state to fulfil its international obligation. Following the judgment in the case of Statileo, the European Court of Human Rights has today reached the same verdicts in the cases of Anzulović, Milosevic, Bego, Bulic, Doris, Knego, Ingrid Knego and Matas. Also after the judgment mentioned, a number of tenants in which the protected tenants have filed lawsuits before the courts of the Republic of Croatia seeking compensation for the material damage suffered as a result of the violation of their right to enjoy their ownership peacefully. Following the above, and in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the pre-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and other cases mentioned above, as well as the prevention of further damage suffered by the owners of the dwellings and the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to adopt the proposed law. The proposal of the Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia understands and sympathies on both sides of protected tenants and employers, i.e. the owners of the apartments concerned with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Rent of Apartments, because it is aware of the fact that these are human fates and people's homes, as well as the problems that have arisen beyond the will of persons affected by the decisions of the former state. In addition, over time, the life situation of affected citizens and complex problems has become ever bigger, and all attempts to solve the existing problem with consensus have not produced fruit because there are two completely opposing sides whose demands have been regularly expressed in maximum scope. Owners want to consume full ownership rights on apartments now and immediately, and the tenants want a favourable buy-in only of those apartments they live in. Several governments have so far tried to find an optimal solution to the problem found, starting in 2002, but no proposed solution has received the minimum necessary consent as accepted. In any attempt to fix the situation since 2002, data has been re-assessed and analysed and conversations with all interested parties have been published. During the debate on the parliamentary committees on which these legal solutions were discussed, proposals were also made by some board members that the state should enable protected tenants to buy some other apartments on the market, but with the maximum subsidy so that they can actually be bought at the prices and methodology of buying out social housing from the 1990s and thus equal rights of citizens who bought out social housing. Such solutions from this aspect are not acceptable among other things which there is no reason why it would be necessary to equalise the rights of a completely different group of citizens, because then a logical question would be raised, and where it stands with these rights of equalisation from the 1990s, primarily with those citizens who built their own houses or bought apartments by credit, because the state in the sale of social apartments only allowed a small number of citizens without the cost of the state budget, but rather the state to earn dead capital trapped in apartments and to settle maintenance costs, so double benefit. For these reasons, the sales logic was then rational from the state's point of view as a good master. In addition, protected loans according to all their indications are not willing to buy any apartments other than those in which they currently live, and any such solution requires financial coverage that neither many developed countries can afford. This government, in cooperation with the HDZ and the CNS, has developed a legislative proposal that is now in the debate on the basis of previous experiences and with consultations that have been translated with all parties, all with a view to achieving a balance between the opposing interests of the employers and the tenants and to end up with atavisms from the socialist social order. The framework for solving the problem found is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the principles and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The property has always been and are privately owned, protection of private property is the cornerstone of Western culture and is protected by all international charters as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason it is not possible to prescribe the owners of the obligation to sell their apartments, a regulation that would make such a provision would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and would return our state to some society, another social arrangement. On the basis of fundamental human rights on ownership, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which the Republic of Croatia cannot ignore as a member of the EU, have also been passed. The restrictions mentioned above, as well as the concern for our citizens, and all within the scope of the state's ability, have resulted in a bill that addresses both sides in a legitimate, fair and sustainable way. Short chronology of the law in question. the process of law-making in the Republic of Croatia is particularly democratic and includes a broad public debate with the collection of opinions by all competent state authorities, consultation with the public concerned in the draft draft law and amendments to that House Rental Act, was carried out between May 2016 and June 2016. Positive opinions were given by the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Defence, State Property, Internal Affairs, Economy, Labour and Pension System, Foreign and European Affairs, Environmental and Energy Protection, Defence, Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, State Attorney's Office, Government's Legislative Office, all Ministers and Prime Ministers by voting at the meeting of the Government of Croatia. The basic issues covered by the proposed law are equated to the criteria of the size and location of the second habitable apartment in the event of the cancellation of the lease agreement at an indefinite time in which the apartment is required to provide the owner of the apartment with criteria in which the second residential apartment is obliged to provide the unit of local self-government or the city of Zagreb in such a way that it is necessary to provide an appropriate apartment where an apartment is considered the same municipality or city of the size of one person, one room with which the number of rooms cannot be greater than the number of rooms in the apartment from which it is moved. Next. Equivalence of the criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment in the event of cancellation of the rental contract to a protected tenant when the apartment is obliged to provide the owner of the apartment and where it is the same obligation to provide the unit of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb in such a way that it is necessary in both cases to provide an appropriate apartment with the rights and obligations of the protected tenant where the relevant apartment is considered the same definition. Legal protection of the tenant and protected tenant is arranged in case of cancellation of the lease agreement and in which case the unit of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb, is obliged to provide the protected tenant with another suitable apartment, with the rights and obligations of the protected tenant. The termination of the right of the tenant and protected tenant to the protected rent and other rights of protected tenants and protected tenants on the date of entry into force of this law if he, his spouse, life partner, a minor member of the family household which the tenant is obliged to maintain in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has a habitable apartment or house. A gradual annual increase in the amount of the rent of 1.2 times from the rental found over five years from the adoption of this law is arranged. The plan period is 1 July 2018 until 30 June 2023. In dwellings not owned by the local self-government unit, the regional and regional units of the Republic of Croatia and the arrangements for paying the difference between the increased rent and the protected rent by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of local self-government for socially sensitive groups of tenants, i.e. for users of dwellings who are members of the family of the dead, imprisoned, missing Croatian defender of the Homeland War. Discontinuation of the rights of tenants and protected tenants on protected rent and other rights of protected tenants and protected tenants residing in dwellings not owned by units of local self-government, the Republic of Croatia on 1 July 2023. The housing status of persons who are subject to the Law on Renting of dwellings of '96 is regulated. the year ended the tenant law and the person whose status of protected tenant in an apartment not owned by units of local self-government, regional administration and self-government or the Republic of Croatia which did not enter into an apartment rental contract under the House Rental Act and did not require the court to take the verdict to replace that contract. The advantage of protected tenants of dwellings not owned by a unit of local self-government, the regional self-government of the Republic of Croatia before other interested persons when renting an apartment or selling apartments carried out under rules governing socially stimulating housing, and apartments owned by units of local self-government, regional self-government or the Republic of Croatia that are leased or sold through a public tender, and the possibility of the employer including the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local self-government to use this right in the name and for the account of the protected tenant, the protected tenant or the tenant for the purpose of fulfilling his obligation to provide the appropriate apartment in the event of cancellation of the lease contract. The final 9th point is prescribed to grant freely contracted rents to tenants and protected tenants whose net income per household member is less than or equal to half of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia for the past year and during the period from 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2028 and whose residential area is within the housing normable frameworks of 30 + 15 m2 calculated by the number of use of the apartment. Assessment and sources of funds. According to data from the National Statistics Institute, the 2011 census in the Republic of Croatia has 3734 households with protected rent in private apartments, i.e. in apartments not owned by the local self-government unit, the regional self-government, the Republic of Croatia. In these households there are 8935 members of the household which averages 2.4 members per household. According to these data, the average area of these apartments is 62.25 m2. It is noted that this data according to the National Statistics Institute of 2011 is on the side of security according to the number of protected tenants for reasons that previously collected data by associations that gather the tenants and the tenants are significantly smaller. Data are collected from different sources, again for one reason that there is no verified state data on private apartments where the tenants are protected, because such collection of personal data is not a legal obligation under any regulation. The draft law amending and supplementing the 2002 law used official data collected from the 2001 census and as unofficial data collected by the Association of Property Owners in which it was collected, a survey conducted on 3009 apartments with tenants protected by tenants. In 2005, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning issued a public call for the collection of official data on the number of private-owned dwellings used by protected tenants and received the following information. In total, 2542 protected tenants with total dwellings of 163237 square meters, i.e. the average apartment is 64.21 square meters. The number of apartments, according to the cities, was then Bjelovar 20 apartments, Dubrovnik 208 and Zadar 6, Cavtat 14, Karlovac 13 Opatija 13, Osijek 78, Rijeka 108, Split 619, Sibenik 83, Zagreb 1277 and all other cities in the smaller part of 103. According to the latest news, it is estimated that in the top 19 private apartments mentioned, there are protected tenants, who use the apartment on the basis of rules on the rights of Croatian defenders and up to 75 mentioned private apartments have protected tenants, who receive social assistance under special rules. Starting from those data, the use of apartments according to specific regulations and the increase of protected amine from 1.2 times a year, as prescribed by this proposed law, for the implementation of that law, i.e. In order to pay the difference, between the increase in rent and the protected rent in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to invest in 6 g. 600 thousand 77,000 kuna. Furthermore, starting from those data, and increasing the protected rent 1.2 times a year, to pay the difference between the increase in rent and the protected rent in the budgets of certain units of local self-government in which private-owned apartments are located, social care users need to provide approximately 2 million and 700 thousand kuna in 6 years. These amounts are in the cities' budgets, as we received data from the capital cities, Zagreb, Split, Šibenik Rijeka and Osijek. Furthermore, according to the State Statistics Office, the average monthly salary in 2016 in the Republic of Croatia amounted to € 5685, while the average net consumption per household member was € 2336, which is the sum of each household providing from its income, and is also considered as average payment options, per household member. In the period 23-28, according to the proposed law, the difference between increased rent and freely contracted rent will be for those tenants who do not receive permanent social assistance under specific rules and who do not use the basic rules on the rights of Croatian defenders, who are assessed in dwellings in 3640 apartments. The amount of these subsidies, sublimed, amounts to 47 million and 500 thousand kunas over 5 years. In the end, the taste of the proposed legal provisions, it comes down to the fact that, firstly, the owners of the apartments, the tenants, get the exact date, when they can fully, freely dispose of their real estate, and until then the procedure increases their protected rent, reducing the gap compared to the market. Second, the tenants, in addition to 5 years of retaining the status of a protected tenant, also receive a state subsidy in the payment of a market rent, after the expiry of the existing status for an additional 5 years and the security that they will not lose their right to a home, with alternative ways of resolving the housing issue if no agreement with the owner is left. All of the above, given the emphasis that the proposed ex-legis law does not deny anyone the use of the existing apartment. And as achieved by the prescribed advantage of protected tenant apartments, in purchase, rental, housing, POS or when available to local government and city-owned apartments. According to particularly endangered groups of citizens, especially the care of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units. Following the above, in order to fulfil the obligations resulting from the above-mentioned decisions of the Constitutional Court and to fulfil international obligations under the European Court of Human Rights. As well as to prevent further damage suffered by the owners of apartments, i.e. by the owner of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, proposes the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Rent Act, which, in a legal and fair and sustainable manner, solves the problems of the two completely opposing parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72112	Thank you very much. Now we have 19 replicas. Let's go in turn, he's the first respected representative of Goran Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, this half-hour lullaby we have heard here from the secretary of state does not reflect exactly what will happen after the potentially ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament adopts this law. No one contests the rights of the owner, but no one should challenge the right to home or the residence of our 4,000 families, more than 10,000 citizens who today are looking forward to what the Croatian Parliament will decide in the first and second readings. Their right that they have as well as all those who have rightly consumed it in the 1990s should not be questioned. What's going to happen to this law is the fact that in 2023 these people were left without a roof over their heads. And that's a fact. No subsidies, no criteria, no social security, so the local unit, the state, will take care of it, and what if it doesn't take care of it? What if not one of the most fashioned men makes a deal with the tenant? You will have nearly 4,000 Croatian families on the road. And that is not a just solution, and one injustice cannot be replaced by a new injustice. A just solution is to depriving each other and to protect the right to the home of these people who now have no right to do so. And as for compassion, please don't talk about it, because you don't sympathise with these people, otherwise you would personally go say hello down to this winter, -10 of them, 200, 300 who have protested here, so much about the government's compassion and the ruling coalition towards these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72114	Thank you. Here's the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72115	Thank you very much. I'll start with this compassion. So the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister personally received a gentleman who protested and had no need for me to accept them as a lower state official. As far as these people are going to stay on the street, there's no such thing as a fact, and it was pointed out in my presentation that all the instruments exist that doesn't exactly happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72116	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First I'd wonder where Mr. Stromar went? So, very interestingly, we don't see him at all. Does he even work? It would be good to hear him sometimes in this assembly based on everything he does, since he is probably the author of this Law. We heard from Mr. Uhlir on several occasions that this solution is, as he said, legally, justly and resiliently for the two completely opposing sides. Well, I find this proposal deeply immoral, not legal, not fair and not sustainable. He deals with human rights in a completely technical way and in a very bad way. It's scandalous that these poor people who are threatened to throw out on the street in 2023, many of whom will be close to 90 years old if they manage to live after this stress, all of what's going to happen to them, call communist likers and usurper of private property. Is that the minister's speech to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not guilty of anything? So it's not their fault that they're in those apartments, it's not their fault that this problem isn't solved. It's the state's fault. And the state needs to take responsibility for offering a quality solution. This legislative proposal is not a quality solution. It should actually be withdrawn from the procedure and offered a brand-new proposal, but a proposal that before that made a quality analysis of the situation in all 3700 apartments. So there can be no solution to all the problems of different situations of people living in these apartments. The owner of these apartments, the mixers who bought these apartments, many of which are in HNS, so this is another example of the trade-orthage coalition in the way the HNS does it. And Mr. Uhir, you can tell me if you're in conflict of interest in writing this law, since you're also the owner of such an apartment or more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72118	Thank you. The answer of the Secretary of State, the esteemed Iron Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72119	Thank you very much. So, so far since 2002, it has been trying in different ways to solve this problem that has arisen, and each time one of the arguments to give up on solving this problem is an analysis of each individual. So that's an argument when you want to stop the process. When he doesn't want to solve the problem. Then let's go to each individual, and these are private apartments, private property, personal data. I don't know who could do one such analysis. Secondly, as far as my personal involvement in the making of this Law is concerned, of course it is known, and now I have said several times that since 2002 it has been working on this Law and cannot one person so much as create a law that everyone else is blinded to it. Next, as to my conflict of interest, your colleague, Peja Grbin, asked the committee directly, and I removed the original documents and showed him that I had nothing to do with this conflict of interest, which is trying to show in public. In 2005, I took over the apartment, or legal representative of my family’s wider circle. Even I personally took over an apartment from the city of Zagreb with records and witnesses after the return of property. And that's the whole story over.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72120	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72121	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I'm going to do about what I said on the Justice Committee. Roman law is over 2,000 years old and this Roman law has hit the foundations of justice and our legal system. One of the most important expressions of that right is:.../The speaker speaks Latin./... which means in translation is the right of the art of good and just. I don't think this law is in the spirit of that saying. I don't think this law has come out equally for both owners and tenants. The owners must certainly come to their property, they have already had to do so before. However, the tenants who were protected by some old system we had did not blame themselves for coming into a position that they had planned their life in a way that they thought they would be protected for the rest of their lives. And that is why the state is obliged to find better solutions in this situation for these tenants, and certainly their ownership is returned to the sea. In this context, I believe that the initiative I heard on the Committee on Justice is an initiative, that at the the thematic session of the Committee on Justice to join and some committees find better solutions, that this law, which is on the agenda, is being removed from the agenda and that a much better and more quality solution is being proposed which will respect this sentence that I said at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72122	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72123	Thank you very much. As regards the fair solution and the skill of the legal profession, that is why this law, i.e. the amendments and additions, is so complex because the edged framework set to possible solutions is such that it directs exactly in this direction in which it is proposed. Everything else jumps out of that frame and, in fact, some of the conditions set don't satisfy it. This proposal for a solution that you mentioned and that it was listed on the Committee, I commented on it in my opening speech, so it opens up an emotional solution to this issue, not rationally. As soon as we start writing laws by emotion, then we don't have any more fences, then there are no boundaries. And that's what I mentioned today, if we start equating another group of citizens with rights from the 1990s, then where are the boundaries? Who's next who's asking and where am I? Then I'm cut off. Where are those who built houses by means of their means, why is something not subsidized to them? Where did those who bought apartments on the market take loans at that time why don't we help them now? So the state is rational then to cut costs and make a profit at selling social housing decided on the move primarily, and secondaryly helped those people to become apartment owners. So that was a clear, logical idea of what was then sought. Now look for some other logic, but then where are the limits of that logic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72124	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72125	Thank you very much. Here's the secretary, while I'm listening to you all the time, then I'm changing into the main thing that I'm going to ask you is, from your answer to answer, you're clearly letting me know whose side you're on, and how you've presented the whole law, you've presented it in a trendy way, you've presented it in a way that you're now convinced and you've hidden the data, and I've asked you on the board how many real owners who inherit the property and how many buyers are. Is this an essential difference and an important approach to solving this problem? You ignored him on purpose, but it doesn't matter why there's a lot to kill in my debate, I'm going to ask you next. You know that anyone who is over 50 has a problem raising a housing loan. After five years, protected tenants point out their status and they are literally left on the streets, tell units of local self-government that can help them and do not have the capacity they have or do not have. I'm asking you, how are you gonna feel when you start taking out protected tenants-owners-mechanicals from their apartments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72126	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72127	Thank you very much. You asked about the owners and some other owners, so we have several kinds of owners. Ownership rights are only one and a human right and a fundamental right of ownership you are protecting in whatever form they are, however it may be acquired if it is not a criminal action. As for age problems of the population and credit raises, it is only one possible way to solve the problem that might arise. Another problem is renting, renting in social housing, renting in private apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72128	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72129	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Today is 2018, and today we are solving a problem that we inherited from SFRY, and no one has said it yet, it's a problem that is 70 years old, perhaps slightly less, it's a process of nationalisation when the decree was taken away from people who had them more by some strange criteria or by their own means and given by the same strange key to other people. However, no one here has told us exactly how many apartments it is. According to your data on 3734 apartments or almost 9,000 protected tenants, it is estimated that it is about 2.4 residents per apartment on average. What I don't understand here, you've listed a whole series of instruments to help secure the apartment to protected tenants after 2023, but I haven't seen the guarantee. I of all the instruments you've listed have not seen the guarantee that these people really, as they said, won't be on the street. But I would point out one more thing here if there were many different examples, I would point out one from my Sibenik. It's about Mr. Ivica Bratic who couldn't get an apartment in communism because he wasn't like him, he was brought in many times for nationalism, in '91. In the year of the nightmare of war, he received an apartment that was under the Sibenik Municipality at the time, later denationalising that apartment was no longer his own, but was returned to the property of the real owner. The apartment was hit by a grenade when he entered it, it restores it, in that apartment he raised his four children, a Croatian defender, a volunteer. The man's worried because from this law he's not reading the guarantee that he won't be on the street tomorrow, so it's only a little bit of an explanation of whether these people are gonna end up on the street or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72130	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72131	Thank you very much. So the investment issues in other people's assets are being addressed by some other laws and other procedures. So this law couldn't cover everything, it's completely clear how someone can claim their investment in other people's property, the Mandatory Relations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72132	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. This is a very complex problem, we can't look at it in unequivocally because not only do people of the same age group live in these apartments. What I can say I met when I came to the Parliament of a group of citizens from Dalmatia who had frozen, they were upset and scared and begged to be helped. You should take care of that right now. I've gotten the impression from this bill that he's not protecting such, let's say weak groups because they're mostly people of an older age who no longer have the income to pay rents that are now going to rise drastically in the next five years. And what happens after five years we don't know enough about it. We see from this State Secretary statement that there are no well-known and quality solutions. Moving these old people from one place to another, we can only imagine what that means to them. For their children, there is a different situation, with them the state will actually have to resolve the issue. But you play at this age with people, you can't move them like sacks from one side to the other. Therefore, private property really needs to be protected and this is quite clear, but not in a way that is disturbing and simply doing harm to protected tenants. And that is why on behalf of the party we change Croatia I suggest you withdraw this bill until better quality solutions are come up. I repeat, we all have to especially government because you are the executive authority being socially sensitive, there are living people in different living situations, financially threatened and not to be disturbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72134	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72135	Thank you very much. Also this direction of analysis to the last of the 3700 people and this direction of withdrawal until something else is found, is actually done from 2002 to today, this is the result, by insisting on analyses and searching for another solution that is not available. So if there's a better solution, a better quality solution that meets those edge conditions that are set up, we're going to install it into this law, we have two readings. But the withdrawal only because it's suspected that this solution is not good, not having another solution, I don't think it was good. Among other things, the protected tenants are extremely insecure at the moment. The European Court of Human Rights presses the solution on the one hand, and they lack a key article in the existing law, they do not have the protection of the insurance of the other replacement apartment, it is an deleted article. So if our courts go now to execute judgments and move out would be a much worse situation than to pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72136	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is the state that has to regulate relations in society, and so it is relations between the two completely opposing groups that did not stand up to themselves but brought the state back to this situation with its decisions of the 40s, 1950s, and who knows what years of the last century. And the worst thing that the state can do is to oppose each other these two groups of people who were in no way opposed but fate and state decisions brought them into this situation. It is wrong to say that this has some ideological sound that those in the apartments are similar to one, and that those who own these ones are unsuitable because the moment the first Croatian president bought such an apartment the day before the law was passed, if there was that story, it was over. A well-known politician, if I remember correctly, divorced fictitically to buy two apartments from that system at a preferential price. You can check it out. Therefore, at this point, the state must find it without ideological observations of the mechanisms to make these two groups of people meet their rights. The first is the right of owners to enjoy ownership and the second is the right of those who have legally moved into these apartments because the state has also allowed those who have illegally moved into apartments to buy at a preferential price after the 1990s. Is that the same rest of socialism? It's not. Therefore, at this point, this balance has not been found and I don't think that the state without insurance will even find a larger amount of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72138	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72139	Thank you very much. I don't think you could have heard from my opening speech any commitment to any side, especially not to label it political or other direction. However, I would use and respond briefly to Mr Jovanovic who called the entire party if he had interests in this law which I could categorically refuse. I don't see anyone who would have any direct and no interest in passing this law except to do something useful for our country and for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72140	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72141	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State, Uhlir. And we were almost all agents buried in our and boxing against protected tenants and their fates as well as the owners themselves, and it's good that in your opening statement you were talking about the state, the government being sympathetic to both the opposing sides and that you tried to find the best solution. I am sorry that our colleagues from other clubs will not accept the fact of the European Court of Human Rights ruling where we must go with the adoption of such a law or that this law, which we are now talking about, will be supervised by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. What you have particularly highlighted but not enough, and this is that because not only of this Western civilization but also because of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in Article 3 of Article 48 when we are talking about property integrity and where the right of ownership is guaranteed we must also take great care of the owners of those apartments. What's not good is that the owners of these apartments are talking about owners, some shopkeepers I don't understand is the owner is talking about some kind of bogeyman, and the protected tenants are talking about a lot more compassion and emotional connection with such apartments, which is not good. And from what you said, I'll tell you one piece of information that doesn't have to be true, but protected tenants own an apartment or a house, so 1083 has one own apartment or house, and 316 have two own apartments or houses, and 105 have three own apartments or houses. So it would be good to deal with even more accurate data as far as I know at this point we don't know how many protected tenants are. So the owner is the owner, he can't be the nominal and speculative owner whether someone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72142	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72143	Thank you for your comment. I have no objection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72144	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72145	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I actually have an inquiry that is of a technical nature. It's a very complex problem, and I'll do it when I discuss it on behalf of the club and say it. However, there, in 2000 and 2001, when a law was tried to go after it, the number of 13000 dwellings in which we have protected tenants was discussed. After that we came to the 2011 data on 3831 it was statistical, the ministry came to 2542 apartments in 2005 after asking a public call, in 2014 when a public call came to 948 apartments. First of all, what I'm curious about is what it's like to do a law that's estimated how realistically there are apartments where the tenants are protected because we're here with 3,000, 4,000, so it'd be bad to read the wrong number. But what we have to say clearly, the owners will get to their apartments sooner or later. They'll get into those apartments. So far, solving this problem has been done in several ways, in such a way that someone has bought it. The tenants bought from their employers, and part of the problem was solved by nature in a way that was about the older population and those after they left this world, the owners came to the apartment. Therefore, the law is in principle a law that should resolve the majority of the status of the tenants. The tenants or owners have their own property, no one has ever taken them away from them. But to get back to that question, I went too far, how far the ministry appreciates that at this point we have apartments where the tenants are protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72146	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72147	Thank you very much. So you mentioned the analyses that are all known and I also cited them in the opening speech just to get the impression that they were able to. It's private property, and there's no way to force someone to check on who he has and what status he's in. So these are data collected on a voluntary basis, and that's why they're gathered on three sides. And on the safety side is this data from the National Statistics Office of 2011 3700 and some apartments according to the data of one and the other associations that are significantly smaller. So we're on the side of security with regard to the burdens of the state budget and the units of local self-government. The other part of you that you've been having problems dealing with is that you need to take more care of protected tenants, and less owners, and that's what I was saying first. So we have a framework within which we have to look for a solution. Seeking a solution outside the box is not a solution. If our framework is that it is very restrictive to set up opportunities for the termination of the lease agreement, that the unlimited duration of the lease contract, the European Court of Human Rights ruling, therefore it is not to do anything. It's not good and we can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72148	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72149	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Representatives of the government. Now I'd just like to make one comment on what you've said more from the level... of analysis. You said it was adavism from the socialist social order and that we should leave it alone. It seems to me that you are working very well with this atavism now to implement a new form of nationalisation and that it is a nationalisation of privacy and nationalisation of the rights of protected tenants. In what way? We must not view these people as those who remain in this socialist social order and now serve us as cheap political as cheap political horrors. These are people who are victims of historical circumstances and these are people who are discriminated against by politics and people who are discriminated against and based on these laws of ours. You asked one question, and that's a question of where and how long it can go with logical principles. Since this is the area of my profession, I will tell you that with logical principles you should go until social justice is realized. Social justice needs to be achieved by laws that will not be discriminated against, which will solve certain problems. You decided in your legal decisions that tenant rights holders would become protected tenants, protected tenants to become tenants, and tenants to become homeless. If that's social justice and if that's the legality that you're promoting right now, it's the legality that is against fundamental logic, it's the legality that is against citizens, and it's the legality that discriminates and nationalises exactly human privacy and the right to a home. In addition, you have failed to cope with either two constitutional categories, one is the right to a home, and the other is the right to property. Keep them on the contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72150	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72151	Thank you very much. Well, it's not good to talk about who's being discriminated, who's not when we're just trying to get rid of mutual satisfaction. Everyone has to pull back a little bit from the maximum solutions they're looking for. It can't be concluded, I don't know where you recognize this discrimination against protected loans since I repeat it again for the third, fourth time, we have a default framework within which we can work solutions. All solutions outside the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the principles and rulings of the European Court of Human Rights are not acceptable. We can't do anything against these two permanent frames. I think that was it, I don't know if I forgot anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72152	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72153	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, I will repeat one thesis I presented yesterday on the Committee on Space Planning and Construction. By the way, we building engineers know what the foundation, such a building, so we could say what the foundation of this law is, like that and the law. Because when I look at the grades... The means to implement this law, we see that the data from 2011 were taken from the census, we all know how the census was conducted and we see again that it was 3,700 dwellings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally do not understand that we are discussing the law in 2018, we are taking a measurement of the information from 2011 and that we have not been able to verify all these apartments or individual rights for the past seven years. You told me yesterday that we should make a single census again, at least you could make a new public call that everyone can apply, we have a current fact. I also think that we should stop being the government of ping-pong balls, we should be state-of-the-art on this issue, if this means that the state needs to give a billion kuna to solve this problem, whether by the owner, or by the tenant, I personally think that this is a solution to the problem and let's not say that there is no money in the state if 10 days ago the Minister of State Property is and I said that the state budget increased by 426 million kuna by selling 3 hotels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72154	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72155	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you're basically yourself contradictory all the time, one hour you're talking one thing, another hour you're talking the other. You're obviously not ready for this debate. First you say that this problem should not be approached with emotions, then you offer the damages compassion, then you say that during the negotiations they set out maximumist demands and you did not listen to them at all. So you haven't listened to either side, unlike the MPs, whom we've been seeing around here for the last 10 days, people, their e-mails and messages, and who have made absolutely opposite demands from those you've called maximumist. So it's not true that the protected tenants just and only want to stay in the apartment they are in. They are willing to accept replacement apartments, one part of them, a good part of them, one part of them is willing to accept some other kind of compensation, and the same is true for nominal owners, those who wish to evict them. Therefore, your claim that they came to you with maximum demands is simply not true. This is your structure. At no time did you put these people at the same table and talk to them. Not at all. You've listened to the towers, rumors, possibly read through the portals of a single story, but you haven't made systematic negotiations, which would be a single ministry's duty. You're offering people compassion as if you were some kind of caritative institution and it's your job as a ministry to offer solutions. If it is your decision to allocate 8 million kuna a year to solve the problem of a few decades old in which several tens of thousands of people will be damaged, then indeed, such a ministry has no purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72156	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72157	Thank you. Well, it's not true that neither we in the ministry nor I listened to them personally. I can do it 10 times in a row. So people, representatives, not each and every 1,700 people were received, their representatives were received in different mandates. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, the minister then, organised a joint meeting with everyone in the past term. Everyone could say what they wanted. In this term, the ministerial assistants specifically received them and spoke with each one in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72158	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72159	Thank you very much. In front of us is a very complex problem that has arisen even in communism where private property has been taken away, but after the system has created other victims, we have made one injustice, and now we have another injustice against the people who are using these apartments, properties, according to then applicable laws, they have a tenant right as well as many other citizens and I do not see in this proposal what you should see. A colleague, Pranjic, said it in part. First of all, I don't see the most responsible person in the ministry, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Stromar, giving us a clear view here because the fact that after 5 years, private property should not be disputed at all, however, can you tell me what the calculation is, i.e. How much government is, how much you've provided the funds and whether you've estimated the value of these properties because simply without money, you won't be able to solve this problem because you're doing injustice to injustice. What happened in communist times is now being passed on to this time. So we're creating victims as the system changed as legal sequences, we're creating a problem and you're not giving solutions except that you've been reading a number of directives here for half an hour. As much as the state has secured the money or needs to secure the money, and as long as money is not provided, I don't know how you conduct the negotiations at all. People had some kind of household right, these had property, it's complicated, it's complicated still in communism, and we can't get rid of it in a way that we give up some people and throw them out on the street just because they had a tenant right under some law from the former state that we're the legal followers of the Insect Rainer: Thank you. Comrade Bulj, thank you....will we now create an orphanage because we must throw 4,000 people and 10,000 people into the street Please give... [[Thank you. My friend Bulj, thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72160	My friend Bulj, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72161	Thank you very much. So your remark goes in the direction without proposing a solution, but also only exposure to dissatisfaction. I repeat, we have clear frameworks, within these frameworks you see for yourself how difficult it is, you cannot find a solution, but you are unhappy with what is proposed. So we offered on our side what we think is best from the existing framework. No one's gonna throw anybody out on the road. Money, the fiscal impact is projected and it is contained in those 47 million subsidies, the state will not go over it, and that's what I said in the opening part of why. Because if we extend the benefits or extend subsidies to a small group of citizens, others automatically appear. How, then, will you defend the state’s attitude toward all others who have failed to resolve the housing issue? I can give you a million 875 thousand 444 apartments from '91. In the year, 393 thousand 242 were protected by 25 percent of which 75 thousand 400 were not bought as protected, could or could have been social dwellings in conversion and could have been redeemed. 20% of them 75 grand today are in social housing that they didn't want to buy. So all of the 25% of the total fund 20 hasn't yet bought 20%. We are talking about the narrow population that had that right, which had these benefits, and now they would expand it to the entire population of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72162	The next replica is the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72163	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. It is not easy to solve the problem when one is right, and the other is not seen very often, but in this case it is a two-right conflict. And you've got the European Court of Human Rights directives, and that's the problem you need to solve. But we know in five years that we're not going to solve this, and that means these people are flying out. We haven't been able to do the same for 20 years, you've been commenting on HDZ failed to solve it, HNS failed to solve it, but here's now in this killer combination when you're with each other now you should solve it. Respect that European Court decisions, however, in 2023 will come quickly. The burden was put on the state, local self-government, cities that they would settle it by 2023. We know that we have a million applications for apartments anyway, and I'm sure, unfortunately, I'm sure neither state nor local self-government nor cities in five years will have 4,000 housing units to solve all these people. So, the attempt to commend something to be solved, but I think this is the way you predicted where one will eventually be privileged is not fair. The state has cooked up the whole story and the whole story should be resolved. Somewhere around 350m euros is the cost of this whole story, and if Croatia has to buy, for example, second-hand aircraft that cost even more than that, for me and myself, our citizens are more personally important than second-hand cans from Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72164	Thank you. Would you like to answer that? Here you go. Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72165	Thank you very much for the question or comment, but we cannot agree that solutions are not envisaged. The solutions are built in, solutions are embedded in the frameworks of possibilities and the transitional period of two times five years has just been made to gradually solve the problem that will arise, and not to race in one day in one year. As far as priorities are concerned, of course there are always some priorities in the state budget, is that this is the science of the economy because resources are being sought, and they are limited and that is why we have the whole science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72166	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72167	Dear Mr. Uhlir. As a representative of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, I didn't really expect anything else from you or here to remind you, said Mr. Andrej Plenkovic that when he was elected, his HDZ government would stop the actions. Following his statement, you have created a law that actually provides for the gradual representation of 10,000 citizens without giving them a lasting solution. You'll say it's appropriate, that it's right and I personally think it's not, the Living Wall Club thinks it's not and we'll fight your solutions and invite you to withdraw from the procedure of this bill. The reason for this is that you do not solve the problems of the tenants or owners or you continue to push the owners into ownership disputes, the tenants will continue to be disbursed. The only fair solution is that the state allows those real owners, or original owners and their heirs, to return to dwellings where tenants now live, and that the state gives the tenants replacement apartments. And on the other hand, that buyers who are not the original owners are given economic damages or that they are given the same substitute property, if the tenants want to stay in apartments where they live for more than 50 years. Household law isn't much of a novelty, it wasn't introduced in '45, it existed before. Unfortunately, I see that this government has no hearing and sociality from HDZ, from Bandic Milan 365, and not a bit of you. And I only ask you on the way to answer whether you are pushing this bill solely because you yourself or whether you own or own a few dwellings in which the tenants live? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72168	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72169	Thank you very much. No, I'm not. I don't have a protected ten-way ten-way lease today, but since it started in the media, maybe ten-times. On the Legislative Committee, I took out the original documents to Peji Grbino and showed him, therefore, I did not, I have no protected tenants. As far as new replacement apartments are concerned, it's more difficult to give everyone everything. But how, from where? So it's not just that group to give something, but then we automatically open giving it to everyone because this is a small group of people to those who have solved housing issues in completely different ways. And they're cut off, where are they? They'll be here right away if we open these. The shoplifters, the property is uninjured, the property is just one thing. What would be the legal certainty of the state if we went into reviewing how someone acquired property? It just can't be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72170	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So somehow to call this part of solving certain housing issues in Croatia, although this is a long time as we all said here, solving housing issues is one trilogy. You saw the first settlement of housing issues in the Swiss franc, and here I was glad that we were all unique in this House and passed a unique law in this context to save those who lived in those apartments. The second trilogy was with RBAs and then the proposal came from fellow Scybols, the government involved, the SDP also supported, I think it was a good solution, that we passed such laws uniquely. What we see today from all the clubs of MPs, fear has dragged into people, and I think it would be wise and wise not to bring this law with 78 hands, to ask for a second reading whether you will withdraw or not, to try to give your proposals, to agree with them, because this is a very important issue, and I would like that how unique we were in solving very important housing issues in these two previous laws where we said we were unique, to solve such issues, and tomorrow when issues come to be blocked to be unique, as well as in this law. Try not to force something like this over to break, and I know that you have pressures on the other side to bring it, but let's see here again as you see it, the data is from 2011, now in 2018, we want at least in these arguments to be more quality data, stronger data, and to try what's going to be seen today, what some clubs are going to bring out, and certainly I am calling on them to sit down again and try to find a consensus on this issue because I think it's extremely important that when we're already dealing with these housing issues, that there are no certain individuals in this House then, but to pass these laws are important and unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72172	Thank you, the answer of the respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72173	Thank you very much for trying consensus and finding a solution in any case, let's go in two readings, let's go with proposals, constructive proposals, within the frameworks of the options and, in fact, can adopt everything that is possible. No one escapes from it, no one insists on a single solution if there are any more. Accurate data, I said today, I've said several times already on boards, very difficult exact data, a new census, 120 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72174	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72175	Mr. Vice President. I hear these replicas from a party whose former president... I also hear from the president of the GLAS party who says they are liberals, as it is not so important to take care of the owners, that's what you said to me, that only this other group should be more stressed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, I'm not a liberal, but when I hear it from the liberals, it comes to me or those who call themselves liberals, to remind themselves of what it is... He wrote in his classic “The Way to Slavery” where the book is ironically dedicated to all socialists in all parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I'm not a liberal, I'm a Christian Democrats, I want private property to be respected, but I also want the state to be social, but there's actually a key to my problem in this debate and where we should possibly work more until the second reading. So we don't have accurate data at this point. We should work on that, too. We're talking about those who are protected by the tenants, but do we know what their incomes are, how many of them are really in use, and who might be the ones who don't give us tomorrow turns out to be protecting someone who maybe doesn't need that kind of protection because it's both colleagues and colleagues, social injustice. So, without that information, we can hardly do it. And if we had that data, maybe for those who are really in need we could have better solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72176	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72177	I thank you for your questions and your comments. Therefore, the resolution procedure follows and individual solutions are made on each person. In the process of solving and bringing an individual solution, all documentation will have to be removed and the actual state of each individual. In advance of collecting their data, I think it would be difficult given the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72178	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic, who is missing, who is losing his right to speak. And thus exhausted the replicas to the opening exhibition. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Before the debate begins, I want to tell you that practically all the clubs have come forward. And that we have 14 individual discussions reported. Therefore, my assessment is that the point will last until nine o'clock in the evening if there is no replica, if it is longer. Here it is, just so we all know how to deal with the following points because there are three other points behind them. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA MP Branimir Bunjac will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72179	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected state ministers with an associate. Here we see that the Vice President of the Parliament complains about a lot of work, and then it's logical that there was one break because everything needs to be solved in one day. Today we'll obviously have a debate by 3:00 in the morning, but well, we've rested, so we've got energy. If I were to get back on the subject, our theme is the House Rental Act, and in the introduction I'd like to say the following. In 1990, Croatia had about 350 thousand residents in the so-called Social housing and the vast majority are allowed to buy an apartment according to the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law, and they generally bought those apartments for about 10% of its value. It may seem very small, but it should be told the truth that all those tenants have spent their whole lives paying so-called. a housing contribution that was to be spent on building these same social housing. However, the Law on renting apartments that we are discussing today in the first version of 1996 is not allowed for the people who lived in apartments with so-called. the nominal owners are granted the status of protected tenants. And they got the right to live in these apartments by very low rents, so about the price is going from 2 kuna per square metre to more but they have experienced one uncertainty that the nominal owners or they themselves say owners have to deal with them from that, in a sense that they would be very happy to move them out as soon as possible and these are not given because the protected tenants want to stay in their apartment for the rest of their lives. Over time, the conflict between the two opposing parties was growing, simply because changes in ownership relations were taking place and among other things because people were under increasing stress, so in the end between the two sides, we could almost say hate because no one solved their problem. So today there is virtually no dialogue between them, but they are buried on their own side, and the other side is accused by different disqualifications and insults at a personal level. As a rule, the nominal owners or owners call protected tenants communist likers and privileged citizens while protected tenants are calling those who want to throw out their customers and speculators. Gradually, the problem was resolved in the sense that there were fewer and less protected tenants year by year, so some starting number of 12, 13 thousand of them now fell to 3,000, 700 apartments per year according to the 2011 record, it is very important to stress. And that's right, Mr. Stier and some other MPs. We're processing data from 2011, it's 2018, and we don't really know exactly what kind of data it is, but it's likely that the figures are lower than those that are given in the reasoning of the law. The state has done absolutely nothing to solve this problem, and it is a great shame for all governments from 1996 to today. It is the shame of the Government of Zlatko Mateša, the shame of the Government of Ivica Racan, the shame of the Government of Ivo Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, Zoran Milanović and Tim Oreshkovic. But this government also does nothing honest to solve this problem. The government noted that the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favour of the owner, starting with the judgment of Statileo and beyond, and now the government is under the pressure, and under the instructions it wants to address the problem. But still not in a way that she would be responsible for it herself. Because the solution to this problem is delayed by two cycles of 5 years, which means by 2023 and 2028 when Mr. Uhlir will certainly no longer be State Secretary, Andrej Plenkovic will certainly not be Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, nor will Mr. Bačić and Mr. Štromar be club presidents, or ministers. Again, my concern goes to another. Let this problem be solved in 2028. I will now banalize Marin Schibol. So it's a young generation, a new generation. So that's the move our government is offering us. The easiest way to say it is, Europe has ordered, an excuse for everything, said Europe I am working and almost, with an air-conditioned nose when it gets a little old, I am doing everything immediately and with it I have washed every conscience and every responsibility. That's very bad because this isn't about bureaucratic law or technical law, this is about people, people. This isn't about bricks, it's not about walls, it's about whole lives, literally. And what does the government offer now? It offers a solution that pleases neither the owners nor the tenants. Owners say why we would now wait five years if we had the right to some kind of market rent or ten years to enter into the full estate of these properties after we have waited for decades. They believe that everything should be implemented within a year, for example, called for by Slovenia. Their demands as soon as possible, as soon as they return the property, are fully justified. They are angry among other things as mentioned here that one part of these tenants have real estate in their possession, not just one but two or three properties, and are represented as future homeless. You have one specific example, here's Mrs. Kate Hasudaak from Dubrovnik County says that four of them live in one room, while protected tenants live in their apartment and have two apartments, one in Zagreb, the other in Dubrovnik. They say they were severely persecuted in the communist regime and lost everything they owned during the Homeland War. In addition, they claim that their apartment is culturally well in the Dubrovnik area, that the apartment is completely devastated. The lady writes that she feels completely humiliated and believes that in Croatia they have more right dogs than her family. That's one story, the owner's story. Protected tenants are dissatisfied because they live in their apartments from birth, some and longer than 70 years and hoped to be able to buy their apartments as well as the owners of social dwellings in the 1990s. By the 1990s, they were in exactly the same legal status as the owners of social housing, the exact same legal status. Croatia said with the Treaty of Succession as the successor of the Socialist Republic of Croatia that it recognises the situation found in 1990 and that it will not make a difference in acquired rights, and yet it has now done so. She gave one of them the right. She didn't give the others the right, the right, the right, the right, the way to whom, the way to whom. The church dwellings that were taken away from the church of the state gave them compensation, gave them other apartments. If we go according to the principle of "pars pro toto", if we let one, if we have damaged one, why don't we now defile the other? Protected tenants say, among other things, that they invested large amounts of money in the apartments they lived in, and I believe they did because no one can live 70 years in an apartment without investment and some even claim to have spent more money than on the renovation of the apartment today. Protected tenants are also called to Slovenia, for example, where it clearly states that the apartments were returned to the owners in less than a year, but the second replacement apartment was provided to them, had to be provided by whoever took the apartment and took it. So whoever took his apartment had to give it back to him or who declared him a protected tenant, he had to take care of it. And who declared him a protected tenant? So the state, the municipality and they had to take over the task of taking care of these protected tenants at their expense, and not as Mr. Uhlir here offers, who escaped normally as soon as he saw someone coming out of the Living Wall, says raise your loans. So who wants to take out a loan? Well, I can't get a loan, and where some man I don't know of, 70, 80 years is going to raise non-employable loans and has a pension of a thousand, two thousand kunas, he has the right to the POS championship. Here we go, Mr. Uhlir. You go back to your apartments and compete for POS, so I'll feel with you with a feeling like you feel with a protected tenant. Therefore, we come to the point, and the point is that the country must be involved in this problem, the state must be involved in the problem, and the country that we see does not involve itself except in the way that it has given five years for these people to move out, so who lives, who dies in five years, and which gives some skinny subsidy of eight million kuna per year for a vulnerable population group or social cases. It's absolutely certain that when this law comes into force in five years we'll have a whole series of delicacies, we'll have people who won't have anywhere to go who'll be homeless. How complicated this situation is and how badly it is broken over the knee I would like to read to you in one example, Damir Rujic, a protected tenant from Split. In an apartment on St. John's Street. In 1959, Klare moved in because his family was taken from the land and houses, and he was assigned an apartment, or protected from the rent as compensation. He was a year old then. His apartment was bought by a returnee from America as inconclusive who bought three apartments at the same time and was still the one who bought his apartment from a state-owned social apartment. His father never got a social apartment because he was thought to have a settled housing issue. At the time of the Homeland War, the gentleman was on the southern battlefield, he lived his whole life in his current apartment and is now retired and says with such a bill of law he feels like a homeless man to whom a great injustice and a deprived basic right, right to a roof over his head. Mr. Stipe Juretta from Zagreb until 1985 lived in his own house, had his own house with 500m yard and garden and then his house and yard were expansified because they needed the state and what did the state give him in exchange? In exchange, the state gave him an apartment where he was later declared a usurper and that he should be thrown out on the street. What do you think of these examples? So there are examples of what has been mentioned several times in the debate that this law seeks to replace one injustice with another injustice. And there's a key reason why the living wall of this law won't support it, it won't support it. If Mr. Bačić, I am speaking to you because there is no Secretary of State, you are able to bring all interested parties to Agrokor and put them at the table next to the state mediator and let them discuss for a year and make arrangements. Then go ahead, bring the interested parties here all for one table and let them say what they want and how to deal with it. Without that, and I was telling Mr. Uhlir and he twisted my words, without it such a law seems like ordinary violence, like breaking over his knee, like transferring responsibility. Sit down and talk. It's not true that protected tenants ultimately want to stay in apartments where they are now, and it's not true that owners want to force it out. If you gave the owners market compensation, they'd give up the apartment. Just as protected tenants would be happy to move out if the state gave them an apartment and we heard that there are tens of thousands of apartments with Mr. Marić. And if you gave them the opportunity to buy that apartment under the same conditions that were worth in 1991, they would move out. So there's no talking about maximum demands. Among other things, there's talk of these lawsuits that, the verdicts that were made in the human rights court, do you know that judgments are made in favour of protected tenants. This is the Constitutional Court's verdict in favour of protected tenants. So you solved the problem of one lawsuit today and in five years you'll have to solve the problem of other lawsuits. Meet therefore the verdicts, all judgments, not one verdict. Meet this problem completely. I will talk about these judgments and some other examples and how this problem should be addressed in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72180	Thank you very much. Here we go with First Honored Representative Ivan Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bunjac. I totally agree when you say it's not true that protected tenants refuse to move there to another location that they... I suppose it is well known to me that in the town of Zagreb there are 2,3 hundred newer apartments in the town of Jelkovec-Sopnica, which stare at the empty, mouse round of water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I ask you, in order to find a solution to help and protected tenants and people to protect private property why the city of Zagreb, do you see one way to solve it because you said and the secretary of state that these data have become obsolete since 2011 and according to that data in Zagreb about 1200 apartments is therefore in that status. I think it must be under a thousand right now. And do you agree with the fact that the state did not, she sent us a bill that had not prepared anything here in the city or that quality solutions, we are specifically talking about the city of Zagreb? And the second question, the second question, is also known to you that every year the state pays about 11 billion kuna for the Kunian part of the public debt, in fact to the total... Now, I've often talked about this funding when it would lower the drastic interest rate we'd have billions of kunas free and this problem could have been solved long ago, this country has allowed its citizens between 50 and 70 billion kunas to be capped by some of my gross estimates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you see in these two segments a drastic reduction of interest on public debt so that the state can also help the problem of apartments in the city of Zagreb that are not rented to anyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72183	Thank you. The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72184	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinović, it is amazing that Croatia has tens of tens and tens of thousands of empty properties and that we create new homeless people day and night. So this clearly shows that there was a disturbance in society and it was a major one. I don't know any kind of living beings on a globe earth that has no home but humans. And we have plenty of space, not to take care of 10,000 people, but to take care of 100 grand. Most importantly, the state has the money to build four thousand new apartments that it wants, not only to give replacement properties, because they, the people who bought out social housing, are still buying them out today, still paying credit rates today. And every month, 3m euros are poured into the budget from the money prescribed by law to be intended, that it must address the issue of how the owners of such protected tenants and other people who need to be compensated. In the next 5 years, for 60 months, the government plans to move towards its cycle of funds to the budget of 180m euros. If the government wanted to, so I repeat once again, the government would have built four thousand new apartments, and if Secretary of State Uhlir had informed us of the real number of protected tenants, we would have seen that this number is probably less than three thousand and that there are no obstacles in the next five years to resolve this issue to the mutual satisfaction of all, to be satisfied and to be satisfied and protected by the tenants and that we all other citizens are finally beginning to gain confidence in the institutions and our country in general, which is at first point the Constitution of the social state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72185	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72186	You're right to warn me it's '91. the year passed Law on the right to buy apartments for those who lived in social property and disabled those who lived in apartments with private property. This led to the first discrimination among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they entered both one and the other apartments well because it simply did not matter if you had an apartment right in the building, in an apartment that was social property or in an apartment that was once private property. This was worth everything except for one man, for one who knew what kind of law would be passed, for Franjo Tudjman, who was given the day before the law came into force, bought such a private-owned apartment and later all the other apartments in that building, so he stayed with the whole building. Now the heirs of political Franjo Tudjman propose a law with other discrimination. Not only did they not have the right to buy a private apartment, which was privately owned, but they will have to get out of it after 5 years. The question that I ask you is that Franjo Tudjman did not buy the apartment the day before the law came into effect what do you think HDZ today would propose a law under which the Franjo Tudjman family would have to go to the field from that apartment after 5 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72187	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72188	Representative Stazic, when we talk about past times, there is one thing that is a huge failure above all Mr. Seks because he did not mention this issue of denationalisation in the Constitution. If there were only one sentence in the Constitution that deals with nationalization, denationalization today would have had much less trouble, and that is the failure of the Constitution. But when you mentioned former President Tudjman, you opened a very good topic because he had the right which few Croatian citizens had in Croatia had, and by doing so, by buying a villa in such a way, to create what we call a Croatian octopus today, he is the father of Croatian corruption, which he turned back in a few decades and, after only a year and a half of power, failed all the ideals on which the Croatian state rested. At that moment, a stampede of grabs began in the HDZ ranks that did not stop until today. And that's your biggest criminal gentlemen from HDZ, your long fingers. You may not be the bad people individually, I'm not even saying you're uneducated, but in general looking in this direction that your first president gave you on the wrong path. And that grab will not stop and that corruption for as long as you are in power, never and as long as you are able to participate in power. And on the other hand, it would be best for you to stop embarrassing yourself with this law because of some late crisis of conscience and to put things back to the beginning where the problem started and to solve this problem in a just way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72189	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72190	I thank you even though we are now with this, this last replica and the last answer, we have come to the problem of the original accumulation of capital and that capital is possible if all that social value that was created in the previous period is evenly and justly distributed. This social value is also created, what we gave up on, we gave up denying human freedoms and denying political freedoms, but we did not give up on the fair division of that social capital and social values that are constantly developing. I'm saying this precisely because it's not a historic debate, but to realize that all rights are being developed in a historical and social context and that this historical context is not always the same. The historical context of the then protected tenants was once the historical context of the tenant's rights and this right was an inheritance right and was not related to the property. We also have today the verdict that you mentioned, that is the judgment of Statileo, and we can read the current social context here, and that is the context in which we should also care about the rights of protected tenants and not just about the rights of owners. And I think that the starting point of justice should be to keep protected tenants in their apartments and the end point or the end point, which is that, based on this institute of former tenant rights, to enable protected tenants to buy a replacement apartment. Only then do we achieve the ideal of righteousness, only then do we respect the right to property but also the right to a home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72191	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72192	Thank you very much. Representative Vučetic, I must say that I agree with your comment, there are conditions to implement a solution that will satisfy both sides, indeed exist. Claiming that the protected tenants are guilty of being found in the apartments they are in is not true. They did not write laws, nor did they make political decisions. I mentioned the lady who was taken from the house in 1985. And she was given that apartment. And what could she choose? How could she have known? She accepted anything just so she wouldn't end up on the street. What are you talking about today? It is said that she is some kind of liker and was actually a victim just like the victims of those whose dwellings were confiscated, nationalized during the postwar period, etc. So let's go make a solution that won't have tails, especially that won't cause any new lawsuits. So I repeat once again, the protected tenants will also press charges and some have already received them and that will be a problem that will continue to increase exponentially, expand and create a very bad climate in society. Why are we instigating a conflict between the two social groups? I'm sure those people with the state's mediation, sitting at the same table, would agree much better than here at the political party's Parliament. But that's not what you want. Here he just wants to wash his hands like Pontius Pilate and say I have nothing to do with it, and you deal with who lives, who dies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72193	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72194	Dear Representative Bunjac, State Secretary Uhlir said, unfortunately, he is now missing, that the law cannot be applied differently or that all owners should be returned in the same way and that there should be no difference between those purchasers of apartments and original owners and their successors. However, he forgets Secretary Uhlir that before '90. There was only one household right, that there was no difference between those who lived in social housing and those who lived in private apartments. However, it is precisely the law of this country that these people are placed in an unequal position, before the law, and ultimately this inequality and discrimination will lead them to dissuade. I'm sorry that the ruling majority doesn't see what you're trying to point out to them, that they're blind to your arguments and the most paradoxical of all is the calling that property should be returned to the owners, that others can't be taken for themselves. However, it was the HDZ gentlemen who created this government, who created these laws, who did this in the '90s, who took what was ours and who became theirs and left the people containers, left them with the errands, and now they're pushing them out into the street. This is one big civilization shame and this can unfortunately stop the people in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72195	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72196	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, yes, we have in Croatia a disease that spreads at high speed and it is called syncope. Namely, the treaty on the issues of succession of the countries in the former Socialist Federation Yugoslavia was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2004. So that's exactly where we're discussing right now, the concession agreement has been adopted. The Annex g, to the Treaty of Succession, clearly states that they must be recognised, returned and protected by all rights which the citizens had on movable and immovable property on 31.12.1990 and that any transfer of rights to movable and immovable property made after that date and concluded by force is void. This is the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. This was not invented by the Living Wall or invented by the Most because there was no us at the time, but brought by the parties that had governments and which today in this House are made up by the majority. So read what you raised your hand for, not so long ago, I believe that and then you, Mr. Rainer, were in the Parliament and voted for it. There was no change in the situation after 31.12.1990. If you gave rights to social housing owners who were in the same legal status as protected tenants, then that, the end of the story, is over. You should respect that. But unfortunately it is all forgotten here, now Mr. Stromar has come, what he knows about it, he is minding his own business, he needs to make quick some law to conclude, send to the Parliament to adopt and he will continue to do his work concerning building land and I don't know what other things that are much more interesting to him, of course, from his personal interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72197	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I think you've had a very good discussion and you've very detailedly explained both sides and how complicated this problem is. I have to admit that the answer that we've all actually said even from the HDZ Club that we have very little data or that the 2011 data and our inquiry as to why there's no fresh data says so we need to do a census and 120 million kunas are moments to do so. Watch your answer. 120 million is a census. And this problem has caused it, we're all aware, caused by the state, right? What else are we aware of? There is a problem in a private company, the government appoints a commissioner and within a few months, the commissioner invites up to 6,000 suppliers, so everyone comes with their list of what is due, etc., within 6 months everything is known until the last June as much as anyone owes. And here you're calling 120 million is a census to determine, and you've said very well here, out of 13,000, so 3,000, 2,000 that the state can't now invite these people and say very clearly how much and for a mutual solution, to the mutual satisfaction of one and the other finds more than these 47 million kunas as predicted by 2000, I don't know, there in ten years. You see how inconclusively accessing this one problem is and I think that in your debate that was very good and one and the other side we heard here, so nobody was favored, but that way... the census should be resolved these 2000, and one commissioner within 6 months of the list, all claims will be determined and said that this settlement will be settled. Look, this country when it's mixed up in private property can do it within six months, and here the country that caused this problem you see that it can't bring a few thousand people, write down, but I'm just showing that this part isn't a well-produced analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72199	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72200	Thank you very much. Well, well-respected Lalovac. The problem is that here we're interested in Knighthead, the problem is that the American Embassy didn't intervene on this issue, is that they intervened then it would add up if it were to be day and night. I wonder what the State Statistics Service is for if it's not able to count 3,000 apartments for a few months and list those tenants? How can the DZS publish every month the number of newborns, the number of deaths, the number of employees, the unemployed, the pensioners, how it can calculate GDP growth, and not be able to take the 2011 census and count 3,000 apartments because the number of protected tenants has certainly not increased, so it was only smaller and that is it. Here, Mr. Uhlir, I'm glad you came, I hope you rest from the debate, I'll make you a personal assessment of this data for 120,000 kuna, here instead of $120 million, I promise you that within 60 days for 120,000 kuna, I will make sure that you poor people don't suffer and your state-run arrest agencies are receiving hundreds of millions of kuna from the budget, and they can't count 3,000 apartments. Well, that's who at cave age I can't count to 3,000. So your arguments are very inhuman. They show one extreme incompetence. You're actually satisfied with what you're sitting here for, that's the purpose of your job. The important thing is that I'm here, that the pay goes, and how the problems are going to be solved is that we'll see in 2023, 2028 when we need to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72201	Comrade Bunjac, you should respond to the replica of your colleague, Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72202	Well, sir, it's nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72203	Well, that doesn't matter. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72204	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you're right when you say both the tenants and the tenants are damaged in this case. Both of them experience the torments of Tantalus, not by their own fault but by the guilt of one system of wrong bad laws, adjusted only for one time and one population where someone in his time thought he was right to be stronger and that his laws were more just than they had taken away from the legal owner of real estate and other funds. So he's the only one who's right, the right law, the right to take away something more powerful than anyone else's, kidnapped, cursed. Most of the things taken away were taken away not in a beautiful and decent way but in a violent way. 90% of all cases that have lost who knows where they ended up and how they ended up with Sljemen, Bezovica, Bleiburg, who knows where the real owners ended up to enjoy what isn't his. And this one purposed to leave to his descendants what he had not earned, to create, and to take away the offspring of those who had shed sweat for what they had earned. I understand both of us with a time-out and watching from today that, when we're all courteous, cultural, nice and empathyal, but imagine a causal relationship that is, one system, totalitarianism, for a time without authority, powerlessness and tyrants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72205	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72206	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Culey. I'm glad you agree that both sides are damaged. Taking away other people's property, so it's a violation of the most elemental human rights, so it's been found in the 18th century that private property is inalienable, and now in the 21st century we have to deal with this issue with such a huge backlog. But when we talk about those who took something that others had created, there were ninety years of people who had taken from zero kunas in their pocket factories, taking the companies that others had created, who I don't know became billionaires while hundreds of thousands of workers who created companies stayed on the street. I'm talking about time of conversion and privatisation, so how did some people become owners, in what way? And now the same ones who have either become illegal owners or who have allowed these people to become illegal owners, so tycoons, now they moralize and say, see how these communists allowed someone else to take something else's. Then let's do this, and let's take away all these factories and all those companies to those who didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72207	Comrade Bunjac, we're talking about the House Rent Act. Please, let's narrow down on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72208	So let's talk about how someone took what they didn't create, someone took what they didn't create. And I remind you, they were different Gucci, the corners, the bosses, the Rice, and I don't know, etc. who suddenly became the richest people in Southeast Europe. Whose property did they acquire? Whose opunistic likeness were they? What group? Don't turn things into an ideological story now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72209	The next replica of the respected representative Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, almost every sentence of yours I sign, I'd just like to detail the matter a little bit. So, really damaged are both the boys and the tenants, it's just a big difference. The tenants have been damaged before, and this law will primarily damage the tenants and should be made clear. So one injustice that was done earlier is now trying to correct a new law that seems to be another injustice, which will result in a bunch of disputes. Why? So that's why you're right when you say that this problem is not so trivial and simple that it's possible and easy to solve it simply because this is a simple solution, there is no easy solution for complex problems. I'm sorry, it doesn't exist. The story needs to be analysed to the end, in detail, 3,000 and some cases and provided more variations and more possibilities to solve this and in a simple way. There's no easy solution to such complex problems, believe it, and this previous government and those governments before it would solve it, it's a key message. And one more thing, without State interference, this problem will not be solved in a fair way. It means more variations with the support of a country that will damage either the tenant or the tenant. In this case, this law only protects the tenant and leaves the tenant in the middle of the street. There is, as the law says here, 9,000 of our Croatian citizens. He leaves in 5 or 10 years on the street. And it needs to be understood and returned 1, 2, 3 steps back and looking for a better, fairer solution to this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72211	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72212	Thank you very much. Mr. Greek, you're absolutely right, so that one injustice corrects another, that doesn't make sense. So there's no point in bringing one man back to life and killing another man, it's just that these two men should stay alive, that would be the right thing to do. And the protected tenants are absolutely dissatisfied with this bill. So absolutely. I don't know a single 9000-year-old protected tenant who's satisfied with this bill. Well, that should already be some kind of alarm for us fellow MPs here, let's say wait a minute, if people are completely unsatisfactory, at 100%, then something with the law isn't right, then that law is unfair. And we really should all sit down, we have a number of examples, I listed Agrokor, there are some other committees, etc., so let's find a solution. The state has very much at its disposal, here's Mr. Uhlir now said a day ago in a board session of what the state is to build apartments for Croatian defenders, we'll build it without a problem. I remind you of where the churches were assigned replacement apartments. So you can do anything whenever you want. I don't want to offend anyone's suffering, I don't want to devalue anyone's right to have his own home, though, I encourage him, but this is about people being thrown out into the street. Please, Mr. Uhlir, I know you're the HNS, get the program you voted against last year, so you suddenly turned to him, and there's a clear record there that the government is going to fight action and you've just passed them by this law that you've now passed to the Parliament, norms. You're the one who's standardized the mirage. People will be thrown out into the streets. And you know what's gonna happen then? Then there's only one left, there's a living wall, there's no other solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72213	Thank you very much. We'll take a 10-minute break then we'll see each other at 15 and 55. It's 3:45 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72215	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us in the first reading of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on renting apartments. If it were a simple problem, if it could simply be solved then it would not have occurred in Parliament's procedure in 2018, it would have already been settled. Equally so that one law can solve all justice and injustice is not possible. So in Croatia live people who have invested their entire working life in a housing fund and have not had the opportunity to get anything from that housing fund. So we have all kinds of cases. And that's why it's good to concentrate in this law on the subject of this law as a topic. The property is unquestionable, it is unquestionable that the owners of these apartments are owners. It is unquestionable that the courts judge in a way, so I am talking about EU courts, judge in a way that property is unquestionable, not only Statileo, which is listed here, we also have a Berger-Krol theme of Slovenia, we also have Chapska v. Poland, we also have Bito v. Slovakia. How was it meant to be? It was tried in a way that not only did the owners have the right to compensation for their property but also for reduced profits because they could not manage their property. Who was responsible for that? State. And now we're in a situation where all the time there's a barata that's the number of apartments, all the time it's been known to be somewhere between 2.5 and 3000 apartments. It's a problem that you can't solve with an axe if it can be solved with an axe it would be solved. The owners of their dwellings, for they are undisputed, protected by the tenants outside, and as they will be. This can't be solved and we must be aware that such a solution is absolutely not possible. There's always a little bit of history that's been going on. When it was brought in in '91. Then 90% of the funds from these apartment sales went to local self-government units, 10% of the state, and among other things, local self-government units were in principle cities because they were going to live in cities from those 90%, which they had to deprive the tenants or deprive the owners and everything else. Some have solved it, some have not. Then the amendment to the law was there in '95. 55% went to the state budget and 45% to local self-government units. What do we have at this point? We have owners who are a little less or a little more patient or impatient, but who at some point will actually be able to use their real estate. The question is, what is this moment? We have protected tenants who feel that the citizens of the second row are because the question is whether the citizens of the second row in Croatia are those who did not have a tenant right, who have lost their property, who should have continued, so there is a right or wrong to say. In 2013, we have 13185 apartments owned by cities, we have that those who should have solved this problem, and these are cities being made very foreign and leave the problem to the state. In the term of office where I was a minister, I received all the associations, I even insisted that associations that had some opposite points of view take them together. We had in public debate one law in 2013 and the second law in 2014 this law which was in 2014 I asked two, then they were MPs, one was the case that there was that the owner who couldn't get to his property because he had a protected tenant, the other case was that he was the tenant so I said read the law and see how acceptable he was. And at that point, it was kind of a consensus that it might be acceptable, but as some years of election came to us by 2015, but it doesn't take for a spilled milk poster because the situations are quite different now than they were then. The theme is you have all possible cases, you have a case that is a protected tenant in your apartment, and there are two, three other properties, a cottage, an apartment, a house and it's written on your father-in-law, your mother-in-law and everything else. You have cases that the owner is a tenant, and he can't reach his property, the tenant, and he can't reach his property. You have cases and associations that are ready for the solution they say, let's offer some solution to how much we can solve our problem. You have associations that are extreme that say, we want to buy under the same conditions exactly that apartment. And what they need to know is, I can't buy that apartment because it's property. So that's where it comes in now, and that's where we come into the role of the state. The state was looking at the side of what was going on, the state was in '96. For years, she passed a law without knowing how she would handle it. The state left it to municipalities and cities so she said give it a try from that money you have to solve it. You have cities that have solved it, and you have cities that are not. He didn't solve Zagreb, he didn't solve Split, he didn't solve Dubrovnik, these other cities solved the problem more or less. And now what do you do and how do you do? If there was a magic wand, if there was a solution that could satisfy both, there wouldn't be. At one point I was there, and when I asked the secretary of state at the start, it was dealing with 13,000 apartments in that status. Now somewhere between 2.5 and 3000, I think the real assessment is about 2.5. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile someone solved the problem with their owner, one of my friends who was in that situation had split the apartment in half so half she arranged for the owner, she stayed in this other half. You have cases that actually solved life. It's about the old population, people died and owners, so you have the courts, all the courts in Croatia judge in a way that property is returned to the owner, protected tenants are coming out. If the government has decided to solve this problem that's not a simple problem, you've seen how many emails you've all received, you've seen how much you've talked to you, you've seen how many people have spoken to you. The owners came to me who said they were paying more for a reservation for the apartment than they were getting for the rent. I've been visited by protected tenants who said they were born in that apartment, that they invested in that apartment more than the value of the apartment. You've got everything. I was asked by one of our fellow parliamentary representatives who you are, for the owners or for the tenants. I said I'm about to try to solve the problem with the least damage, the least damage to those people, but the state has to solve it, so I won't use an ugly word, the state has to say at some point we have to reach the state budget and we need to help and try to see how it works with the least damage to those people. You see, there's no day in one of the media, in one of the journals, no matter what television is and what I'm happy to show equally, show owners and show tenants, you have one lady who said, if it's true, the house owned we gave for the apartment, I was born in that apartment, it's about an apartment downtown and I'd love to be in that apartment and I'd die. So you have a series, a series of cases, you have those associations that say you offer some replacement apartment, let's solve that problem because it's really a problem that's both on the one hand and on the other. The solution that was held in the public debate in 2013, and then in 2014, which a large number of associations said could be acceptable, so in the association are organised people whose life problem, who are watching us now, listen, watch what happens, and we absolutely need to take care of it, they said, then there were solutions in two ways. The whole solution went in a way to include cities, which is why I mention this information in 2013 the cities had 13185 apartments and the solution was to give in one part a serious grant for the purchase of property to people who were protected by the rent, and those who were not ready to be offered rental apartments owned by states, which unit of local self-government, which then POS opened up the lease and then they were rented and decided over a number of years whether to buy that property or not. Why this solution did not develop a solution further and give up, the proposer will probably tell us at some point. So through this debate, I'd like to spend it all together. So we don't have that dilemma, the owner owns it. About how someone became the owner, about someone buying an apartment with a protected tenant, that's something someone else should do. We can't deal with these cases through this law, so moreover, in one of the first provisions, it says this applies only to the relationship between protected tenants and employers with the date of November 5, '96. Someone went and there's talk of different people, those who bought it were buying at risk. So we have no dilemmas here, anyone who will sue the Republic of Croatia since these are already other countries I deliberately listed both Poland and Slovakia and Slovenia past, we will lose it and we know that we are losing and we will lose and the question is what we will pay as a state from the budget. If we know that, is it not a much better model to try to solve at this point in one of the most acceptable ways together with the units of local self-government, so the state plus the cities that have apartments and we know that we have, there is also a state, that protected tenants are offered a replacement apartment at a certain time, that they can buy it out in a way that a large subsidy or those who do not stay in relation to them today in relation to the rent or that they will be bought out of that property. In doing so, there is no fair way, there is no justice or guilt, they absolutely have the right to put their entire working life into a residential fund, and they have made their own house and live in their own house, and what about me, give me back my money from the housing fund that I invested. Imagine that the state, I'm up there now because I've been having a little discussion, imagine that the state of Croatia is there in '91, '92, we all know what the situation was then said we owners of all the apartments in which you had tenants' rights, these apartments we have, now I'm going to drum up the number, let's say 300 grand, everyone who had a tenancy right in those apartments is asking nicely that within a year we're owners, the state is the owner and that 300 thousand apartments we're going to make a public call and those who want to buy at certain prices to buy. The state of Croatia did not do so and clearly did not, it offered to the people who live inside to buy it from it as the owner. Similarly, those who were able to resolve the relationship between protected tenants and owners have solved it, are those who cannot solve it and who cannot solve it. In conclusion, the problem is extremely complex. You've seen how many e-mails you've received yourself, each case is a different case. I've really seen many of them forever. I also saw a case where a protected tenant lives in an excellent apartment in downtown Dubrovnik and there are two, three other properties that he has written over to someone else in the meantime so that it can't be seen that he has these properties and the owner lives together with the parents for three generations. So there's everything, there's cases where, where the owner of the property was blackmailing, breaking down the roof, breaking down the door. So there's everything because people are different, look at us here 151, not only are we different by our looks, by our origins, by our loved ones, so these are different cases. We have come to the conclusion that either one legal proposal will try to resolve it with the least damage and the damage will always be or we will let time resolve as it has been so far so that in 10 or 20 years, the figure will be significantly less because nature will do its part and maybe nature will solve it itself. This is a serious, really serious situation, it is that we should listen carefully to these discussions and perhaps try some of the suggestions to further elaborate. I'll end the debate even though it might be so, but no one's gonna get me wrong. I had a colleague who watched the paper every morning and watched the obituaries. I was a young engineer. I ask her, so why do you do it every morning? She says, you have no idea how many things I've solved like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72216	Mrs. Anka-Taritash, the weather is inexorable. And I don't know that we're just gonna wait for that to work out. You have a lot of replicas for that, so you'll be able to complete yourself. The first replica is Mr Batinić and the first line has Mr Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72217	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you have experience and thematics and problems more than you understand well. However, in 1998, the Constitutional Court decided when the existing law intervened. Why am I saying that? Namely, when you told the court to rule, the property owners, the tenants on the street. Well, my replica is going to your hearing right now and I see the secretary of state is listening, and I didn't find it in detail in the law. Perhaps even in the transitional and final provisions until the second reading, one moment to install the items that have been launched in this period under the old law, to be completed under the new law because it will be one, it will be the greatest protection of protected tenants. Because if certain court proceedings happen today, tomorrow, someone starts the day after tomorrow, and if it doesn't fit into the bill, the protected tenants will end up on the street. That's one thing. Secondly, you said various suggestions, yes, I believe it will be and that you will come up with certain proposals, whether it's one, two, three, five ways, but more than five, I don't think there would be a productive way to solve it, given the various situations you mentioned in your debate. So here's a clean and appeal to you, knowing you're constructive, not to debate populistly, to try your experience and knowledge as a minister to give some concrete, to suggest some concrete solutions given the knowledge of matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72218	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72219	Thank you very much. My colleague Batinić, I said at the beginning that it was simply not welcome in 2018 and it is not simple and it is extremely difficult. And you can't even do it without emotion when you listen to all those sides. I even insisted in one meeting that the most extreme on the one hand come and try to see what the solution is. Indeed, between the first and second readings, this law has earned our maximum activity. It's no problem, I'll be very happy to mail and clubs and send to the Ministry's mail, there shouldn't be 5 variants, you need two variants or possibly three, and that's quite enough to see if that's acceptable and if that's possible. So we have a situation and we don't need to forget it at any time, so we have owners and they own these apartments. And no one can force them, like they can't force you or me to sell my apartment or that I, I own that apartment and I know that I will still own that apartment. Protected tenants, I also understand their emotions, someone who grew up in that apartment, who invested in that apartment, so I deliberately spoke these extreme cases. There won't be another, the state will have to try and offer a solution and there won't be, at least, a stepmother, so to speak, you know. There is no ideal solution, so be the least stepmom in all this because someone who grew up in an apartment thinks he's home, but he also knows that it's not his apartment, that he's not, that he owns another apartment. There was also a case where two apartments owned by small ones because they agreed with and entered into ownership and today is a protected tenant. And what's the problem? It's always a problem for you that the majority of these apartments are still, a lot of large apartments are in good locations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72220	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Hrelja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72221	Dear colleagues, it is complex and certain that the preparation of this law through both public debate and through facts, therefore in the opening part, is not good enough. But it's hard to be completely neutral and I mean, I'd try to shed light on a situation. Whether it is indisputable for you that owners will come into possession of their property sooner or later because they have the inheritance right and they will eventually or they or their heirs come into possession of their apartment, their house, etc. And those famous '96s, those who had until then had a tenant right, were given the right to hope through a protected tenant institute. Is the protected tenant time-limited or are we now trying to time-limit it, speed it up? To be clear, I agree with anything else, I agree with the same thing that part of the owner gets neatly and buys a state apartment, one part is still a tenant like you said, so he bought a state apartment and now he's looking for his property, the other one couldn't have anything and the general approach with the solution "in silk" simply doesn't go. But it is unquestionable, it is certainly unquestionable under the existing legal regulations and without the acceleration proposed by this law, the owners will come or their heirs in possession of the apartment because it is an inheritance right which is not a protected tenant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72223	Comrade Hrelj, you've put a few issues here. So, me and that's what I said in my debate, a colleague of mine asked me who you were for, and I'm about to try the least damage to solve the problem, for that I am. So imagine the owner who owns his own apartment going neatly to his apartment every day, while if you have to work the roof, he as the owner must invest in the roof, if you need to work the facade, he as the owner needs a facade. He has to pay the reserve if it's an accident that he doesn't pay the reservation, he'll sit down. And he's neatly looking at his real estate and, of course, he's going out on his ears like she would go to any of us. On the other hand, someone who was born in that apartment, who invested in that apartment. So there's no fair solution. I wouldn't agree with you, so there was a hill of analysis. There's been a series of analysis. My colleague Uhlir is deliberately talking about 2011 because it's the only information that has official data, this all other data has not been verified because to check it out you have to go to the apartment, none of us have entered the apartment. There have been public calls over all the newspapers, 24 hours, evening, morning, let's know we know what it is. We asked the associations to give us information. You know how much data was collected that way? 845. As I remember today, so we did that in 2013 and 2014, we got that information. And of course you're using a conservative dog method says I'm going to use what the statistics say. I personally think it's around 2500, but it's from the sleeve, so Dr. Rukavin said from the sleeve according to what I think, I think it's about 2500. The court told us the owner has the right to come to his apartment and he did not say how to deal with it, said Croatia, solve your problem of protected tenants, owners are right. And now the government is trying to find a model.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72224	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72225	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Anka Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned the role of the state in your presentation among other things. I would say that the role of the state in this process that has been going on for a long time is double but unfortunately always negative. On the one hand the property of the owners of the dwellings has been taken away because they cannot afford, they are not in possession and the property is an important feature of ownership, and on the other hand it has led people astray and given them some right that is not right. So a protected tenant is basically not a right. I find it inadmissible to smoke you as a former minister and now your followers say you're dealing with 13,000 apartments, and now they're processing 3,000 apartments, so the entire state apparatus is unable to determine how many of those apartments are there. It's also a big, big problem for this country if that's true. And the third thing, that problem was caused exclusively by the state. It was caused by apartment owners, and it doesn't matter if they bought another social apartment or if they didn't buy another social apartment. As does not matter for protected tenants whether they bought some real estate in the meantime or did not buy real estate in the meantime. They were at that very apartment for a while. They had a tenant right. All the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could have realised it, they couldn't have realized it. So let's let those stories go, let's look at what's right, what's right. You said there's no guilt or justice here. There's both guilt and justice. So, justly, by respecting property, to allow people or to deprive the current protected tenant or to be defiled by the owner in case he wants to sell that apartment. This law is unfortunately no solution, this law will produce a number of injustices.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72226	Thank you, 15 seconds too much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72227	My colleague, everyone hears someone say what they want to hear, so you've only heard the part you wanted to hear. In 2003, one law was under discussion, and at that time they were parliamentary representatives as they were in everything for this term, I would not dare say, but in all the mandates that were both. And at that time, a parliamentary representative who had a protected tenant said, there was no political will to get rid of it. It takes political will to get rid of everything. We're all talking about this law and we're talking about a solution that's not good, that needs to be improved. So I think it's the role of all of us to try to give, to contribute to improving this solution and to see what happens next, or to say that as a state, we will be dying. You know, if you're staring hard enough, you're still covered with soap on your head, some things are solved by themselves. And here, the main thing was to solve things in itself. It was left to protect the tenants and negotiate with their owners. Those who were able to agree had agreed, so they ran around the price, so the rest is that, the state left that and now this last part remains and the question is that we will continue to close our eyes and try to find a solution. I'm sure there will be demands before the Constitutional Court and everything else. But what I had the impression, and I had the impression that protected tenants, so you have those extreme, but protected tenants would somehow be to try out some kind of solution that we sleep peacefully too. Try some sort of solution, and that's why I'm talking about these two subsidies that they can buy some real estate, and they'll only buy this one if the owner sells. Well, you can't buy something from me that I don't want to sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72228	Thank you, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72229	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. In your statement, you said that this law is not fair for both former and current tenants, and it is not good for the owners of the dwellings, that there are judicial rulings and that it is ultimately not good for the state and that the state on that basis is an interested party, but not just a state because the obligations paid through court rulings by taxpayers who fill the state budget. And therefore, she should be interested in solving this problem in a way that is as satisfying as possible, or property is uncut by our Constitution and owners of apartments and buildings, but to protect protected ten-year-olds from going to the street for five or ten years, and on the other hand to solve the state of unnecessary costs. And it's strange to see that everyone here today comes to the Parliament of more than 300 or more people to come here in such a storm and make noises against this bill, and then not to have a minister come to us and not to answer those people how they're going to get rid of their rights, their right to a home, the right to a safe life worthy of man, the owners to have their property that they've been wanting back in their property and the state to cut costs. You said it nicely, everything can be done by dialogue and by the role of the state, without it going, and I suggest that the state through state dwellings and cities, through apartments owned to find a model of how to solve protected tenants because I don't see another model or else we're going to make an even greater injustice again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72230	Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72231	Thank you very much for the replica. Can I answer something I didn't say in my presentation? So the resolution minister comes to the Parliament for at least two reasons. One reason is because he cares about the proposal that is behind him and wants to defend him in the Assembly, and another reason is to show that he appreciates parliamentary representatives and appreciates what parliamentary deputies will say and I said so on several occasions and I say so this time. So if the minister doesn't have two reasons, you have only two reasons, or he's not sure about the proposal he sent to the parliamentary procedure so let him be defended by the secretary of state so as to be or not appreciate what the MPs are going to say, and now let him evaluate what he has to say and what the subject is. So back on the subject of the law, it's really not easy. I'm the last one to say that the government where the HDZ and HNS partners are and that I'd like to go and commend anything. I, in this sense, praise the courage and in a certain way the decision to take this law has taken place in the parliamentary procedure. We can be dissatisfied with the solutions, we can point out that the solution is not good, but we certainly need to make a suggestion as to how we think the solution can be improved, that then we have a chance if we don't say you didn't do it and that's so good. This is one of those laws that minimum should go into two readings, it's a sensitive problem, it's about human destiny, it's about you wanting to not introduce emotion. As I've talked about it a lot and talked a lot, you can't believe how many people are still coming to me, as far as I have, I guess I have a meter of all possible options, so I was deliberately talking about both sides and the other side. That state as a mediator is involved and finds the least possible bad solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72232	Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mrak-Taritash, you've well rated that there's both sides damaged and there's no telling which side is more. One of the influences of the state has been given to using something that is not their property. I think it's their consciousness that we should think about it all the time we get it. Cat in a bag, privileged lease, and on the other hand the owner who was damaged in the lease in the ability to manage the property and everyone else. And I think it's really high time to break up. The question is, how many years did these torments of owners who couldn't manage their properties last? On average, I've been thinking about 60 years or 55 years, depending on what apartments. And I think there really was an injustice against the owners, although on the other hand it was meant to help those who were moved into apartments under various circumstances. This should end and we believe that it is the state that is responsible in a particular system for such behaviour and behaviour. By making decisions about... in the extreme by not ensuring afterwards the construction of broken houses, for example, or apartments that were killed in a fire or something else, the various circumstances as many as they could read emails were and that affected it. But today it really needs to be stopped and the very consciousness of those who have protected the tenants should be that they have paid minimally throughout this time and used maximum. Because if 60 and some squares to 95 squares is the average size of the apartment And if teachers are using it, it's a real historical injustice. [[Intruding Radin: Thank you Mr. Djakic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72234	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72235	My colleague Djakic, as I said in his presentation, has no easy solution. You know, you have those protected tenants that are 50, 60 and over, who invested in their real estate, or theirs, who invested in that property they were in. And there's no, I mean no, there's a solution to be least, with the least of the damage. That's the only solution. Imagine a large number of our fellow citizens who spent their entire working life in a housing fund, built their own house in which they lived and did not have the opportunity to buy, not have had the right to rent, so they did not have the opportunity to buy an apartment. In my family, neither my parents nor my husband nor I, nor his parents were anyone in any social property, but it was all private property. On the one hand, it's a comedy, on the other hand, you don't get a chance like someone else and they invest in a housing fund all the time. So you can't have it here, the solution is simple. I said you didn't need an axe, then a colleague of the Hrelja answered with an ax in silk. The silk is usually best cut by a sharp blade knife. I don't think the axe model or the knife model is good because it's always where someone gets hurt. It's come, obviously it's time to face that fact and try to work it out. I was on purpose, I didn't. I talked very little about the judgment that was Statileo. I was talking about Bitto's judgment. It was the judgment of the Beto family against Slovakia, where that family, they had. These are countries that had approximately the same cases. The state had to not only damage property, but compensate for all these years where someone owned it couldn't be. So there to try to find the least possible damage and the most reasonable variant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72236	Thank you. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72237	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, I have listened to your report, but I agree much with you, but there are different fates. Of course there are now, but there's only one truth about these people being damaged and their property being taken. That's true. There's no two truths. How to resolve these other fates that sat for 60, 70 years in one apartment, inherited by their children or grandchildren, does not matter. You say and they were born inside, yes. But imagine those times when those same people, those same kids, the same ones came out of those apartments who cared about them where they'd live and how they'd live. The decree was this is ours. No, gentlemen, you see, there is a God, God has made Communism fall. The time has come to say gentlemen has changed. We don't want to throw you out on the streets today, but we want to help you be like people in some apartments, so I suggest that the state take some of those people's apartments and throw them off the streets, but that property is returned to the people they've kidnapped that communist party that thinks this is ours. Just like he just said to kidnap ours. I have nothing, ours knows what is ours, what is mine, what is yours, what is someone's. It's our sea, it's our land, but we know whose property it is. It's not ours. It's ours. It's ours. It's ours. And these people who are in other people's apartments today were deceived by their grandfather or father who didn't say how he got it, in what way he inherited that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72238	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72239	My colleague Misic, I was deliberately saying that we should try to see the size of this problem. It's undeniable that it's someone's property. When we were in the public debate in 2013 and then in 2014 with that law then of course it is always, you must have the political will to move on. So without it, he can't even attend a plenary session. Then, then they started writing in the paper that actually, it was a little different. So it was a different solution than it is now, even though I now had a chance to hear somewhere and it said that this solution was more acceptable to them than today, but you don't cry for spilled milk. And then protected tenants' associations were extremely exceptional, so they were sundials in the paper, by all means. And I've said to one of the owners' associations, so why can't you hear or see? And then they say, look, we know it's ours, we know that one day we'll get it. We're already here and we're lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and everything and my father said and I don't know and he cried, he didn't cry or I don't know everything that happened. We'll get that someday. We just have to be patient and wait or we'll get either us or our children. And so are those who are in those apartments and who know. So what must be absolutely clear to protected tenants, and what one association does not want to accept. They want to buy those very apartments under the conditions that they were for when they went to buy out a tenant's right. And it must be clear to them that it is impossible. The role of the state is to offer them some other real estate, some other apartment, that they can live decently in that apartment, that perhaps by subsidising the other apartment they can buy or stay in that other apartment in some status is not a protected tenant, but a tenant with some kind of rent that is acceptable. And that's just the way it is, there won't be another solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72240	Thank you. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72241	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mrak Taritas. A good minister chooses his associates and I think that Mr. Uhlir is a good secretary of state who has worked hard and today has been answering all the questions of us MPs all day, and there shouldn't be any major objections, you've been a minister for four years, and you could have proposed this law. You didn't suggest it. Perhaps you've calculated as well as others before you. And I understand that, because it's two major opposing sides. What you were saying in your debate I will try to indicate in some lines, although Mr. Misic said it very well on one side. On the other hand, the owner, when buying something, pays a real estate tax, and registers in the garland as the owner, there is no dispute and you are on two, three occasions and emphasized such things about the owners. But when you talked about most of the apartments where the state could give one of the solutions to the replacement apartment. I will tell you according to the data that we have, so the location of these apartments is in the narrowst centres of the large cities, for example in Ban Jelačić Square and around the Jelačić Ban, in Split in Marmontovo, Bačvica where the most popular parts of that town are today the square meter of that apartment is about three thousand euros, and the protected tenants paid about two, two and a half kuna per square. And you also said that some people paid a bigger reserve than the rent of an apartment. So that's where you should be very careful when you talk about these things. I agree that when the state has already dealt with this, it needs to be done and protected by both sides, as much as possible. However, we would not really do so with this bill, and it is a good thing that it is in the first reading, not by correcting one injustice, we should make an even greater injustice. But when we talk about the owners of the apartments, we're here with a little bit of a delay, and so are you, and when we talk about protected tenements, then we need to look at it with a special empathy and I don't think we're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72242	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72243	Thank you very much. Let me start from the beginning. Comrade Babic, you have every right to think that I was a bad minister who didn't do the job or choose the bad associates, absolutely I have no doubt that you have the right to discuss it and discuss it in this way. When it comes to owners, I have no dilemmas, I really don't have dilemmas, the owners own their apartments. Protected tenants are located in these apartments under different conditions and in different ways and they knew they were owned by someone. Now we're in a situation where the state was staring at it, and it was staring at the moment it was '96. In the year she passed this law, '96 when this law was passed I think that on November 5th, it was the status of tenant rights for some turned into protected tenants, not for all, some had already had. So there's as many tenants here as there are now, there are so many cases. But the role of the state is to take care of its citizens, the method in which the state says I don't care, after five years you'll go on the road or after ten years you'll go on the road, so what happens to you is not a good country. The state has to offer some model for these situations and for these variants. I said on purpose, imagine a state that would say there in '91, '92. I own all the apartments, everyone who has tenants' rights out, and I'm gonna give it to a public tender, so whoever offers more will buy that apartment. Well, I mean, I checked it out to see how far it could go in cartoons. So I repeat, I don't know how many times, the owners are owners, and there are different cases. This law actually needs to offer a model for protected tenants who are somehow social, although there are no fellow Stiers but I must say that regardless of what I believe to be a liberal, but offer some model of human dignity to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72244	And finally, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we all agreed that this is a complex problem. Here's an illustration, I remember when the President of the Parliament was Mr. Luka Bebić, so it was a radio show run by Sanja Raguzin Pavić with the President of the Parliament and every time Mr. Bebic was on that radio show it was always a question of protected tenants. What I must point out and it seems to me that most speakers today agree with this finding that this legal solution is also not fair and not sustainable. We have all received a whole series of letters, e-mails, phone calls, people called both owners and tenants and what we must loudly and clearly say that the right to a home and a roof above the head is a fundamental human right and the right to ownership, and one and the other rights are protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Also, what is very important, protected tenants tell us that they do not want to be confronted with the owners to create enemies of one another. They want this problem to solve whoever created it, and that's the state and that's the key. It's a key message for most of us here today asking that the state actually offer a fair and just solution. And it can't be cut with an axe, there are so many different life stories within these 3740 households. I got a letter that really impressed me, it's about a dipl.ing, an electrician retired with a pension of 3100 kuna, a father of two children, a single father, and he's just asking the state to solve this the most just way. And what's illustrative in his case so the owner of the apartment where he lives has actually got three apartments, and he'll stay on the road for five years and wonders, am I really three times less valuable than my apartment owner who got based on that apartment three apartments, and he'll stay on the road. There's a problem with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72246	Thank you. Moving on to counsel clubs, please? Excuse me. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72247	Thank you very much, Vice President. You always put me in that last line a little A joke on the side. [[Intruder Radin: Excuse me.]] My colleague Jovanovic, I think you've actually repeated everything we're saying. We try to come up with some solution that is least painful for it all together, but this solution will cost the state budget and we must be aware of it. The worst solution is that in five or ten years these people end up on the street, on the road, none of us want to. And as many apartments as there are left, there's only so much fate left. I've really talked a lot and we've received a lot of associations, we've received owners, I've got to say at some point that there are people who've gone professionally into it, so I asked, you're a protected tenant. He says no, no, no, no, I'm not, but I'm helping. Then I said help, don't get away because you know getting away is when someone convinces someone you're right, you'll get it. So property is property and we need to be aware that it's one premise we find. But this law is, in fact, the law that will try to solve protected tenants in the least possible way or the most acceptable way for them. And most of them agree to be offered some replacement apartment, to get into another substation and everything but to get rid of them. Those owners and protected tenants who could solve their problem they solved it in different ways. There are other situations that they can't solve for each other. If we don't move on, he'll save his life. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72248	Thank you. And now we're moving on to clubs, Mr. Branko Bacic, the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think here's the three-hour debate on the amendment and addition of the House Rental Act. In addition to the introductory part given by the State Secretary in which he presented the existing situation from the 1990s to the day that he explained the bill's proposal itself, i.e. the solutions offered by the law and during the debate, respecting discussions on behalf of clubs that were so far and through replicas, I have not heard a single proposal that would improve this bill or that would offer a whole new solution. And I'm not transferring it to anyone because no solution has been given for reasons because simply that problem would not have been withdrawn for 28 years. Therefore, the worst or least good solution is to say that this has been declared a preliminary debate since the previous debate takes three decades. So we can say it's not a good solution, it's a good solution. But now 28 years later, that the Croatian state and we, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, are pretending as if today is starting, this problem is emerging, I find it unacceptable. I am therefore interested in whether, by the end of the debate, we will give one solution, propose one, two, three, four solutions that will leave the government with the possibility of improving this text. I agree with everyone who said that by correcting an injustice we need, we don't need to make another one. And that it is necessary between two rights, the first right of ownership and the right to an apartment, the right to, the tenant rights that the tenants have protected by a solution to find a balance that will enable the consumption of ownership rights and, on the other hand, will not create a new injustice, present tenants, or protected tenants. That is why this is a really difficult situation, and so far it has been an indecisive problem because so far it has not been solved in a way that will satisfy both. In fact, in the 1990s, the state protected the tenants by giving them the status of a protected tenant but did not allow the consumption of ownership rights. And that, this problem, this imbalance between one side of the right that is protected and the other which cannot be consumed is being passed through the laws, through the judiciary, whether Croatian or Croatian, and today we are here, today we are where we are. None of us at the HDZ Club doubted that in the '90s it was meant to do so and that it was necessary to protect the tenants but also today we need to find ways to enable owners to exercise their rights. In addition to allowing them to exercise their rights, they have also been imposed on them a number of financial obligations which they, by incomeing a protected rent, cannot achieve incomes that can normally cover the expenditures that come from the fact that they are the owners of the apartment. So it has been a long time since then and neither side is satisfied, this side is not satisfied because it has no resolved status, the question of how long it will be possible to protect the tenant and on the other hand is dissatisfied because it wants, either in the Croatian judiciary or in the European judiciary, to exercise its right. And that's why we have to solve that Gordian knot. I agree with my colleague Hrejo that we can't ax in silk, but we need to use the scalpel to find a fine solution to draw between these two rights a just solution that will satisfy both sides. As the Constitutional Court abolished four articles of the 1996 law, then protected tenants were found in a difficult situation, but the Croatian judiciary, despite the constitutional court’s suspension of those 4 articles, did not find it appropriate to meet the owners and therefore created the case against the Republic of Croatia, which is, in a certain way, the basis for the Croatian judiciary to react. In order not to happen that under the current legal legislation protected tenants because they are not protected by the law of losing their right of residence and the Croatian judiciary by drawing the rights from the judgment of Statile... In this case, there is no obligation to return to the current legislation, to provide replacement housing to protected tenants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why it is necessary for the Croatian Parliament, the legislator, to prescribe a way to allow the protected tenant not to remain on the road at this time if the court so decides, but to allow us, as legislators, to help each other to consume our rights for a certain time. And there, now, the motionary of the government has found a solution that says it's five years old. In those five years, 20% will increase the protected rent to make it practically doubled, whether it is marketable or not, I don't know. It is not the law to establish the market but to double the protected rent. Now the problem is after that, it's a fundamental problem. How and in what way after July 1st... how this law prescribes it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I did not, he said, hear a solution, or legislator predicted a solution in those two cases if it was disabled, members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders and those who are social cases, which per family member have less than 50% of the average salary. But what about the others? We at the HDZ Club support this first reading and this bill and everything that has been presented in this debate to be the basis for second reading, but we would add a few more things. So, I don't agree with the number of colleagues who said we didn't have any data. It doesn't matter to me whether it's 3,200 or 2,950, it's quite all the same from the aspect of the rights that we have to enable both categories of Croatian citizens. So, some record from 2001 says that... Apartments, 2005. 2 542 apartments, the census says it's 3,734 apartments and I agree and join those who say it's somewhere between 2,500 and 3,000 of those apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For me, this information is sufficient ground to get the government into solving this problem in those five years. So I wouldn't agree that for the next five years, we're re-establishing a winter dream to sleep and wait for July 1st, 2023. I think we should do a few things by then. This morning, I purposely said during the Law on Encouragement Building that the state spent about 135,000 kunas on every apartment in the encouraging apartment, according to the government in the bill. So the state through subsidies, through incentives in POS by apartment, stands out 135,000 kuna. For me, the state in a better law, the law on subsidising stable loans, on average, spends 100,000 per four-year subsidisation per apartment. So, we now know that to help one category of Croatian citizens, we spend about 120, 130 000 kuna on average in order to enable a specific category of Croatian citizens, first and foremost under 45 years, but this does not have to be a condition, we can assume that by combining one or another measure, we could find ways through a certain budget to provide a model for the next 5 years that would be ready on July 1st, 2023. It's on the one hand, and on the other hand, in those five years, not telling general about 3,000 flats to hire APN or another state agency, another state body, to take the case in those five years. Not every item is the same, everyone is the same, and I don't agree with those who predicate former owners because they bought a state-owned apartment or would subscribe to overprotected tenants if they had an apartment. So, I'm here to use the right, acquired right. And here if anyone had five apartments and he owns it and he's looking for the sixth, he has the right to look for it, and I resent anyone who says why he's looking for the fifth apartment, if it's his property, he's the fifth, he's the second, he's the third, and I don't have any dilemmas. I also hold that it should be quite in each case to enter these five years and slowly see and that we would welcome ready after a year, two, three, welcome as much as the state would with the combination of POS model, with a combination of housing subsidisation models, or the resolution of apartments with these incentives that we had this year and that started in 2011, how many apartments we could solve. Because like an Noah putting his head in the sand, and may time pass, it cannot be done by a serious state. And I don't agree with anyone who speaks let's stop and let nature solve it in a way that will slowly come to a natural end of the process. He's not coming. There are heirs, it's always the right you've acquired, the right you can use if the law allows it, but we as a regulated state must pass that law. I don't think that's the best solution, but I think it's a very good basis for us to go to that second stage. The very good basis, and if I were to say, aside from the fact that we are going to attack because we are opposition or because you are an opposition, or so it's easy to try to add to a particular category of Croatian citizens, much easier than to solve this problem, I'm not for us to stop and now go back 3 years ago than to suggest, on the basis of this bill, how and how to welcome the first of July 2023 with a combination of models that already exist in Croatia today, and these are the two models in which we can draw the right back to the state, not taking advantage of what the state has done before and our country since the 1990s, we come to a meeting with each other, clearly not in a way that the state takes on itself that responsibility that does not belong to it, but that when already many measures allow Croatian citizens to give favourable conditions and many, that the favourable conditions have bought social housing for 10%, then I think that we can find our own resources in the same way that we can be satisfied the problem. That is why, Mr. Secretary of State, I appreciate what the Government has done and I do not accept the general attack of this bill because it has been written and designed and it has a very good basis for me to go into settlement in order to ultimately protect and protect the tenants and therefore I agree when, before my colleague Batinic, he mentioned transitional and final provisions that should allow courts for the cases found in the dispute to be settled under this law, and it seems to me that we could in this way be able to resolve the issue that will never end the balance between the two rights that are at this time opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72250	Thank you, too. Mr. Hrg and Mr. Hasanbegovic, we have 14 replicas, so you can go for coffee by then. First replica, Mr. Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72251	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you said you didn't hear any suggestions on improvement, so it turns out that this whole debate was more like some kind of eon exercise area, not legal improvements. Of course there were suggestions, but maybe they need to be systematized. The first is if we want to be a legislative body, then we won't see the bill or imagine our activity being caritative, that we're helping only one group of people, or that we're solving only one particular problem and that's the owner's problem now. The solution will be found if you agree that the right of protected tenants and the right of the owner is at the level of the same rights, that it is the same level. If we agree to one such debate, then we also agreed to respect the resolutions of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in 2010 in which it was stated, the Republic of Croatia took part, that the right of these protected tenants, former tenants, should be treated as the right to a home. If we set things up like that, then we have one solution. Not this kind of caritative distribution of some of our bad semi-legal solutions, but let's think about offering protected tenants a buy-out of replacement apartments under favourable conditions, we can do it, nobody prevents us and that's one of the solutions, but then we have to agree to that starting point, which is that it's about the same level rights and that it's about our possibility, that we're including action, not that we're able to re-apply to the owners or protected tenants. Let's solve the problem and property rights and rights of protected tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72252	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vučetić, there is a difference between you and me that I am not buried in any of the other trenches. That's important. Why? Because we agree on one thing and you and I, that we should respect acquired rights. But the fundamental thing here is that property rights aren't consumed and household rights are consummated, that's a significant difference. That's what this law wants to resolve, so I agree with you, it has the right to property, but the owner doesn't consume it. However, it turns out that he is being punished for paying the maintenance of the building, paying on that tax a little bit, the question remains whether the guaranteed rent gives him enough income to meet the obligations resulting from his ownership. So, in that between me and you is the difference and your proposal that you just said, I didn't hear you say it later, is on the trail of what I said, you said it might be a disabled model, it's not, it's models that have been realized in Croatia by around 11,000 apartments so far, by a combination of POS and a combination of the House Loan Subsidisation Act somewhere around 11 500, 12 000 such apartments have been solved in Croatia in 16 years, it's not a little bit. Therefore, I hold if we have solved 12,000, 11,000, for the needs of Croatian citizens, to think about what and how for the remaining 3,000 families or 2,600, 2,7,000, as many as possible, it is possible in these models to realize what you said. So to enable that replacement apartment through either rent or through POS or through this law and that's what I was going to say when I'm speaking for the club. So I admit both rights but it should be recognised that one is consumed and the other is not for many years, three decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72254	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72255	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I have listened carefully to your debate as I have listened to both the debate and the secretary of the ministry. At the beginning, the secretary immediately said that it was the law of the HDZ and of the HNS and that you were being cemented by the team for this story that you were standing together behind it but by listening to your debate, I see that you have pointed out many of the problems that this law should bring and many things that simply do not solve. And you've figured it out yourself, you've even called it a law of good faith, only I can't have any law as a good basis, so it doesn't solve things until the end, it's the beginning of something that needs to be solved. You have confirmed here in your debate that the law does not offer a solution, that this one, you even stated that now we Croatian Parliament need to prescribe a way that protected tenants do not stay on the road. Your speech confirms what I've replicated to the secretary that within five years, people will remain on the road. This law is definitely unacceptable, and you did say so in your debate. We cannot pass laws as good bases and that we will bring something in perspective to “mothers, we will or will not. ” We transfer part, the state transfers obligations to local self-government units, and this simply isn't a reflection of the social state. So we're the state that built houses in Gunja, we're, we're the same someone commented on the subject, so why, the state owned 350 thousand apartments. What did she do? Let's continue to be a social state, we know what we are, what direction we need to go, please stop this HNS mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72256	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Babic, this law is neither the HNS nor the HDZ, this law is backed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, supported by 7 clubs of the ruling majority. Yeah, I said it was the foundation because it's the first reading. And rarely when, unless it's a ratification of international contracts, the law that comes in the first reading is published in the National Journal. I guess that's clear to you. So I was going to say that even under this law, we will be able to solve this problem. And you've read the law, I'm sure, what I said is already part of the law and contained, and that's the part that relates to stimulating housing. So, already the law, that's what I said about encouraging housing she's already registered and it's said that she'll also have a priority in stimulating housing on the one hand and on the other hand I've even missed saying that they have a championship in buying that apartment. So I upgraded to the part where I think it's possible to even improve the law. Because if the government didn't agree with that then he'd probably immediately propose a law by emergency procedure and he didn't, but he did... reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I love you and all the other MPs, and I'd like to make concrete suggestions because this law is absolutely unbiased to me, and I agree with everyone who said this isn't a world-wide law. This law should, in my opinion, allow one and the other categories of citizens to give their rights acquired and consumed. That's what I said on behalf of the club. And I commended the secretary of state and the law that was written to contribute to this debate on behalf of the club and it can improve further.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72258	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72259	Thank you very much, Reverend Bacic. You said to expect us to say how this law can be fixed. Well, he's just irreparable. So we're asking him to withdraw from the procedure. And we're asking him to withdraw from the procedure because before the law is passed in the House, we need to negotiate tripartitely. Negotiations of protected tenants, owners and state. But not only did you not get involved as a state, and here first of all I mean the material assets because these 8 million kunas a year are really shamelessly small but you didn't even put two groups at the same table before the law was passed in the House. Because if that were the case then we wouldn't have protected tenants who are 100% unhappy with this law, so there's not one single protected tenant today in the Republic of Croatia who's satisfied with the proposed draft law. So you did not listen to them, and at least you went out to meet them. So you can't speak for them that they're satisfied if they say themselves they're not satisfied. I remind you that last year your government brought in lex Agrokor in April, which decided to arbitration between several opposing parties, so the creditors, debtors and different stakeholders involved in Agrokor's resolution, so why didn't you do such a mediation before the law was passed? Why did you allow today to be met by a protest of citizens who were freezing at -15, who came from Split to show their dissatisfaction. So even at the very beginning of the debate that they thought the law could be fixed they'd say, okay, we have two readings, we have amendments. But they made it clear to you that they were completely unhappy with that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72260	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, when you say the law is irreparable, then I have no will to replicate with you. You say tripartite agreement, so that's what I said. Did I say that in the next five years, he would have charged APN to solve the subject by subject, to begin to determine the actual state of the case by subject. But in order for that to happen, you know, the law has allowed a transitional period and that transitional period takes five years. And not only does he allow me to make this tripartite agreement that you, or what you called him, but he goes in favors and protected tenants because I also suggested that the transitional and final provisions of the Croatian judiciary should be ordered to solve all the cases that are under way in order not to protect the tenants who are sued on the road at this time, so that they do not end up on the road. Therefore, this Law is also useful for the position of protected tenants, but over the five years that, in the first year or two, let APN investigate, check and analyse the case by case and determine, there may be owners who are willing to sell the apartment, there may be owners who are otherwise willing to solve this problem, but by then we will bring a law which, in my opinion, with what I have suggested, if the Government adopts, may find a better solution than that and probably has better solutions than that. I don't think our solution is the best. There are even better solutions that can be made, but we need to deal with this because this is how we left the disabled part of Croatian legislation that does not meet the requirements that arise for certain citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitution itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72262	Thank you. Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72263	Thank you very much. There's only one clutch higher. Mr. Bačić, so you used one medical term scalpel. To cut something with a scalpel. So when you cut it with a scalpel, you cut it sharply, but very carefully because you can do some things wrong. You're saying it's not clear how many apartments there are. Is that 2500, 3000... Well, it's important how many there are because it's important that you see what this Law is going to produce. So you with this law have no idea what this law is going to produce in the end. What's gonna happen to the owners, what's gonna happen to the tenants. The law isn't written equally for everyone. To this end, if it were written equally for both sides, then there would be no protest here before the Parliament today. So here is not the relationship between those protected tenants and the owners. Here is the relationship between the state and protected tenants and the state and the owner. You and this law are pushing them into conflict, and they're not in conflict. So this is where the state needs to work things out. And I'm sorry that you didn't say in your debate where the role of the state is and what it is, I'd say that this whole discussion on the side of the position says that you're undecided, as well as your Prime Minister Andrej is undecided to obtain this bill. And that's it. You don't know what to do with the law, so here it is for us to discuss it all afternoon so that we can discuss the Rules of Procedure later on. It's obvious that even the Prime Minister who's undecided, Andrej, indecisive, doesn't know what he would do with this law, because I think he's determined, then he would solve it with a scalpel and both of them would be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72264	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72265	He's a colleague of Mrsic's. We're pushing them into conflict? That conflict started 70 years ago, you know. And we're trying to solve it. You say I'm indecisive. That we are indecisive. You solved it when you were 8 years old. For eight years, you've been acting in power. You've been Minister for four years. Why didn't you solve it when you were so determined? Why didn't you handle it? You had only four years of time as a minister, and before that, another SDP government had four years of opportunity to solve it and didn't solve it. This indecisive government, in your opinion, solves him practically in the first year of his term, or second year, does not matter now. It's important that this solution has happened, and you're being determined, and you say... So we'll have another year, two, three, four debates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think it would be correct for the SDP to assume its share of responsibility and, in addition to the proposal of the conclusion, to return this back to the debate, to make a concrete proposal, so instead of proposing, not you, every honor, you try often to write bill proposals, instead of some law of one or two articles that you could have solved while you were a part of the ruling and while you were ruling, make one bill as to how gentlemen, who is sorry that today on -7, -8 were on Mark's square, would not then come to Mark's market. I understand them and my entire speech was precisely on the trail of understanding of people who have their right, who, unlike others who have it and who do not consume it, and for whom the state must take responsibility in a way that their right helps them to accomplish it even after 1 July 2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72266	Thank you very much. Mrs. Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72267	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Bacic. I've been listening very carefully to your presentations and I have to admit that you've been going one way from the beginning, and you've ended up on the other side. In fact, at the beginning of your presentation, you stated that it is essential in this law to protect the right of ownership, so that in the end, and especially in your replicas, you would seek some balance between ownership and housing rights, or protected tenants, and now you are saying later in replicas that in the next 5 years we will try to solve the problem of these protected tenants. Well, that's exactly why this three or four hours is already under discussion that this law is not good. That you are not solving the rights of protected tenants in the Law, for no one, as I have noticed today, has put into effect the questionable right of ownership and that this right must one day be realized. The question in this law is that you are abolishing household law, and you are not allowing it to become as a possible right of ownership as it was in '91. In fact, you can't lift people's housing rights today without being able to solve their own housing issue, so in the next five years, if these units of local self-government can or can't possibly get rid of it. You thus create a great injustice and do not solve the problem and create new social problems, and especially consider that they are citizens of older age and you cannot offer them credits as people who are 30 or 40 years old. So, as in '91, housing law was an opportunity to move into ownership rights under special conditions means with special terms of lending, so you these protected tenants are obliged to offer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72268	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Luc-Polanc, you either didn't understand me or you misread me, so I'll read you how I started, and I'll write down exactly what I'm going to say. The first thing, to make sure that the correction of one wrong doesn't do another, to establish a balance between ownership rights and the rights of protected residents and it's a difficult situation and there's no completely fair way that the same should satisfy both sides. Therefore, I began to be careful to correct an injustice which is injustice, 70 years not to use something that is yours is a huge injustice, but by correcting that injustice I said and so I started, that's the first point of what I've exhibited there is not to commit another injustice. And that's why I went on and on and on and on and on, and I ended up through the models of the Croatian state in the part of encouraging or resolving housing issues, the government, along with what she wrote, and already mentioned POS, is mentioned in the law POS that... sees whether it is possible to use this other even better model for me. I am the author of the model or author of the State Guarantee Act and subsidisation of housing loans in 2011 and when we wrote it in the ministry for me is better than POS and today I hold that it is better POS and cheaper to cost the state and enables the customer to choose the location and not getoized in the POS building but can go wherever he wants. And I welcome it because now the government has further promoted it and made it possible for me to say this morning to build and solve family homes, as a rule, outside these urban urban areas, on that trail to resolve the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72270	Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72271	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, the fact is, and you can see from these replicas that MPs are mostly buried with those e-mails that were received from either owner, but mostly from protected tenants. In the very description of this law, and that was initially said by the State Secretary, it was the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Statileo, who analysed the domestic legal regulations in detail and subsequently reached this verdict. And they said it was a violation of the Convention on Human Rights. And also the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, he oversees the implementation of this verdict and asks the Republic of Croatia to adopt a legislative framework related to the case of Statileo and many others that have been launched in the domestic direction. So they're asking for that problem to be solved, we have certain deadlines where we have a duty to do so. I agree with you when you say that another solution can be found because it is a first reading, that both through POS and through subsidising interest on housing loans and about what you have said may be found another better solution to better protect protected tenants. So it's clear to me that we can and should discuss protected rentals, but at the same time we forget the category of owners and their compensation because it's an additional danger that can be overcome over the state budget or what we have to pay for, so we should think about that category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72272	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Babic, you've said it great and I'm signing it from word to word with what I would just add, so that we could do everything we've said if the government is going to do it, we've proposed I hope that the government will accept part of those solutions, it's necessary to hire a state agency. In my opinion, APN is the most appropriate body because it has the most experience and a detailed analysis, apartment by apartment. It's not that I say 2600, 700, 800 is 3000 apartments that can be handled relatively quickly and we can really when we have that analysis then prescribe an exact apartment per apartment household by a specific measure that is acceptable. But it is all on the trail of what we are about to do as a state to fulfil the obligation arising from the European Court of Human Rights ruling. That's what we have to do and I say I don't accept and I can't agree with the proposal let's let things go the way they go, maybe these people will eventually, each of us will die and then the problem will be solved in itself. It is for me, especially for the state simply unacceptable that the state can at all be said to solve such a burning problem in its space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72274	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72275	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić, I see that you are not convinced of the quality of this law yourself, it is a pity that there is no Mr Štromar here to defend this law, but you must do so, and there is a lot of manipulation here and with this judgment of Statila because, at the same time, in a report by the UN special rapporteur for the residence of Rachel Lovnik to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is said, I quote "the tenant right must be recognised and afforded a ransom without discrimination". It is also evident that this law violates Article 8. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 34 The Republic of Croatia's constitution that home is inconclusive. When I say that it is manipulated by the European Court of Human Rights ruling, while ignoring the European Court of Human Rights' ruling that protects the right to a home, namely in that judgment, which is constantly called upon by the initiators of this Stramar law, it is simply interpreted and it is definitely not about how this ruling should be addressed. So it only identifies the lacks of existing legislation and in no way requires Croatia to solve this problem by disposing of nearly 10,000 people on the street, while at the same time being completely ignored, one other verdict, Lemo and the other against Croatia, which sanctions Croatia precisely for the unlawful seizure of property protected by the tenants and protects them legally from home. So, in the event of the adoption of such a law, there would certainly be a large number of lawsuits on that basis. So what we have to say once again, this problem cannot be solved unified, because even among the owners of these apartments, a part of them is already damaged because he bought another apartment because a very small number of people remained truly right, that they were completely depreciated in the value of the taken property. And through our proposals, we have offered solutions, which I hope will be incorporated into the law by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72276	Granny, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, so whether or not Minister Stroman is there, we can discuss it, I think that quite, in modern times, colleague Uhlir is in this topic and on all issues, doubts can very well be answered and I don't think we're going to be able to suffer about the government, that we won't be able to have quality answers. So I would invite you, colleague Jovanovic, okay, you disagree, you think this isn't good, but come on, here, make one proposal that would take care of one category of law and another category of law, and that all of this doesn't put the whole problem down on the state, or it would be a solution, it turns out for you, that the state makes 3,000 new apartments at this point and that, and that it allows everyone, that simply those apartments are being replaced. I think that these measures that have been tabled and with the solutions that are given and with those that we should all contribute to this debate in a way that we can give some kind of solution, that this law, in my opinion, can respond to these two demands and former ones, that is, the owners of apartments and protected residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72278	Thank you. Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72279	By reading the bill, I first thought that I had missed something to read or understand from that law. Then listening to my colleague, I thought maybe I didn't understand what the man was saying. But after your debate, I understand that I've got it all figured out. You admit that for one group of people you have no idea what will happen after 5 years. You will take care of the socially endangered and of course the defenders and members of their families, and what about those who do not belong to any of these categories. You admit here, speaking on behalf of your club, you don't know, you don't know right now, but that you have five years to solve this issue and you say promise, so we won't sleep that 5 years old since the 28 years of Croatian state, HDZ has been in power for 20 years. Well, you slept through those 20 years, I guess, when you haven't worked it out by now. Well, I suppose you've had a good night's sleep in those 20 years, so when you wake up, maybe you'll get rid of something in the last five years. I don't know how you'll sleep, but people who aren't defenders and members of their families and who aren't social cases, but they're protected by the tenants, my god will not sleep while HDZ is in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72280	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72281	You know what my colleague Stazic, after you've read the law, after listening to his colleague, Uhlir, after listening to me, you still have no idea what this law is about. As you said, that you didn't even know after you read it, you don't know yet, and that's that if nothing gets solved, that they're going to get hit by protected tenants, that's what you don't understand. If nothing is done, the protected tenants will suffer, and the owners of the apartments will take their claims to the state, as in the case of... The state will deprive, from the lawsuit one after the other, of paying for what it doesn't solve, and by listening to you, I can't solve anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then the state's fine lawsuit for the state budget lawsuit will compensate the owners, that's your proposal, that there's nothing to do, that the limb slowly deposes one by one, and that until it happens, the owners of the apartments slowly settle in the state budget. That's the solution, that's the suggestion if we don't do anything. And I agree with the fact that we have to do something, so that the owners don't sue us and that the protected tenants don't run out of flats, but that the state with the measures it has and that I'm in favour of, allows them to have that right of their own even after July 1st. So if it will be, will they be the owners of some new apartments, by these models, or will their state... to allow someone else to continue to have, to be hired, to be a state-owned apartment, as they decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in order for them to decide, we have to do something. If we do nothing, but sleep, as you slept and as you now sleep, you haven't woken up yet, they'll still have problems both.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72282	Let's not talk so much about sleeping. Mrs. Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72283	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. So, yes, it's true that we have to do something, and none of them, so there's any doubt about it, and it's really true that this is a very sensitive situation, and in which there are really two sides neither of which are satisfied, and that's why I can't agree with you with what you said, and you said that the analysis doesn't matter, that's what you're saying. That you don't care if there's a number, which is the number of those apartments, which means it doesn't matter what relationships they're in right now. I don't agree with you here and you said, so you mentioned a few more times that you would, therefore, that this is a law that is some foundation and that you would then do it in walking. On the contrary. So this was to be preceded by a good fundamental debate, one agreement, a conflict or opposite agreement, and then a law that will have solutions. This law doesn't have it. This law, unfortunately, and this is also seen in today's protests in front of the Parliament, so it is seen that no solutions are offered that will bring what is, no framework is offered which will be, which will be satisfied both sides and we must achieve this. Because after five years, we'll be, maybe not all of them, but there'll be a number of social cases if we do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72284	Thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Alfirev, thank God you don't agree with your club's position to do anything. That's a lot already. On the other hand, I said it's less important and it doesn't matter if it's 2700 or 2900 apartments, because the world doesn't start with us by convening the Parliament or with us representatives. Croatia doesn't start with us. It's already a series, I said, there are three ways to collect these data, and in my opinion, the one with which the ministry has had since 2005, when both associations were giving data somehow the closest and most real and more I hold to it than the one that's official, which comes from the 2011 census where 2700 apartments are spoken of. Because the way the censusors enter the houses they ask if you're protected, you're not a protected tenant to older people, etc. the question of how accurate the data is. I'm more, because I'm taking the data that was in the ministry, which was talking about 2500, 600 apartments. So it doesn't matter to me if it's 2600, 2700 we know the apartment fund. With a table, two hundred apartments, maybe by the time we collect that data, they'll be re-changed from the beginning to the end of the collection. I wanted to say that it's not important, but if we know it's 3,000 apartments and we know that we're 12,000 apartments in the meantime with some kind of government measures, that it's enough for us to know how much this would cost if we went after the analysis that I also said he did, and I suggested the APN can decide how and in what way the case will solve and how much it would cost the state if we went to one of those measures that are now available to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72286	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you forgot to look at your colleague Bačić's 2002 state statistics, which speaks next. The State Department concluded in the list and on a sample of 3009 protected tenants for those protected rentals is worth the following, that 1083 or 35.99% of protected tenants have their own apartment or house and lives in other people's houses still, that 316 or 10.50% of them have their own apartments and houses and live in other people's houses, that 105 or 3,49% have their own apartment or house and live in other people's houses. These are statistics from the State Institute in 2002. So more than half of these protected tenants have their own properties, and they live in other people's homes. Under this law, they have six months to move out. The defenders in this population are only 19, i.e. The defender, the families of the dead, the dead or the dead of Croatian defenders or Croatian wartime disabled, were only 19. What does the Law on Defense say about them? They do not have the right to residential care if users are in the capacity of a protected tenant for an indefinite period of time, unless that apartment is returned within 6 months of the adoption of a decision on the right to housing. That's what it says about defenders. So are social cases. You've got about 1700 left in this account of those to be taken care of. I think the state has the strength to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72288	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72289	I said something on behalf of the club about it. I'm not sure at this point if you'd be going into counting blood cells protected by the tenants, because first it's a matter of justice. According to the present, it seems to me as far as I know these laws, according to the current state of affairs, things for protected tenants who have such apartments in their possession, I think the judiciary would react in a way that would then take away this apartment where the tenant is protected, I think. I don't think I'd do that, I wouldn't put my head on a tree, but I think that's the way it would be. Just as when I fall into the trap of counting blood cells protected by tenants, then the question arises what about those owners of apartments that used the Law on buying social housing. So it seems to me that we might be walking into these traps then, so I still need to think about it. I'm talking in principle, and that's what you're entitled to, and I have the right to property, and in a collision these two rights states have to find a balance on how and how to react, and I think this is a sub-sectoral rock, a step to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72290	Thank you very much, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72291	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, that the protesters were supposed to be today and this is already being talked about, however, three or four months ago when protests were held here in St. Mark's Square, no one came or talked about it at all. One of the owners told me then, there were 3-4 of us here from the Parliament, she told me like this: "Ilica 160 and some number similar," says the owner, holding cats in my apartment, not to get me inside, of course, and she has her own property, but don't let me get into hers. So, we warn, here and now, a colleague said, who has apartments, houses and still holds other people's property, of course we all know how acquired, of course we all know by the law that property – property, the only truth, has been kidnapped. The state here must be more determined to do so. And those who really have nothing, try to help them and solve their problem. Of course, now we're all going to cry over the fates of certain people. 70 years ago, no one cried, no one asked them. They were just happy if they saved their heads, if they hadn't lost their heads, they weren't killed, but after 70 years, 60-70 years we've been trying to solve it and we've got a problem again. We all here in this House and this society must understand, everything that's been taken is cursed and it is now proven. Of course, there is a god who solves both governments and parties and states and territories and everything else. And all we have to do is come clean with those people who might be kicked out of somebody else's property tomorrow, we shouldn't be idiots like them. Of course, you don't have to come back like that. But property, number one is only true and there's no other story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72292	Thank you. Answer. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow mouse. There's a big problem with certain fates. I'm not one of those who changes his attitude, that his attitude determines the latest information he hears because when you listen to one category of citizens, there are really difficult cases and should be heard and valorised with quite a dose of understanding, and there is also a fate of very difficult, tragic and everything that has happened on the other side. If we fall into a trap listening to individual fates, then we will disperse in this debate and we will not solve this great problem in the state. In my opinion, we must stick to the principles that apply to the Constitution. And this is that it is the right guaranteed right of ownership and that there is a right of the tenant to a protected position and that the country that the accomplice was taking away from was the one that has not yet solved the issue of protected tenants, we must today, soberly, peacefully, without entering, which I said earlier, and counting the blood cells of each individual case give one smart and valuable proposal. I said, this is the foundation for me that, with some change, I think it can finally solve it in the next five years. If we don't approach and accept this as a good background, we're just gonna lie down with our shoulders and this is gonna meet someone else, but it's not gonna work out. So it's a good thing we're discussing this today. It would have been better if it had been settled 20 years ago, but here. If it had been easier, it wouldn't have welcomed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72294	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72295	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here, after almost 4 hours, 3 clubs, 50 replicas, I unfortunately haven't heard a single concrete solution yet, a proposal. You're in the debate on behalf of the club, if anything, trying to open a few questions, which we simply can't, if we don't open them, we can't solve the problem. Because there's no unambiguous solution here. Here each object is two human destinys. I'm talking about carriers and a few other situations along with them. And that's why I think it might be best to install an article in this Act, that within 90 or 120 days all owners and tenants are obliged to report to APN or someone else to get a complete picture. And the basic principle that this whole story needs to be held is that this is a social state. That those who are socially endangered simply their stay or their housing issue should not come into question at all. Another thing, let's be honest with ourselves and with the people we represent. We are talking about real estates that are honestly worth some of them 300, 400, 500 thousand euros. Some, as they say, are worth so much that they wouldn't even have a rusty bike lying on them. So we can't argue on that basis either. And the logical thing, if someone is in the center of the city of Zagreb, in a 100-square apartment, that you give him I don't know what, he won't be satisfied. And also, the one who owns that apartment feels terribly affected because it's his. It wasn't his ancestors who stole it, it was what they got. So, a series of things, a series of problematic issues and here unfortunately, in this Assembly one side protects only one group. You, on behalf of the club, tried to evenly put yourself on one side and the other aware of facts and problems, but without accurate analysis, unfortunately we won't be able to solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72296	Thank you. We don't have time. Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Shuker. I agree with you. Now the question of the government is whether what we are and what you have suggested is how it should be before or after the 2nd reading, or the final bill, but it is necessary, as you said, each subject is for itself, each fate is fate for itself and it should be, I think it is the APN place and the address where we should go to solve one by one. In order to do so, this is what is important, this Law gives this one break of 5 years in which residents will pay 20% more per annum than this guaranteed, but it will allow court disputes to freeze if, on the other hand, they can say, that, on the other hand, the state can find, see, manage the whole process, and that is, I agree with you, it is our proposal not to rely on only one side in this dispute or in this case or as it is already, the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72298	And finally Mrs. Comparic Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, what you said in your presentation on behalf of the club and you are trying to persistently impute this foreign assembly, which is that we only protect one category in this relationship and number 2 that we did not make constructive proposals. And first of all, if we hadn't made any constructive proposals, first of all, we haven't only protected one here so far, unlike this law and you who are actually protecting one category. And as for the proposal, all the time here, we're very clearly trying to communicate the following, I'm going to say on my personal behalf. Yes, property is returned to the owners and B that the state needs to find a way in this law, immediately express how they will defile those people who are now protected tenants. Because you're now explaining to us that the next five years will try to find a solution, that we'll try to find a solution, we'll do the best we can, what if nothing happens in 5 years for the truth. What if five years from now, these people are out on the street? Where does this law say that they will surely be protected? It doesn't say anything and that's what we're looking for today and all the time we're talking about. It doesn't say anything in this law, except in principle on page 5. that you will transfer all cargo to local self-government units. And what if local self-government units can't handle it? What if they don't have any fiscal capacity to build apartments? What if they don't have apartments to put these people in? If the state led to what it did in '94. Or '96. Sir, then we also believe that the state has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72300	Thank you, Mrs. Comparic, thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, we do not protect that one category, but they are protected by the Constitution, and you have sworn to honor the Constitution. Therefore, then, do not impute us, if we defend the constitutional category of ownership rights that we did not protect as a state, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg had to protect. And instead of finally taking that responsibility now, what did we take the oath for? That we'd respect the constitution. You would now, with your club proposal, say, release the water until the masters leave. Therefore, we cannot do so; we must take responsibility, to protect this Constitution, and to protect the rights of those who are entitled to it, and not to consume it, and thus have been disproved, but to avoid other injustices, that is, to make it possible for people who have this right of residence, to allow the state with different models and approaches to continue to be in a position to rent or to be able to buy an apartment with other measures by one of the models that are currently in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72302	What article, Mrs. Comparic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72303	... President, item... [[Specially enabled.]] demeaning or insulting the President or other representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Bačić made it very clear to me that I did not respect the Constitution, trying all the time to find Article 3. I knew exactly what he was going to want to be called on, where it says, therefore, that property is inalienable. But among other things, it says that this state and social justice are freedom, equality and social justice. So these people, which we're going to throw out on the street in five years without the Constitution guaranteeing social justice, that's what I've been trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72304	What do you say, Mrs. Comparic, we move on? Okay. I even lost my list, and it's over, sir... We're done, I threw it away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The secretary of state has five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72305	... I took a few minutes, maybe reroute a little debate, so some MPs aren't here with whom I'd like to give an answer and try to direct them all in a constructive direction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Hrelja said if the owners will get their apartments one day, so it means they shouldn't be taken care of in general. We have a European Court of Human Rights ruling, I remind you all the time, let's talk about the framework that has been set up for us. About this subject, we can't think out of the box, just within which we are set and within it to look for a solution. The right to a home is equal to the right to ownership, it's not, it's not. The verdicts mentioned by Mr Jovanovic, if we have against the Republic of Croatia, should be read, we have read them, we have sought legal interpretations and from our legal representative before the European Court of Human Rights. It's about social housing and home rights, and otherwise it's about private housing and home rights. The court judge differently in different cases. The right to a home, the right to ownership is not the same. Whether to burden units of local self-government, as Mrs. Mrak Taritash suggests, a little more include units of local self-government, counterpart Babic says, no burden on local self-government units. So every time we talk about this problem, the problem is now a little different than it was until 2014 when there was no verdict from the European Court of Human Rights. We need to find a solution now, we can't delay now. In this bill there is a series of solutions set up that no one should be found on the street, but nobody only needs to read with a little goodwill. If something can be fixed, do the work, today we heard two good suggestions from Mr. Mica Batinić and Mr. Bačić, we missed some good suggestions. Okay, we're gonna fix that, and they're doing two readings to talk about it. Mr. Stazic said there is no solution for the protected. As there is no, so the law cares about it, we execute European Court of Human Rights rulings, we do that, we offer a number of solutions to protected people so they don't find themselves on the road. Advantage in all state programs in all rentals, buying everything the state has, and doing so you see that there are programs different, POS, POS plus, POS rentals, POS building houses in all this can be included. Why throw it away just like it's nothing. The damage to protected tenants, Mrs. Komparic, may be the wrong word. Yes, I've written it correctly, you should say maybe a way of replacing solutions, but there's no reason to damage someone, so it's a difficult notion that's been used. And I would once again read the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights in three points. Unsustainable is the unlimited duration of the lease contract, so it must be interrupted, translated, very restrictively set aside the possibility of termination of the lease contract, it must be easier to break up. Inappropriately low rent, so all this when read with our Constitution is very clear frameworks set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72306	Thank you, too. We have five replicas. First Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72307	You say no one's going out on the street and the law takes care of a protected tenant. Well, so you don't, Mr. Uhlir and Bacic, your lawyer still deceive protected tenants I'll read what's written in the law you're proposing. ‘The protected tenant and protected tenants referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article who have ceased the right to the protected rent and other rights and have been evicted from the apartment by 1 July 2023 at the latest if they have not concluded a new lease agreement with the tenant or the owner of the apartment or if this law is not prescribed otherwise’, and it is prescribed that, if it has units of local self-government, it will be cared for. ‘If the tenant is not evicted from the apartment within this time limit, the tenant or the owner of the apartment may bring an action against the competent court for eviction from the apartment’. The court will rule that this one has to move out of the apartment and he will end up on the street. And this law reminds me more of the racial laws of the NDH on Jews who forced them into the street by law, the racial law written by Mile Budak, the chief of which is now called the streets and squares of Croatia, is your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72308	Quietly, please be quiet. Mr. Stazic, don't you think you've gone too far? No, because this isn't about any race of any kind, I won't give you a warning, but you've gone too far. I'm not gonna give him a warning so we can move on, but you've gone too far. Answer, Mr. Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72309	Look, as long as I try to keep the attitude balanced try to find solutions, but this way I can't find a solution. So in your replica on my date for the pay phone, you have come out of the set framework of the European Court of Human Rights. So this solution is within the framework, you can't deny me that within the framework. So outside the framework of the European judgment you can't get out, we can look for alternative solutions and they are offered. Those who will need an exit if they fail to conclude a lease contract, and the safeguarded lease contract must be terminated, it is a verdict and cannot remain in those apartments, it must be terminated, it is a verdict, it is the execution of the verdict, and the following solutions are offered, the whole range of solutions is offered with a small activity of each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72310	Let's move on, Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72311	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the thing, right now. I didn't say that local self-government units shouldn't be involved, they certainly should, they did charge some of the money from selling social housing, some of them didn't really return the part they needed to budget. The fact is it's about big money, that '96 law. We didn't stick to it for years, but it's time for those injustices to be rectified. As for the judgment of the Statileo you mention so much in it, it doesn't say anything about how we're going to solve this problem. There are no other convictions that go in favor of protected tenants, but the bottom line is that we can't open the first reading of the law without even seeing the right solution that after five years people don't end up on the street. The coalition partner, Bacic, also told you in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72312	Thank you, too. Are you going to answer or are we going to move on? You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72313	For the first time today, the judgment of Statileo requires execution. Of course, it doesn't say until the last point who has to go where, but it asks that the question be resolved, that the status is terminated. What does that mean in a translated sense? To break the status, that I can't last indefinitely, that requires a verdict. How do I translate that into what language? That's one thing. The other thing, product palette, variety palettes are offered along with a small activity of one side and the other. And that's why there's twice a five-year transition period. You don't cut things instantly, twice five years to find all the solutions that have been offered. And always the right championship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72314	Thank you very much. Mrs. Comparic-Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I apologize if I used a difficult term to degrade. In fact, I was going to say that these people who are now protected by the tenants should be provided with a home. Here, maybe it's nicer, maybe it sounds nicer, but they need a home. I find it unusual for us to talk here today, and you secretary of state all the time trying to twist the story. Either you don't hear us or you don't listen to us. So none of us said this situation should last forever. So the situation is extremely unfair to everyone. Sometimes someone's property or property was taken away, some other people were moved into that property. Those people are in there now. These can't get to their property. So, we are in favour of returning property to people, but we are also for the state to make it clear in this law that these people who are going to be kicked out of these apartments or will come out voluntarily, will get a home roof over their heads. Here's what we're looking for, and we're trying to get it all the time. So, what it says here is that the local self-government unit is going to be in charge of something that might be part of it, but we can't transfer everyone to local self-government units. We're just moving on to someone else. The state has to solve the problem of these four thousand people in one way or another, but it has to write specifically, we need to know exactly, and these people need to know exactly what's waiting for them. That's all we're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72316	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72317	Thank you very much. I'll read you the answer. 28h. Article 2 A protected tenant and protected tenant in an apartment other than the ownership of a unit of local self-government, a unit of regional and regional self-government of the Republic of Croatia shall have the same advantage over other interested persons when renting apartments or selling apartments carried out on the basis of rules governing socially stimulating foreign construction and renting or selling an apartment if it is owned by a unit of local self-government, a unit of district, a regional one that is leased or sold. That's all the solutions. Today, Mr. Bacic said to turn it on. There's a reason why we haven't included, we haven't forgotten, but the House Loan Subsidisation Act was intended as a one-time, one-year law. Let's go with him further. There's no reason he shouldn't be in there. So, the expansion of the glue. What is offered is not that the state takes someone to a new apartment, but that of a solution. That's what you're offering.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72318	Mr. Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72319	This is too serious for us to deal with this problem so easily. In fact, when we pass the law, we don't know on the basis of which facts, whether the data in 2002 is, in 2005, whether in 2011, 2016, when the last time this was brought together, we don't know about it. We don't even know what he's worth is 350,000, 250,000 euros, 150,000, etc. He told me, that law is more important to me in the rank of family law, Nadi Murganic, and here is more of a proposal for both the prime minister and the minister to withdraw this law and make it as God commands. But when it comes to possessions and tenants, offered by my ancestors, it is for me that I have no moment in dispute with any owner of his property. However, the tenant should be clearly and loudly incorporated in this law if we are to resolve the alternative, not compensation, but if we are to solve his alternative with five, six proposals as far as you have said that we clearly indicate it. But also to indicate under what conditions, under favourable conditions, as they were in '91. when the social capital was archived. That's what we're missing. It can't be, someone's gonna get a loan, which is worth a loan when they can't raise it, when it's an enormously high amount, etc. So that's where we'd have to find some kind of solution. And, of course, to end everything when it comes to the local self-government unit. The state's been cooking before and this one now. The state charged when selling social housing and the state to choose to settle these tenants who did, and that's where I'd say the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72320	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72321	Thank you very much. Well, that's a little more concrete already, but we've heard this one proposal today, actually, that the state needs to do, equalize the rights of the people who are now protected by the tenants in private apartments with the people who bought apartments under the Law on the sale of social housing. I said in the opening speech that it opens up a number of other questions and that there is no end because when the state sold these apartments, social housing did it for a rational reason as a good master, to get rid of the costs it has on those apartments and to make money on them. A whole other logic is this now. So these two mergers don't make any sense logical. If we break logic, then we open up all the other questions. I read you the same data today about it once again, maybe you weren't at any point here. In 91st year, there were 1,575 644 apartments in Croatia, a total housing fund. Of that 393 242 social. Now watch this, five times less social. Of those five times less, 20% still didn't buy it, and they were right. So we have 75,000 more people in social housing to some, state, city people who never wanted to buy it. So it's a small group that would now expand even more and these millions and a half of them who were dealing with the housing issues themselves, we're going to put them aside. Now there's this unfair other decision that would happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72322	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72323	Dear Vice President, one clutch less, Mrsic,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72324	Mr. Mrsic, please take time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72325	Thank you very much. I guess there's a Mrs. Weenie. Your Honor, Mr Secretary, you've been calling for the European Court's verdict all along, but as far as I know, the European Court of Justice's verdict does not have a deadline for execution. It doesn't say exactly what it's given you right now at this time. So, you have to meet that deadline, you have to respect the verdict, but it doesn't have to be right now but it will be in 20 years, but it has to be respected, but there's no exact deadline giving it 6 months, 12 months, 24 months from the verdict. So don't hide behind it. Obviously, there are other hidden intentions here why this law is now being pushed. Any smart authority and determined authority would withdraw this law and not give it at this time but would come up with a meaningful solution. What you're offering is not a meaningful solution because on the one hand you're throwing the bone between the tenants and the owners again, and this is the only country that has to react. If you'd come with a bill that forms a fund or you can call it whatever you want, to compensate the owner for damages to the Church, we've also damaged certain factory owners, so this is exactly the same, private property is private property. If you'd come with the fund, and here's a concrete proposal, if you'd come with a fund where you'd be able to damage the real value of the owners in that fund, and let the tenants buy these apartments and end that story, I'd raise my hand for it. But with this way as you now suggest, you create another poor, you create discrimination and you create people of the first kind and other species. You shouldn't be expected to be a determined government but obviously you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72326	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72327	Mr. Gristle, I think you've gone too far. You may be unconscious but you have proposed a new nationalization. So the private property that was recorded in the land books before World War I in the space between the two wars throughout World War II and until today, you would now take and give to the people who are inhabited. That's what you suggested. ... That's impossible. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So you know there's a regulation for us that's called a previous regulation impact assessment. You there when there's a problem, you fill the houses. You write don't do anything, but it's not a variant, I don't think it's a variant to do anything. The European Court of Human Rights rulings are binding. The Council of Ministers, I read it in the opening speech, perhaps you haven't been and you haven't heard, seriously reviewing what we did and what we do through our Commissioner now in Croatia, before this session report to her, she in the EU. You don't think that matters? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72328	Thank you very much. We've exhausted these replicas and now there's a word in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, Mr Branko Hrg, who's waiting and now his moment has come.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So, listening to this debate today, basically, a man gets confused with himself in the assembly and doesn't know what would be right anymore. I'll say I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a judge. I'm just a man who wants to express his views and attitudes on this matter as a man. Neither my parents nor my wife's parents, nor I, we never had anything state or social, we didn't get anything like that, we had nothing to do with it, so I can simply look unbiasedly at this problem. The amendments to the laws that are being proposed to us, I must say that they seem vague to me and that this debate is probably due to these very reasons. It's unclear because we don't have the right information. If we had accurate data today how many apartments the original owners have, how many apartments do those who bought such buildings and apartments have. How many tenants who don't have another apartment, house or something like that owned, how many singles who live in large-square apartments, how many tenants would like to buy the apartment, how many tenants are willing to accept an adequate replacement apartment, how many state-owned apartments could be offered as replacement solutions? That's what I was talking about when we were also discussing the State Property Act. I then mentioned this problem by thinking and thinking about how a part of this problem can be solved in that part. So if we had all this data, I believe that the debate would go quite the other way, that there would be a lot less of these dissonant tones, that there would be a lot more concrete real discussions and that we could make a much more concrete decision. And better. We're not on anybody's side as a club. We don't take sides with the owner or the tenant. We're just realistically looking at things. We respect property. In this case, we are primarily interested in original property. Here's the interesting situation. Today, when we live in a democratic society, we are discussing this Law for a long time, we are discussing realistically looking at a much smaller number of people than the number that was when people were deprived of buildings, apartments, houses and assigned to other people. We have a bad situation today. Nor are those to whom it has been taken away, nor are most of those who have ended up in those dwellings. It's said here today in debates, there's a lot of different fates, and it can't be generalized at all. We believe that owners after so many years simply have to get to their real estate. That they must come into possession of the property or that they must be compensated for that property, but of course with their consent. Whether the owners will comply. 1. this bill comes into possession of the apartment, and when will it come? I don't know. I'm not sure. Article 2 1. says that they would practically have to find a replacement apartment, a replacement accommodation. When's that gonna be? I don't know. So I'm saying that without answering those previous questions that I've asked very difficult we can pass the right law here because we here really, as we have been told many times, decide on the fates of people. The fates of people who are discriminated against. Both. Those who have been taken away from their property have been taken away from them. Theirs shall be returned to them. Those who were placed in these apartments are not allowed to buy these apartments in 1992. Like, let's say their neighbor in the building in the same nationalized apartment could have bought it because that apartment was treated as social. So we have one situation that really discriminates in every way possible. There were speeches here and tones of undecided government, undecided government policy or something else. I would say that it does not stand at all, and that is what is good in this Law that it has even come to the point of putting the law on the bench, that it is being debated, that this problem is not pushed under the carpet, but that we simply begin to argue that we are looking for a solution to this problem. The householder who, therefore, lived in social housing bought it, depending on whether it was 10% or 20% of the value of the apartments. These tenants couldn't do it. The state simply has to intervene here. It won't be possible without that intervention to solve this big problem as fairly as possible. That's why it's important to see how many tenants might have wanted to buy the apartment. How many of those who cannot buy it, and they need to be offered alternative solutions. Very clearly speaking. There's no great wisdom in me. The owner is the owner and he has to come to his own must in any way. The tenant should be protected, in what way? In the same way he was in '92. years, under the same conditions. That's when the flats were sold and some apartments were rented. Both state and local self-government raised funds from the sale of these apartments and from that lease. So, there's a fund that's already been put together for this sort of thing, so let's see where that fund is and see if we can figure out a solution to that. There'll be problems, of course. People who live in apartments that the owner will not sell, whose property and property the owner wants to come to, must be offered an alternative solution. Of course, not an unworthy man's solution. A solution that is worthy of man and his dwelling, and assures the owner that he can gain his property. Those residents who have no intention, or better to say, are not able to buy the apartment or the apartment that the owner may want to sell or the replacement apartment offered to them should be allowed to live with the application of Article 28a and 28b in the extreme case that they can come into a situation that has been protected from saying that they are paying a certain real price after some time, or that price will be subsidized depending on their social status and their social status again. This law equidists the rights of original owners and those who bought apartments. We'll say now, okay, property is property, right, but given what we're saying about this law, we definitely can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't. So there won't be a situation here that someone isn't in any way damaged. And that's why I'm repeating and asking for those data to be provided that the Ministry prepares detailed analytical data to see exactly which groups it has. After that, we can see how we do it and then we can pass a quality law. It's final. We want a law that allows original owners to have full ownership without any conditions and burdens and entry into the property. But we also want a law that allows every tenant whose only living space is a safe and decent roof over his head. Now it could be said that these are two requirements that are contentious, they're not, they're perfectly normal and they're possible, it's just that the thing is whether we really want to do it and whether we want to solve it that way. I don't believe there's anyone who wouldn't want to handle it that way. I don't believe there's someone out there and it's really not good that we're discussing in a way that they're on the side of the owner and the other side of the tenant, and I think we all need to be neutral together and we just need to find a solution in this way to take care of people and get the owners back to their apartments. I don't know if it's an expensive attitude for all of you that could be, but if we don't achieve that goal then we haven't passed a good law and we haven't solved the problem. We still have a continuation of discriminatory procedures that happen all the time and constantly some groups suffer, one more, one less and simply from day to day, and we need to reopen them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72330	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. Mr. Glasnović's first replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72331	Dear Mr. Hrg, here we are sitting for five hours today and we have reached a conclusion, a unique conclusion, we are all saying, here I am now going to have my five seconds that this law is incomplete, that it is made from the valley and that it is just a smoke curtain that will satisfy this request from the Council of Europe on this matter. It's a smoke screen like her, just this morning I spoke Resolution 1481 for the ruling of communist regimes and other... To the removal, that's where it fits in. It's headed towards some ideological thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It took us five hours to see what with the people who've been waiting 70 years to get their real estate back that doesn't know if they're paying for the maintenance of their apartments, not living in them,... A communal fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rent is imposed on them without their consent to which they will have to pay taxes etc.. It's just a force of unhealthy reason. And I was shocked here today, by some people who compare privatisation, the one of course criminal for the murder of tens of thousands of people, the kidnapping and disappearance of the robbery, total robbery translated after '45. A year. And I'll mention in the camp the Channel killed tens of thousands,... There is the Kanal Zagreb camp, where people were shot to take away their property. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wasn't born, our neighbor. This law doesn't say at all, it's a completely different law, they sent two people who weren't competent to talk about it because they said that the law was written by the laymen. What about confiscated, nationalized property? ... that hectare of agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I read five minutes of the factory was taken after '45, who's talking about it? You got in Face and Land, what's up with that? Nothing. That means this is just a sequel to one... systems that some defend because they raise voters and don't tell the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the conclusion of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72332	Thank you. Mr. Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72333	I am not interested in my colleague Glasovic in this case in the judgment of either the European Court of Justice or anyone else. I'm looking at this the way that we have a problem that's being pushed under the carpet, which has been wrong since the beginning and it's not being solved and it just has to be solved. In order to solve it, we need to have all the data, see which ones are the people who are damaged, how many are, how many are the ones that need to be taken care of afterwards, and then give a solution. I'm not going into these other things, I'm not talking about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72334	Thank you very much for your time. Mr. Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72335	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I have listened carefully to your debate and indeed about the great, great majority, over and even about almost everything I can agree with you. At the beginning of the debate, you found the fact that I also warned the committee that it was simply incomprehensible for me to pass the law without having real data on the law and that we do not have the right information that our fellow citizens refer to and how much this applies to the real estate itself. In your discussion in some way and you demand that until the second reading... The data, i.e. that we know how many apartments are involved, how many of our fellow citizens, who are the origin of the property because the note bene doesn't matter to me, some regret that the property has been acquired because if someone bought the property under the burden, under the burden I think the protected tenant inside is conscious of the owner who inherited the property then paid the property significantly less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to direct this law absolutely to justice, it can be directed, so I ask you, if we don't get all the correct and relevant information, the ministry has the capacity to deliver it to us, will you support the amendment of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72336	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Horg, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72337	Well, at first, I said that we were looking for that data, so that he could sort things out with himself, and I could come to a conclusion that would be as fair and fair as possible, because it wouldn't be safe for him to be honest, and that's always going to be the case. I also separate what you mentioned to the original owners, so I separate those who invested and went into business in the process. I don't get into it, I don't blame it, they're allowed to do it, and that's all right, but primarily I think that we should primarily take care of those people who are the original owners, who took it, who can't get to it. And they have to get to it. On the other hand, we have, of course, this situation that will be. And about what will happen and how it will be and how it will vote, let's let it go, let's see the ministry, what the ministry will do, whether to subscribe all that data, whether to run a certain cycle and a certain discussion, can be done, what is said here today through the debate and the thematic session of the Committee of Resorna, perhaps with some other, with representatives really two sides, which should not be opposed, but in principle must find a common solution. So let's be prejudiced that we'll be able to break a good law, which will be sustainable for one group and another.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72338	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72339	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you yourself said that you could not make a decision on this law, because, according to you and me and the members of the HSS Club, it is inconclusive of the Government, the Proposer, to come into the parliamentary procedure, the bill of law which is not based on those bases and facts that could be discussed and decided accordingly. And that's that we don't know how many of these apartments are, how many tenants are privileged, how they gained the status of a privileged tenant, or how they acquired ownership status, and what that means for you, and you yourself said that he was unserious, the government might not be undecided because after 20 years she decided to put herself in the process of this law, but it's inconclusive when such an unprepared proposal comes and we see that there's a big debate, precisely because it's a lot of ambiguity, which is unprepared for the bill itself. And secondly, it is important to say that the state must be involved in solving this problem, because it is basically only blindly respecting the European Court of Human Rights' decision now, because it is thus recorded by financial obligations, as the basis for these judgments would begin to judge in individual cases and impose financial obligations on the State. It's true why the law is here, not because the government is determined, but to avoid these financial obligations. They are not satisfied either with the owners, i.e. the apartments, because that 5+5 deadline will certainly go away and the court process will continue and they will demand that it be resolved more quickly, more decisively, as was resolved in Slovenia in a year. And they are also dissatisfied and protected tenants because they do not see in this article the 28th model by which they will solve their home. I don't think you'd want to do another reading, because I can see that you won't retreat to re-preparing this law, because it's going to go into another reading, it's going to get rid of all these dilemmas at all, so I trust you won't even vote for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72340	Mr. Hrg, okay. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72341	Dear colleague Hrg, you said at first, you have no conflict of interest against the owners, or, in relation to the tenants, you do not have the status of either of them or your ancestors. Well, I can say the same. So here in the conflict is primarily the relationship of the owner and the tenant, in this case the owner who was damaged that he had not taken possession of his property and the tenant, who achieved this right under the laws of the time and knew that he was a protected tenant and did not solve his problems differently. There are numerous who were also workers at that time, who solved their problems in a way that they built houses, private houses. Some have remained in this status and can now be said in a certain way, it is the state that needs to be resolved, so the state, right here and the government, solves it in a way that offers a solution through a series of these other laws, which is here, the State Secretary has repeatedly mentioned, which will certainly be implemented in a way that these and such problems are being solved. So no government has ever considered that it has ever solved problems, especially those related to resolving the housing issue. Therefore, in my view, the correct number is now, although I would personally like it to be clearer because here in the city there are, my city has 100 protected tenants, hence for all former people in charge of this was the responsibility of identifying it and taking care of who it is and what status it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72342	Here you go, Mr. Horg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72343	Thank you very much, so what colleagues of us who built houses, we consciously accepted to be discriminated against, because we built houses, of course we announced those funds in the fonts from which the apartments were built, '92. The year passed a law that allowed the purchase of these apartments for the ridiculous prices that we all invested in. According to the secretary of state, we heard how disproportionate the ratios of social dwellings and private and where the houses and everything else were, so that's the situation. But if I accepted discrimination and worked the house, didn't ask for anything, didn't get anything, it was my right, my decision I was aware of, and I never regretted it. Now, in this situation, we need to look again at this group of people who have otherwise approached the whole problem of solving the housing issue that was in another situation and should not now further bring them into some discriminatory situation against the same group of people who are in '92. years were practically on the same starting basis and that's the point of things. And that state just has to intervene, it's not going to have to do without that intervention, it's going to have to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72344	The action was called "The City House Returns the Apartment", I don't know if you remember. We've got the last two, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72345	Dear colleague Hrg, many years ago a man told me they were there in early '46. came by car in front of the house, boarded things and told them that from now on it's a universal property and that's how it was. That man was my father, so I know exactly what they're talking about and those who own it so they know what they're looking for. So we can't solve one injustice with another injustice, that's a fact, but we have to know what property is if we're in a democratic country, if this is the Republic of Croatia based on the foundations of the 1990s, then property must be unimpeached. And those who are protected tenants in such apartments are quite aware that this is not their apartment, that this apartment has some owner and that they have to adapt to the situation in which they are, as some people have adapted, so they've been taking loans, building their houses, buying some of their apartments in the same model is this. It's hard to make a fair law to satisfy everyone, but I think the greatest satisfaction to anyone who's ever been taken away from it is that their car came in front of the house and said it's a universal property, just the way to solve this problem. Will everyone be pleased? I'm sure he won't be pleased. Can we please everyone? No, I don't. But it's also a fact that a country that is legally consistent with these and those who had such a mark on its head that should in some way take the most of that responsibility on its back, and then we're all the same state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72346	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72347	Comrade Klaric, we absolutely have no disagreements here. So I initially said that it is property-owned and that it must simply allow people to enter into the possession of their property or to be compensated for that property, even if they want it, if they accept it. On the other hand, I repeat, people who live in a variety of ways from a variety of life situations that have occurred in such apartments have to sort things out. A good part of them would probably have bought that apartment if it were '92. He could do it, but he couldn't buy it because that apartment was returned. Okay. My colleague was always private. So it couldn't have been solved. And there's now the role of the state to try to find some minimum limit to try to sort it out and sort it out. I'm not for those people who live in apartments to be viewed in some way as some kind of white crow, I don't know what, I'm not for it. I didn't do it because many of them didn't sort of end up in such apartments, they got a decree, they went where they were, they took it, they went inside, it was all social. And there are problems and then it was decided by a decree, today we are discussing democratically about it. It's been kidnapped by people, absolutely, that you have a case like that yourself, so you have to go back, but we have to take care of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72348	Mr. Škorić at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72349	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Hrg. Here is the debate quite broadly, we all agree that Croatia should stand up and protect one of the fundamental human rights, which is the right to private property. When we refer to the Constitution and the right to the home that home is inconclusive, therefore there is no question of ownership, it is meant to enter a private home. However, we see here throughout the debate that the interests of the employers and protected tenants who are extremely opposed to it are difficult to kill, but we have come into a position that we can no longer stick our head in the sand. Croatia unfortunately remains the last post-Communist country to solve the problem, the Slovenian neighbours solved it in '91. By securing the protected tenants and moving them into former military apartments. We had a war, here a few years ago this problem solved and Serbia, but here we are, constantly sticking their heads in the sand. I would like to remind you of one thing, with what we have all heard about the final judgment of the European Court of Justice and the Statileo case, so no one has mentioned today that we have also received our first domestic verdict, which is why we have the Dubrovnik case and the Varazdin case. In both cases, the State is obliged to pay the backlogs in the difference between the rents and the market prices established in one case by around 250,000 kuna in the other is slightly less. Therefore, our judiciary is also clearly called on to rule on the European Court of Human Rights, and any delay in this issue will only cost the state additionally. Therefore, we have the opportunity to correct as much injustice as possible and I think that... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72350	Thank you, Mr. Skoric. Would you like to add something else, Mr. Hrg, to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72351	Well, just for a little while. So that's why I mentioned state-owned apartments in the part where the law was passed and discussed the Law on State Property. Then it is said that it has a significant number of these apartments and let's see that variant. Here you have now mentioned that Slovenia has dealt with it in such a similar way. And there will certainly be a verdict and there will be certain expenses, so let's work it out so there's no cost of having as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72352	And now after a long, long, long time in front of the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, I had a chance to see that you have full batteries already yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72353	Honorable Vice President, MPs and MPs. The proposal for a law that is today in front of us in the Croatian Parliament and that should be reminded over and over again is an attempt to solve only one of the contemporary social problems arising from the legal political legislative and spiritual heritage of Yugoslav communism. It is this problem, and these days we are talking about, the concrete consequences of the anti-democratic Yugoslav communist rule that this government, like almost all governments, has not known since 1990, cannot and will not face. That's what we are in the context of this problem, I have to be maligned and notice, reminds us of yesterday's expected debacle of the government's prenuptial so-called. Councils to face the past. That the Government of Andrej Plenkovic does not know, cannot and will not in principle face the social consequences of Yugoslav communism and this unbalanced, but not balanced, barren, lacking, contradictory and unspoken legislative proposal. For the sake of the public should be reminded once again, the apartments they never were, Mr. Hrga now cannot hear, therefore nationalised or confiscated have always been privately owned, i.e. the acts of nationalisation, confiscation and some other form of expropriation to their owners have never been seized from ownership of those apartments. This should be repeated once and for all to be demystified and killed by the agitprophesy of tenant associations and some representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have abused the public so far about alleged discrimination against those carriers. Household rights that bought apartments in the so-called Social property. Because of Mr. Hrg, even though I didn't mean it because of the shortness of time, we have to repeat the notorous facts about so-called. discrimination between these protected tenants and the bearer of the so-called Household rights in the so-called There is no discrimination against social housing. The final law on the issue of Croatia was given by the European Court of Human Rights back in October 2000 18 years ago in connection with this, and after the request of a group of residents against the Republic of Croatia, I quote "the court notes that applicants, therefore, were always in a different position than those whose right to purchase an apartment recognised". And in conclusion, there is an objectively reasonable justification for denying the right to buy out to former tenants on private-owned apartments. Therefore, this difference in treatment, I quote, "is not a violation of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights". So any attempt to impose a debate on the alleged discrimination of the so-called so-called so-called. Protected tenants are immeasurable. Why does this anti-constitutional state of ownership restrictions last until today? Because from 1990 to today, all governments have performed calculantly, avoided taking responsibility, tried impossible, and today we hear both sides being satisfied. That's impossible. Whoever wants to please everyone in the end will please no one. The potential losses or winnings of votes were then counted, and all the governments were ultimately the other instruments visible and influential holders of real social power stemmed from the heritage of Yugoslav communism, some of which still enjoy war spoils from 1945, the usurpation of foreign property over apartments in the centre of Zagreb for which a meaningless so-called “insignificant” was paid. the protected rent is generally lower than the owner of the reserve which is loaded by the owner. That's why we're listening to the floscule again today how hard it's been, complex and so for 20 years. No, it's not difficult and complex, it's very simple when you know what you want and when you have a clear will to solve it. So the real question is, why should Croatian governments otherwise maintain the sovereignty principles of the Croatian constitutional values on the protection of property and the correcting of communist injustices for almost two decades now, and implement the relevant European Court of Human Rights rulings and at the cost of producing new damage to the state budget beyond the actual costs necessary to resolve this problem? So, we heard here, it's an aproximative maximum of 3,000 apartments, mostly in Zagreb and Split, opposite of agitprop and tens of tens of tens of tens of thousands of apartments, so somewhere around 270 have changed original property, which is actually completely irrelevant and total untruth that most or significant number of apartments are owned by so-called ". In 1996, since no one has mentioned it since the Law was passed, so on. the right of first purchase, which further restricts ownership, including legal and legitimate purchase. Among other judgments one more time should be reminded of the binding judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, case... against the 2014 Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in 2018, Mr Uhlir, which found that the Republic of Croatia has violated the European Convention on Human Rights in respect of its owners in respect of its legislation, so in 2014, it is in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is in 3 key elements. Unsuitable height, so-called. Protected rents, this is not settled by this Act, a restrictive condition for the owners of the cancellation, nor is it resolved by the third, the absence of any time limit in relation to the communist relic of the so-called so-called ‘registration’. protected rental in a private apartment, this deiura is solved... I'll talk about it later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is this important? Mr. Uhlir has told the key truth here. We today have before this House a proposal of this law, as it is solely because of the European Court of Human Rights' verdict. So let's be honest, if it hadn't been for that, which is binding, never this proposal and with these shortcomings would have been. So, although the last one may be expected of me, indeed in this particular case, if it were not for the European Court of Human Rights, it should be invented. Therefore, the procedure for monitoring the execution of this verdict is carried out by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which has already considered several times the conduct of the Croatian Government, otherwise one of the most obedient executioners of all other Brussels tasks. Despite all obligations related to the execution of those judgments, such a proposal for a law does not significantly correct the identified shortcomings, but increases them further in reality by indeterminateness and new technical confusion. And now, specifically, a very small number of MPs spoke specifically today. So, Art. 1. Proposal, 2nd, which states that the tenant can cancel the lease agreement only if the tenant has secured another apartment with the right to rent an apartment indefinitely. The proposed provision is contrary to the constitutional provision of the Article. In 48, which guarantees the right of ownership, it restricts the right of the owner to freely dispose of his property. Furthermore, this provision is contrary to the principle of equality between the parties and the constitutional principle of equality before the law. In addition, St. 1. is in collapsing with St. 2. and allows abuse i.e. Recruitment by the tenant, however, should be reminded that it is similar to the provision of the 1996 Law. The constitution was lifted in 1998, and now it's coming back to the little door. Further, Art. 28. from a to k. Main observation in relation to the expression, why is the term so-called Protected tenants? A relic from the 1985 Law on Housing Relations of the SRH. Mr. Uhlir, you can ask that question to your chief minister. Can the applicant prove that there is a so-called ‘one’ in 2018? protected tenant from the SR of Croatia. Whether such expressions are intended to create additional confusion and misunderstanding of the provisions, even in their application. Next, and most importantly. Article 28a, way of calculating the 5-year increase in so-called ‘storage’. protected minimums. The determination of the method of calculating the fees in this way is unclear in which the amount of the first year – 2019 is calculated. What's the five-year term for? A full fee to market value should be paid immediately, and not for 5 years in accordance with the powers of judgments, we have heard here, Croatian courts against the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the judgment of Statileo, so 2014, and we live in 2018. Therefore, Croatia's courts have already ordered damages benefits to be obtained by judging a 5-fold higher amount compared to the current protected rent. It's not enough either, but it's done now. Therefore, if this proposal were to be adopted, all owners have the grounds to sue the Republic of Croatia and, on the basis of all these precedents, they would be sued. So the amount of compensation is low, insufficient, lifeless. It takes the fact that property has been limited for 7 decades, that deadline is now still extending. What about their get-out? In addition, the total period of 5 years for the termination of the protected tenant status should be reduced to a maximum of two years. In particular, an example of an apartment of 115 square meters in the centre of Zagreb, Mažuranić Square, next to the former Marshal Tito Square, the monthly protected rent is 312 kuna, less than the reserve and the owner of the apartment received a tax plan for 2018 from the Tax Administration. Therefore, protection for the protected rent pays income tax and, in addition, this is a very important bill completely leaves out apartments that are in the return process, therefore confiscated and nationalised in which the tenants are now also protected and should be clearly regulated so as not to remain in the airless space. Therefore, Article 28 of the protected tenant's right to the first purchase, in which the retention of the first purchase provision, is contrary to the Property Act and restricts the right of owners to other rights. It is immediately noted that this provision does not have a clear objective, except for an additional restriction on property rights, and within an unlimited period of time, I recall that the Constitutional Court in 1999 abolished a much more well-founded right of first purchase for former owners of the Property Return Act, and now retains also protected tenants. And when they lose that status, so in 20 years, a person who has nothing to do with that apartment can show up with his first law. So, the Constitutional Court is '99. It has established that the Law on right of ownership can only be limited with a market fee and if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. A question for the promoter, which is the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the former protected tenant, the former has the right to buy first from the owner and to do so unlimitedly after leaving the apartment. The answer is only one, that interest doesn't exist, the first law needs to be completely abolished. So very important. Final transitional and final provisions, Article 5. On the day of entry into force of this law, all the rights of the tenant shall cease if he, his spouse, etc. on the day of entry into the territory of the Republic of Croatia, they shall own a habitable apartment or house. This leaves the possibility in the coming months of manipulation of the fictitious transfer of ownership to third parties, and therefore the provisions on ownership on the day of entry should be replaced by another timing, for example, since 1996. It's the only way to prevent possible manipulation. The basic fact is: "The existence of so-called Protected tenants in private apartments is the latest legal relic of Yugoslav communism. The owners should be returned to unlimited property immediately.’
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72354	Thank you very much, colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72355	... on the human right to a home and residence from the 1990s, and this declaration says that we demand equality before the law of all tenants of the homeowners of the former social system regardless of the origin of the apartment. [[Specially enabled.]] It requires the possibility of buying out an apartment for all tenants of household law regardless of the origin of the apartment under the same criteria and equal legal conditions. We demand that the denationalisation of apartments be done not by natural restitution but by the compensation of former owners by giving shares, vouchers, securities and the like. Signatories of the declaration along with the stamp were political parties, including Croatia's pure party of rights. Since you were a member of the Croatian Clean Party of Rights and a prominent member at the time, namely the President of Youth, I wonder how you changed your views so dramatically in relation to this time and gave up what you officially signed on this document. I would also like to warn others who do not know how the document is done, here it is in my hands, that the same document was signed by the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Peasant Party and the Croatian Social Liberal Party, and I am interested in Mr Hrg being in Croatia's peasant party, and the Croatian Social Liberal Party is also currently a member of the ruling coalition, which is why they gave up what they signed with their own personal signature and seal, so please explain it to the Croatian public, because I hope you will not, in some future session of the parliament's term for a decade, speak something third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72356	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjc, a colleague of Hasanbegovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72357	Mr. Bunjac, if I'm ever in a political life or anywhere in public life, you don't have to worry, I guarantee you that from me or then you won't be talking about the spirit of socialist false pseudo-gathering that can be disguised in the populist forms that we see in this House or in some serious quass of Marxist doctrine. So I was neither a member of the leadership nor a decision on such matters. In any case, and then today, I've been representing the exact same views, and by this question, you've completely missed the target.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72358	I thank my colleague Hasanbegovic for his response. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72359	Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, here I waited five hours for someone to say the word confiscation, nationalization. Today, a moral crime, a moral crime, has been committed in this House. I asked some of these people, I'm not going by the name of anyone killed to take away his apartment, land or so.? This is the address in Zagreb to show them who was killed here on Bienička road, camp, a channel where people were killed to take away their land, from the troika of OZNA. Some of them don't care. This law where we wait 20 years, 30 years extended another 10 years. That means all those who demand the return of their unabated assets, which is not related to confiscation and nationalization. They say it's something, it's another object. They'll all die, most of them until they get to that solution. And what is it? That's what I said before. It's just a smoke screen to amnesty and yours will remember the gentleman of a young historian and older man that you have amnested the largest criminal organization in this part of Europe. You can suck up to your voters and tell those floscules, but you never lived in a rule of law or know what democracy is, but you would know that private property is out of the world of cows. There are no Utopias out there, my friend. Try coming somewhere in Canada to sign up for someone else's land, it's unimaginable. This is just an extension, this is a flat smoke curtain, this is just an extension of the one-party system, the totalitarian system. That's why Croatia is where it is. Who moved into such apartments and why won't these other, elite partisans come out? You have 61 numbers there on Tuškanac Stjepan Hršak head of the Krapina OZNA, where do these people live? Of course he won't come out because he has other assets. It was a false act, it was a crime. And these two gentlemen here, every honor of the Field Marshal and you're just hikers of the Field Marshals there are no others, you're not ready for this assignment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72360	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72361	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Hasanbegovic's. You talked a little bit about Yugoslavia and their laws then and the kidnapping of private property. As we can see in this House, we are now not defending people who have lost but people who have kidnapped and are trying to feel sorry for their fates, which I believe is also somewhat fine. However, we must, and it seems to us how many years to at least bring basics and legal matters quickly and really solve something that is very easy to solve. Property knows what it is. But we've had the same problem since we were 1990s because people where they weren't occupied were, I know one case because a man lost his house by destroying certain people, 25 years asking to settle his assets and of course he could never still get there and get his own. I believe that in this country everything is done not to end. We need to be clear, we need to make the laws clear and do what the whole of Europe and the West know for a long time. We don't want to, we want to stall, so we're going to be discussing this for the next five years, maybe in six years we'll be back in the same position, but we have to start solving some things. Like our historians who have just said, this little is, what little is not. You know what the crime was in '45. And it was supposed to be sanctioned, and so were all the other crimes that exist. But we are people and politicians, and it doesn't matter what we solve. Let's not just talk about things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72362	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. Reply from counterpart Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72363	Dear Mr. Misic, everything I have said will be translated into concrete amendments, of course, in order to improve and towards strengthening property rights. But I repeat, if this was adopted in this form, this legislative proposal would also create assumptions for the launch of an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. So let's not go easy on the deadlines. For five years, these five years should be counted against the key judgment of Scatileo against the Republic of Croatia. We don't have any guarantee that the owners will enter the apartment after five years, we're talking about emergency court proceedings here. So we know from practice what an emergency court case means in an incompetent corrupt, we have to say it regardless of the possible anger of gentlemen, some of the judges of the judicial system. We know the emergency court procedure, for example in labour law, it is in practice at least the emergency procedure takes three years, so five years plus three years that is eight years. Now I repeat, we all ignore that thing when we talk about expenses. Croatian courts have begun to rule against the Republic of Croatia on the basis of this verdict, where, not in five years now, they are immediately acknowledging the damages of five times the amount of the protected rent. We'll have more damage if we don't spend it right now than if we're going to have an evolutionaryly and calculantly spent it over the next decade.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72364	I thank my colleague Hasabegovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72365	Thank you. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Dear Secretary of State, he's not here, but he will be. There is a complex problem before us and after the reasons for and against which we have had the opportunity to hear the serious task is to protect owners who want to enjoy their property at last peacefully and to dispose of it which is very important to highlight. And protected on the other hand by protected tenants who seek justice and justice, calling on not their own request to enable them to buy apartments as well as other former tenant rights holders under favourable conditions. We have to deal with it and find a compromise so these people don't still lose their roof over their heads. It is clear to all of us and is mentioned several times if this law is not passed that the Republic of Croatia will be in danger and the death will pay the costs of compensation to the owners of the apartments for which the European Court of Human Rights has found that they have been damaged by excessive amounts of rent and inability to enter its property, but more than once mentioning the judgment in question by Scatileo. But at the same time, we must not forget the verdicts that protect the right to the home of the same court, the judgments against the Republic of Croatia, Orlic against the Republic of Croatia and others. So, he's just rightly concerned that all of us, all taxpayers, are going to pay high damages unless we find a compromise. Since this is the first reading, I'd like to point out a few of the concerns that we at the SDSS Club have regarding this long-term problem. One of the concerns is whether the state has, in addition to these envisaged, the law of the envisaged mechanisms that we have heard from the Secretary of State and the capacity to address this problem by transferring obligations to local self-government units, or whether the units of local self-government have fiscal capacity to take over the role that this law imposes on them and what will happen in cases of failure. I regret that we don't have any prepared data that are units of local self-government, whether they have the necessary capacities. At the same time, I agree and support a colleague who is also not here, understandably Branka Hrga, in relation to therefore the necessary data to be investigated and used in order to bring the amendment and supplementation of the law to some extent to work. Furthermore, the next concern is what happened with Articles 27 and 28. The law on the sale of dwellings on which there is housing law. It was in these provisions that the money realised by the sale of apartments in social property, nationalised dwellings and housing units owned by local self-government among other things was used to provide housing to former tenants. What just happened with this provision, and it was deleted in subsequent changes and additions. The following concerns the question, therefore, whether we will pay compensation and court costs either from one, or from one of those concerning the judgments of Statileo and the other and against the Republic of Croatia or from this other party again when it comes to the former holders of housing rights or, therefore, we will obviously have to or use any more serious subsidies to find a compromise that would somewhat go hand in hand and protected tenants. It is an opportunity for me to briefly return to the past in this exhibition, to mention that in the Socialist Republic of Croatia there was a plan for everyone to have a roof over their heads, which is why 393 242 social housing was built in Croatia. When it was '91. In the year, a purchase of dwellings over which there was a tenant right was launched, about 63% of the fund was bought. At that time, they could not buy out military housing, housing over war - affected areas, damaged housing in the war, and nationalized housing. We at the Club of Representatives of the SDSS are particularly sensitive when it comes to the right to buy apartments, because this is precisely the right to buy, although social housing has not been achieved by many Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality who for known reasons left the Republic of Croatia. According to data from international organisations in Croatia, about 30,000 Serb-dominated apartments were seized during and shortly after the war. In addition to forced action, there have been cases of seizing apartments and court routes where largely the right to ransom has been abolished, so by making judgments in absentia or without their knowledge. From such an unfair seduction of rights until 2003 we remained in a kind of vacuum when the state set up a housing programme that does not go satisfactorily with dynamics, i.e. it is very slow and lasts more than 25 years. If this rate continues, the items will be brought in, the items we're talking about won't be solved for another 20 years. After this brief recession, and respecting the above-mentioned concerns that I spoke about, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS considers that there is no really relationship between owners and protected tenants, because both will have to act as the State determines and the situation found by the State is justly resolved, and justly so that it is not damaged if either party is possible or that the damage is as small as possible. I therefore believe that the state should become more involved and strengthen its role in this complicated process as in some way a kind or a guarantor or mediator of this problem and, in fact, only in that way, it would prevent new injustices against protected tenants for whom an adequate or transitional solution must be found, i.e. they must be given the right to a home, because it is a wave of an older population which is therefore neither able to raise any credit or buy them out. We just have to show social sensitivity because we're a social state. At the same time, injustice against owners whose property is in a different way usurped, or the possibility of use is limited. We see one of the possible solutions by forming a kind of fund so that this issue can be settled. But the state still has to be a mediator. The SDSS representative club will be actively involved in order to get this legislative proposal as high as possible and to ensure that this law is implemented as efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72366	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dragani Jeckov, for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72367	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Here is, in essence, the social sensitivity has been respected in order to correct the injustices of both employers and protected tenants. We all agree on such an approach. We've been told through the debates here more that the data is missing. I agree with you, too. However, here I was also asking questions when the law was being prepared 15 years ago, we had data from the State Statistics Office and it must have been a contribution to correcting the injustice, also to seducing order among those who have several properties, while the tenants were protected. So, according to this data I have here is almost 50% of those people. So, 1083 apartments have their own apartment or house, and lives in someone else's house, 316 has two apartments and a house, and lives in someone else's house, 105 has 3 own apartments and a house, and lives in someone else's house. Thus, this analysis does not cover either cottages, land or movables, or deposits, or property of mates of children, who are used as members of a protected household. So this is almost half the amount. By solving this problem alone, I think there will be little left and that it will not be a burden for this country. So I suggest that those who are hiding behind this, and here I have information that among those and representatives of some associations who sell their houses, they transfer apartments to children and declare themselves protected tenants, they cannot be authentic representatives. So, I think that this law should be calculated, as well as people who are hired protected, who are in a difficult existential situation or who have a specific relationship related to their real estate, should find a special solution through the law to protect those people's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72368	I would like to thank my colleague Skoric. Answer. She's a colleague of Jack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72369	Dear colleague Škorić. I agree entirely with what you've said and I think this problem needs much more studio approach than it's done so far. If the data you provided is correct, and I believe it is, there's no reason to doubt them. And I'm on my own, preparing for this debate, and I've come across the same. In fact, there won't be a lot of people, and we'll be able to find an adequate solution, either through the fund we suggested or otherwise. But, therefore, more studioically, precisely because none of us, I'm almost certain that no one here wants anyone on the street, especially when they're old and powerless, actually anyone should end up on the street or his right to a home is questionable to anyone. It's a simple thing that I think we're unanimous here and I don't think at all, I don't consider it a question to be spoken of. So I said myself, "Studently approach," even if it's a case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72370	I thank my colleague, Jack, for your reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72371	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jeckov, listening to your debate, is going to be on the same trail, because as well as a good number of colleagues who have detected the mass of problems this legal proposal has and contains within it. I'm simply wondering if you're going to consider this bill unacceptable in front of your club as we've already detected in the SDP club for a single reason, because there's a lot of facts, data missing in the beginning, to point us in the right direction that law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72372	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Answer. She's a colleague of Jack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72373	... It is certain that the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, after receiving the information I have spoken about, who are crucial to us in deciding on this law, will be safe and certain that through our engagement with regard to these amendments and amendments to the law, after we have obtained these data, we will therefore make an effort and effort to come to the most just solution. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] In fact, even after I spoke to the seventh in the name of my club, a lot of things are repeated, a lot of things we've heard before, but it's just after 5 hours that we talked about this problem very logically and expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72374	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jack, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of SDP's representative, respected colleague Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72375	Thank you, Vice President, dear secretary and associate. Here, on behalf of the SDP Club, I will refer to the law we are now talking about and you can assume on the basis of our replicas that this bill is absolutely unacceptable to us and that we should reject it completely and organise a new one. In fact, at the very first glance of the law and the material itself, it was quite clear that many data are missing, that we simply do not know how many protected tenants are working, how much property there is and how much access to ad hoc that turns out to be done because we also bring citizens, as we ourselves are brought into doubt that we simply do not know the origin of that property, that we do not know how much, here, that is, on the other hand, I will say, how many protected tenants may have any more real estate or no real estate, it leads us in the direction of passing the Law after-put to bring it in is not the right way. We call upon you, or you refer to that judgment by Statileo. There are other judgments that are contrary to this. I am afraid, if in this direction we were to pass a law that would happen to us exactly the opposite, we would also lose judgments as the Republic of Croatia at the Court of Human Rights and that is very certain because these judgments definitely exist. They're Lemo, Orlic, Bedov, and don't let me count on it. It is also very unacceptable, and the state has been involved in any way in this problem since before the Socialist Republic of Croatia. It is very irresponsible for the state to escape after five or five or five years plus five years, to simply leave it to owners and protected tenants that in some ways they have faced it are personal stories and is definitely from the view of the social state such an attitude is absolutely unacceptable. In your defense of your bill, you refer to only one of the Constitution, meaning the right to property, ignoring the fact that Croatia is a democratic and social state. When I say we're a social state, then I say we are. That's what I said in the replica one time. We're back, we've restored Gunya, right? Is that what happens in America? Well, it's not happening. That state has a different genealogy than this country. And by that we're better than them. But what's now a proposal is one step back. Also, the fact that home is uninjured is the fact that it is ignored. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms say everyone has the right to respect their private and family life, home and correspondence. What's not clear about that? Go on. In addition to saying that this bill is in collegiate with the Conventions on Human Rights and the judgments of the Court of Human Rights, it will definitely after five years, and this is also the HDZ Club found to be, to bring perhaps older people who can't get their own, can't get another replacement home or solve their housing issue simply moved to the street. They can do it. Now you don't have the legal element to tell a man to change the potential owner to force his apartment back. What about after a law like this? For example, the fact that we don't have the right information and that we don't know what people are really talking about, what real estate is about. We've discussed this on the board. I really care about knowing how many real owners they are, who are heirs to these properties. I honestly, not absolutely no emotion towards someone who bought real estate for 10 or 20% of the real price with a protected tenant. I do not want to participate in the Croatian Parliament to thus assist this person regardless of any property, regardless of what property is prescribed by the Constitution in this way. Of course, these people should be able to access and have their own real estate, but you're bringing in, we're talking about this law all in some kind of fog if we don't have the right information. That's why they're ugly papers on the subject of your side, if you were transparent, to show how much there is, it would be clear. Less than 4,000 cases must not be a problem for a ministry that is less capacity than for many other ministries, to analyse those less than 4,000 properties, or families living in them. And just that approach is unacceptable. We can't make such laws, and then we can tell our mothers that, we'll work something out. Also transfer the ball entirely to local self-government units. Somewhere I can handle it, but trust me, a good part of the local self-government unit can't solve it, regardless of the fact that it's been coming to years and years, they've been incomeing from selling social housing since 1996, but the approach is totally wrong. You're simply raping this situation, the coalition you've gathered, and you're making sure that you can handle it. But I'm telling you, access is bad and simply guilty. It's not mentioned at all in your bill of law, which is with investments in these apartments. Nothing to anyone. We also have no answer to where that money has been collected since 1996 from the sale of apartments. So it was known that there were, that it was prescribed by law, that the prescribed means of solving these were going to call the cases we're talking about right now. We don't have any feedback on how much money it is. My people, it's almost 400,000 apartments. Almost a million Croats, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have settled their housing issues in this way. It's just like that. Before that, we were the Socialist Republic of Croatia. It was done in socialism like that, but this is how simple it is after how many years to leave the case and we're going to say it's not a good way to solve it, and I'm sure it's simple to go back to the beginning and offer concrete solutions. Keep going. I am honestly not afraid of the European Union at all, and it will be us under special control because of this or that. There are other things that happen in Europe and other things that don't happen in Europe and other things that don't relate to cases like this, but we simply have to strive in what makes us different and what makes us better than the rest of the European Union. That's what I was saying when I reminded you of what the state was doing in Gunja, and we're sending this simply wrong message, and I'm pretty sure that the good part of you that's going to raise your hand for this bill tomorrow is hoping that ultimately this law will not be passed. But I simply claim that it should be returned to the beginning, it is necessary to talk to one side and the other again because there is always a fair solution or one that will cause the least conflict. Why not give the owners the right to property and the tenants a roof over their heads? This isn't exactly what we're dealing with. Read the bill well. And nobody talked about the defenses either. It is written in the article of the Law that they will be able to do something about it but in the Law of Defense. 84th says that – a defense attorney who is a protected tenant essentially has no right to anything. As far as his housing is concerned. No one's mentioned it so far, and these things need to be arranged. I've said more or less, the SDP Club can't support a bill like this that's definitely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72376	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72377	A respected colleague from your presentation is absolutely clear that this law introduces one discrimination between the legal rights of the owner and the legitimate but still from the legislator unrecognizable as the legal rights of protected tenants. And that's quite clear. This debate is overly burdened by something that makes me more concerned than I am with the bill. And that's this anthropological base. If in the debate we include relics of the Yugoslav system, Brussels's listeners or I don't know what happened and property and property rights we raise to such pedestal to forget how ownership was achieved or how ownership rights were achieved then we create a truly worrying anthropological category, which is a category, as if I had the feeling that protected tenants were also owned and owned by apartment owners. If they were almost re-refitted, turned them into things, and now they're just gonna shut up and get off the historic stage. This bill must not be on that line, this bill should indeed introduce a harmonised relationship between the owners and I think that we all agree and that ownership rights are not questionable and the right of protected tenants who are entitled to a home and who should be taken into account. Everything else is a historical, historical structure or how many terms such as the Yugoslav relic are used are real true and original historical lies that have negative consequences for the image of the man we are promoting today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72378	Thank you, colleague Vučetic. There's a colleague named Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72379	My colleague absolutely agrees with you and I support everything you have said in this replica simply by passing this law absolutely no one can be stegmatized. Not even the owners, not even the buyers, who were in some way taking risks, especially the tenants themselves in those properties that are the subject of this debate. I hope that here in the perspective we will certainly pass as fair as possible without cheering for one side or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72380	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. Next replica. Dear colleague Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72381	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Babic, you have questioned whether we are democratic and whether we are a social state. I'm sure we're both a democratic and social state. Home is uninjurious, you have told the owners of the apartments that their right is inviolable. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to have been invulnerable for 70 years. We can't have double criteria and double arches. Various excuses are made to stegmatize the owners to question their so-called so-called. the unfoundedness of their demands, etc. There are also mentions of how many real original owners there are. According to the data we have, 88% of original owners, i.e. 2,651 only 271 apartments were purchased, but the property was purchased. So, we've come out of communism, it's a shame it's taken us 27 years since the start of the state that the last of all sub-Communist countries to solve this issue and this issue shows how much communism still lives, how much it is present in our society. If anyone even discusses this issue today and questions private property and returns to the people of their apartments, it is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72382	I thank my colleague Škorić. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72383	Thank you. I don't think we understand each other. I don't question private property at all or anything else. I'm just looking for transparency. To you one association to give one data, to me another association to give other data. That's not a serious approach, that's what I'm going with. For including my debate, I said there was a fair solution. The owners are entitled to property, the tenants roof over their heads, I think it's all clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72384	I thank my colleague Babic. Next replica, respected counterpart Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72385	Thank you, Vice President. At the end of the presentation, you mentioned Croatian defenders. Well, it's amazing to me that we're Croatian defenders, it's the easiest thing to count. We're in the register, we're here, we're there, and the Ministry knows that the Croatian defenders have exactly 19 in these apartments, but he doesn't know where the apartments are, he doesn't know who's standing in those apartments, he doesn't know the exact number of apartments, which is amazing. So I'm just curious to know where that 19 defense attorneys in those apartments came from. That's one thing. Second, what I've said before. So I agree with you. This law is deeply unfair. So the state gets away practically from its responsibility and transfers all the burden. First she transferred it to the homeowner's back, and now she's transferring all the cargo to the back of protected tenants. It's impossible, if the story stands as the secretary of state says, that this law protects protected tenants and apartment owners. No one is protected because it extends this deadline and agony for another five years on the one hand, and on the other hand it's amazing that the group you're protecting has nothing to say nice about this Law. So, no protected tenant, at least I haven't heard from him, and I've contacted a lot of people these days, I haven't heard anything absolutely nice about this law. After all, you could see it in front of the Parliament this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72386	I thank my colleague Vidovic. Answer, fellow Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72387	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Vidovic, here, you've said everything. First of all, as regards the Law on Defence and this law to be passed, it is another conflict between the two laws and which will certainly create problems. I honestly, maybe we've got it all wrong, I'm pretty sure it's not just 19 defenders from those 10,000 protected mercenaries. There's a lot more of them. Many of them experienced many inconveniences because of their status at the time. Also, you said it was unacceptable to exempt the state from this procedure after so many years. Of course, it is because putting down what the state has dragged and worn on its back and in some way has not been resolved in the last 20 years on the direct relationship of the owner and the protected tenant is not at all human beings to let those in Croatian courts conflict, drive out justice, to be thrown out, not to be thrown out and countless other similar situations. As long as the state is involved in the process itself, it has some perspective to be positively resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72388	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, respected colleague Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72389	Thank you. Dear Vice President, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on renting an apartment. The Law on Renting Apartments entered into force on 15 November 1996 and thus regulates the rights and responsibilities of the Law regarding the rental and use of the apartment or part of the apartment, with the adoption of the Law starting a new legal arrangement of housing relations in the Republic of Croatia by abolishing the housing law and by regulating the issue of the use of the apartment on a contractual basis. The law has seen two changes to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The proposed law will remove the lack of legislation established by the European Court of Human Rights in the judgment of Statileo against the Republic of Croatia. These are the three main shortcomings of the existing law. Unsuitable level of protected rental in terms of legal financial burdens imposed on the tenants. Then, secondly, the restructuring conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and the absence of any time limit in relation to the hedged rental system. The finalisation of the judgment opened the procedure for the return of its enforcement, which is supervised by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. Following that verdict, the Court of Human Rights issued several more such rulings on the Anzulovic cases, Milosevic, Bego, Bulic, Doris Knego, Ingrid Knego and Matas. Following the aforementioned judgments, a number of tenants who protected the tenants also filed charges before the courts of the Republic of Croatia. We've heard that some courts have already made a decision in favor of the owner of the apartment. They seek compensation for the damages incurred as a result of the violation of their rights to enjoy their property peacefully. The proposed law will remove the risk to the Republic of Croatia for not implementing the European Court of Human Rights decision. I note, and it has already been mentioned today, that we should certainly put the bill in the final provisions that courts make decisions under the new law in order to regulate property issues in a fair way. The basic issues to be addressed by this Law determine the criteria of the size and location of the second habitable apartment. One person – one room. Same community or city. The legal protection of the protected tenant in the event of the cancellation of the rental agreement shall also be governed by a gradual increase in the amount of the protected rent over a period of 5 years from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2023. I note that when we talk to the owners of the apartments, there is one problem if we do not put that proposal inside the final provisions, in the final laws. In fact, the owners of the apartments in view of these ideas, these judgments came to the idea that they would seek the economic price of an apartment which would not be good for the state anyway. Discontinuation of the right of the tenant and protected tenants to the protected rent and other rights of protected tenants and protected tenants shall be arranged. Apart from the right of first purchase of the apartment from 1 July 2023. The obligation to pay the difference between the increased rent and the protected rent for rent users who use the apartment based on the rules on the rights of Croatian defenders and beneficiaries of social assistance is established. It is estimated that up to 19 private apartments used by Croatian defenders and up to 75 private apartments that have a protected borrower are mentioned, based on specific rules in the social assistance group. It is also prescribed to favour protected borrowers from other interested parties when renting or selling apartments owned by units of local regional self-government or POS programmes. The right to subsidise freely contracted rentals of tenants and protected tenants whose net income per household member is less than or equal to half of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia for the past year according to the size of the corresponding apartment in the period from 1 July 2013 to June 2028. The consequences that will arise by passing this law are as follows. The criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment will be harmonised when the apartment is provided by the tenant, the owner of the apartment with the criteria for the insurance of the second habitable apartment when the apartment is provided by the unit of local administration. The Republic of Croatia solves the '98 problem. The decision of the Constitutional Court also fills the gap that causes problems, i.e. the inability to exercise the right of tenant owners and protected tenants prescribed by the House Rental Act. The adoption of the law will create a legal framework for the establishment of a balance between the opposing interests of the owner of dwellings and the interests of the state to ensure the implementation of the housing policy of insurance owners as of 1 July 2023. By adopting these amendments and supplementing the law on renting apartments, Croatia will fully fulfil its international obligations stemming from the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Statileo case against Croatia. In order to implement these amendments and to supplement the Rent Act, it is necessary to provide about 47 and a half million kuna for the state budget. I just want to point out that there is nowhere to talk about garages and sheds in this proposal to amend laws that are also used by protected tenants, and they are mentioned by owners and will seek their return, or they even have a proposal to seek damage to the property and seek damages as for business space. So it should be taken care of for a second reading. I also think it would be necessary to examine each individual case regarding protected tenants, I know it's a pretty large number but each case is its own story. We have OIBs that have been interpreted as seeing everything, and in any case I think we should see which of these protected or tenants has their own property, i.e. the owner of the house that may have inherited the apartment or house in the last period, and eventually sold it, stayed in this apartment because it might be worth it more. We heard and we know what the rents are like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72390	I thank my esteemed colleague, Topolko. We have one replica, dear colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72391	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, in your presentation, you mentioned more things that I just don't have the stomach to swallow. So, on the one hand, you don't have any data, and then you're talking about 75 apartments where they live socially endangered, 19 defenders. Do you have the information or do you not have the information? That's it. Are there any data or no data? That's number one. Number two, you are calling for European rulings, that they exist and are also caused by the defendant, or the Republic of Croatia, not those people who are protected by the tenants, the defendant caused them and the defendant from these processes will cause a number of others, thousands of other processes, because you will not have protected the tenants standing with their hands crossed. So you with this law won't solve anything at all. This law is unfair. He doesn't even solve the owner's question, so here's what you just said. That's even a piece of information I didn't know. So if you pay back someone's property, give it back to him in full, for God's sake, not a piece at a time. How do you repay this segmentally? Subtract at once and return segmented. Furthermore, local self-government will provide replacement apartments. Do we all live in the same country? I guess we do. Well, the City of Zagreb can't provide replacement apartments. How do you think some smaller local self-government will secure replacement apartments, they don't exist, they're gone. These are all the problems of this law. This law is very, very bad, very unfair. Injustice towards one and the other. And the state pulls out its back slowly and says - no, no, it's not my job, now you solve it for each other. And it caused the whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72392	I thank my esteemed colleague Vidovic. My colleague Topolko's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72393	Thank you. Dear colleague, like this, if there are any data you asked first. These data were extracted from this bill, so they exist. What you said we were taking as a whole, that the state was taking as a whole, and now it's returning a piece at a time. According to that information I received from the garages and sheds, the manual warehouse was not taken by the state. It is used by protected tenants, because these garages and these sheds are these areas close to the apartment. It has been observed that this is not in the Bill's proposal, which is why I noted that it would be included in the second reading, that something might not welcome us afterwards. How do you say the local self-government units will get back? Look, I know there's no wine situation here. That he will never be satisfied, there are three sides, state, apartment owners and protected tenants. Someone will always feel threatened. At this point, or until this decision of the court, the owners of the apartments felt deprived and felt that they had their right. Which is justifiable. At this point, guaranteed tenants feel cut off because I realize they've invested in that apartment for years, and I also realize that they were aware that the tenants were protected, that the apartment was someone else's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72394	I thank my colleague Topolko for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers, independent representatives, respected colleague Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will actually try to be very brief and only make concrete proposals regarding the bill on amendments and amendments to the law. In fact, if we have read well, and I would say and understand the reasons why this law is being passed and read well 40 pages of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, and they continue, then we realize that this government must have the political will to resolve this Gordian knot. My proposals to present to the esteemed Secretary of State refer to Article 28d. – In the event that the tenant's owner has not concluded a new lease contract by 1 July 2023 at the latest, the tenant is obliged to place the apartment at the disposal of the owner. I don't see here the obligation of the owner of the apartment to offer the rental contract to the tenant. I think you should put that in that article. Because if he doesn't offer him an immediate application, that's how I read the law. Next up, Art. 28th. – A protected tenant whose right to a protected rent has the right to purchase the first apartment in which the owner decides to sell. This is what is not really a new nationalisation, if the owner decides to have the right to buy first, but normally under market conditions. No discount. But I don't see it in that proposal, and I don't see what's going on with the damages of a protected tenant for the necessary and useful maintenance costs of the apartment they've settled. It was not taken into account that despite the fact that the owners had not been able to obtain adequate benefit from their assets, they had no obligation to settle any costs for the property other than the reserve. As a rule, all the necessary and useful costs of maintenance were paid by protected tenants. In particular, I would like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights’ ruling, that the European Court of Human Rights ruled that neither the applicant in the Statileo case nor his successor claimed that they had any other costs, other than the joint reserve relating to an apartment which is, for example, related to the maintenance of the apartment itself, and that the European Court has made it clear that these costs under applicable law are borne by the tenants. You are in response to a single replica, Your Honored Secretary of State, said that the issue of this fee is resolved by the Law on Mandatory Relations. I believe that a long-term and even circumstantial litigation should be avoided, that it is necessary to prescribe this Law that a protected tenant and a protected tenant have the right to ask the owner of the apartment to pay the necessary and useful maintenance costs from the day of moving into such an apartment until the day of entry into force of this Act. This or similar provision in this Act would represent, in fact, a fair ratio between the legitimate interest of the owner to acquire full ownership over his real estate and the interest of a protected tenant for compensation of those costs invested in maintaining his apartment as necessary and useful. In other words, I support the debate of the respected representative Bačić regarding the protection of the tenant and insurance by all these criteria of the apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72396	I thank my esteemed colleague Vardi for this debate. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72397	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Did antelope have the right to live? Well, I guess there is. Does the lioness have the right to feed her young? Well, I guess there is. But a lioness can't thank her bride if she doesn't kill an antelope. The antelope can't stay alive and the lioness can feed the young. It's not working. In that problem, the government decided on the lion's pack. That the lion's pack should still be full and the antelopes to be eaten. We need to protect private property. Of course you should. It's also protected by the Constitution, so we can't argue about it. We can discuss how to protect him. Who took that private property? It was taken by the state. Her name was SFRY. She took it under two laws. The Nationalisation Act and the Expropriation Act. Both were brought into the legitimate bodies of the then state, and the Republic of Croatia is one of the followers of that state. So, who should be returned, who should make damage to those from whom it was taken? And the country. The one who took it. Who else? It's the only logical thing, only right. These can't be local self-government units because they didn't take them, and this law transfers part of that burden to local self-government units. They can't even be protected tenants because they didn't violently enter these properties. They came to these properties in a way that they were first declared state or social property, and then they got some kind of solution from the authorities, from the state to enter those apartments. They didn't break through the door with their feet, draw this flimsy U on the facade and say busy, Croat. That's not how they got in. They got a solution from the state. And it's the state that has to take care of them. How did the state compensate in some other cases? Well, there were private-owned factories, weren't they in the old Yugoslavia? They did. Are they back in nature? No, they're not. Ex-owners have been compensated. And that's what's supposed to work it out. The Catholic Church had considerable assets. That's what the dams were. Have the church prebende been returned? No, they're not. It's damaged. So why now that the owners of factories and churches could have been damaged, and why can't these former owners be compensated now? So is there a simpler solution? Here, fellow Uhlir asks all the time. You're not offering a solution. So we offer solutions. Solutions as already applied in the Republic of Croatia. Who are the owners and who are the tenants? The owners are those to whom it is, as I said nationalized or confiscated, and those who bought such properties as inconclusive. Some might be speculant. They paid 10% of that value, now that they get it back they'll sell it 90% more expensive. This law puts them all in the same basket and makes no difference at all. Who are the tenants? Well, maybe now the third generation of those who got that tenant right after the confiscation. People who were born in these properties, whose parents were born in these properties, and where they live their whole lives. This one that was confiscated, that was 70 years ago. They're not here. They died a long time ago. They have heirs who are not so emotionally related to these properties and for whom this compensation in monetary terms would fall far more easily than for these tenants who live in them. They are, these tenants have already been discriminated against. They couldn't buy it. Here, my brother and I, at the time of the tenant's right, traded that joint property for two. One entered an apartment that could be bought because it was social property, another apartment that couldn't be bought because it was private property, and we both entered the same, good faith, and people entered those apartments in good faith. Social property you didn't know if it was social, if it was a factory or if it was someone's private or whether it mattered. So they were then wronged, and now if they were thrown out on the street after five years, another injustice would be done. I'm just asking Mr. Uhlir, a child who will be born tonight, he'll be five in five, he'll be five years old, he'll be five years old. Then what do you think when the owner of the apartment makes him go down the street to that five-year-old kid if you think you're proposing a fair law? I think there's a lot of ideology in this law, you know. It's an ideological one-off. As with them, socialism has given them tenant rights, so let them now see what socialism is for them, and now we will take it away from them, let them go to the street. And don't work things out like that, because it's not a good way to solve things. These people are, but absolutely innocent, and you will punish them. You say what your excuses are for why it can't be better. You say the data from 2011 are obsolete, there are 3740 such properties but we don't really know the number because it's from 2011. Well, don't say it. How can you even come up with a bill of law without having basic, basic data on the state of things? Well, here's what your colleague offered to do for 140,000 kuna for the government. You hire someone, hire someone, but don't make a bill so we don't know what's going on. We don't know how many nationalized there are, how many confiscated, how many bought, how insatiable. We have no idea. We don't know what's going on with these tenants. We don't know. He says they might be able to buy it after five years. Well, I know, but with what? Well, they're old people. Who's gonna give them credit? They don't, they don't have any money. If they had money, they'd buy themselves some other real estate. Well, we can't tell them now, so let them get along, and here we'll offer them some wide-ranging leprosy. And what's in that glue no one knows, no one knows what's in the glue. And the third excuse is there's no state money to defile former owners. So listen, if we have money to replace old planes with old planes, if we have money for all the tent boy demands, but everything, to pay off HVO for billions. Well, I guess we can figure out how many of these owners are exes, so let's just damage them with the money and settle it once and for all. Let not one of these excuses that you have offered here, colleague Uhlir, be the one that you will bring to another reading, because they are quite inconclusive. The state can't have money for everything except when it comes to buying expensive medicines for children, so humanitarian concerts have to be organised. We have money for the church, we give plenty for both priestly wages and for the Catholic Church in the Vatican. So let's let them finance themselves by organising a concert of sacral music, and from the budget to finance expensive medicines for children. I think that would be much fairer and much fairer, and I think those concerts would be very much visited and that enough money would be collected for the Catholic Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72398	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. I would ask you to stick to the topic in this debate, that is, this bill of law. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72399	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Stazic, you've said a few things here. The first thing you said about the owners was that the owners were taken away. What is important is that this law applies to those owners whose property has never been taken away just the possibility of using their property. So they're still the owners and it's unquestionably their property, but it's equally unquestionable that this property of theirs, so it's about apartments it can benefit. You also mentioned units of local self-government, so I'd like to point out that, under the law of '91. 90% of the amount of the ransom, so the purchase of housing rights went to local self-government units, provided they had to use it to solve these cases. Amendment to the law that was '95. A different relationship put 45% to local self-government units, 55% to the state. And those who bought apartments in the wars still pay. So we're still in the budget making the unit of local self-government, making the state budget get the money from buying apartments. So, first of all, the question is whether these money is related to units of local self-government that have been spent elsewhere, but there can be an amount of continuity and how many years will be paid to the budget of local self-government units, which in the budget of the state, and maybe that's a way to create a fund to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72400	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Answer, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72401	So, these former owners, regardless of what remains of ownership status, were denied their ownership rights, right to use, right to sell, etc. The units of local self-government, exactly they've been getting from buying out apartments, but now this law is being transferred to them by a burden that they can get out of. Some are like you say to solve that problem, and some aren't. They don't care. Those who aren't and won't after five years. They'll tell me we don't have any money, I'm sorry we don't have any money. I'm not into it, I think the state is more guaranteed. The state is more guaranteed than the local self-government unit. In five years, the structure of local self-government can be changed at all. Some units of local self-government can be abolished. The state must guarantee, this law proposes a state not units of local self-government. The state must clearly tell these people, clearly must tell them, we will damage the owners of the apartments, you will remain protected. Because then they're calm. Because look here they are not, no balance has been reached by this law as Mr. Uhlir understands. 'Cause otherwise they wouldn't be complaining, and some of them are complaining, one more, the protected tenants are rebelling more. Which means they're more and more damaged. And we have no reason to protect, why should we protect one group of our country's citizens at the expense of another group. I offer you a fair solution, it's more expensive, I admit it, but then and only then will we make a new injustice against anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72402	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72403	Mr. Stazic, when you talk about who is more damaged and who is less, then the most damaged are those who have never dared to enter an apartment, nor have they received a solution about any social or any other apartment. So all those who built private houses, and all these people who were in a position to stay as protected tenants, had and so many benefits from that, had small rents and could solve many of their own issues of housing and others. Well, they didn't build houses with the rest of the cottages. Those who built houses didn't usually build cottages. When you talk about units of local self-government, then you forget that these units of local self-government paid deposited land, land-deposited land charges that went only to the burden of units of local self-government. In this case, one part of the units of local self-government but not in that amount and so much as the amount of land deposited for huge amounts are still for local self-government units. When you talk about the various costs for which the state has the means and for which it does not have, then we must tell the truth that you could have handled it, and this law offers the possibility to really deprive what is property which a pro by this was never even disputed as property. Therefore, we need to speak honestly about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72404	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. Answer, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72405	I'll start from the last one. You could've handled it. Look, if we had solved everything, you wouldn't have had anything to solve, and then no government in Croatia would be needed at all. Therefore, this objection of yours, but completely pointless. Because there is not one government in the world, nor will there be, who has solved all the problems in her term. Therefore, I ask you in your personal interest that you no longer stand out and that you are not ashamed of yourself in public. You're right to say, however, that there are those who have spent 40 years in a housing fund in the former state, and they never got anything. That's right, that's right. And you're damaged, yes. They were paying and they didn't get anything. I, for one, have not yet organised such a group yet to exist as an association of citizens, and fortunately they are not looking for anything. So, I don't think they're even a problem. Well, as long as you're in power, don't call, you've got a lot of problems. Don't call for them to come to you as a problem, so they're looking for something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72406	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Stazic. Another replica after this debate. Dear colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72407	Thank you very much. So here, dear fellow Stazic, on several occasions in his address pointed out that the tenants were the most damaged. On the other hand, he hardly mentioned the owners of the apartments in any way. I don't know how the level of consciousness like that, I don't know how many twisting the thesis, I don't know how many switching to this power, and I don't know how many making excuses in other categories. So, not a single word to unproblem the owner's problem, but to trouble the equipment of the Armed Forces, to trouble the financing of HVO defenders, to trouble the financing of the Church and priests. Well, if your predecessors whose legal followers hadn't taken that away from neither the Church nor the citizens, we wouldn't have had these problems today. Today, therefore, the state faces the consequences of the rule of communism and solves these problems. And you instead of accepting it and covering yourself, you're still having a problem with it. When you're talking about individual and controversial speculatory cases here, then you're ignoring the fact that almost 90% are original owners. Then you ignore the fact that almost 50% of people have other, third or next real estate. Then you ignore the fact that the government is transferring the president of an association that stands for it, which represents the tenants, sells its private house, transfers the apartment to the daughter, buys another one in Zagreb and similar things. There's room to solve, and otherwise let's not put everything in the same basket, let's get rid of this 50%, we've solved all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72408	I would like to thank my colleague Skoric. I asked my fellow Stazic to stick to the subject, so here's another appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues. The answer of fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72409	I'm going to stick to the subject, responding to the replica in as much as it stuck to the subject, because I have to answer the line, to what was said, I can't talk about the law now, and the man was talking about something fifteen. He says I didn't trouble the owners. How could I not? I also said a solution, a state to deprive them. These people are in trouble and they need to be compensated financially. You're saying I've troubled the churches, the HVO, and I'm not the Speaker you don't understand. I haven't arrived. I only have 10 minutes. For example, I have not troubled the HDZ rule of the first 10 years. Privatization robbery, wealth, purchase of President Tudjman's apartment the day before the law was declared. I didn't trouble any of that. That's what I leave to his followers to wear on their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72410	I thank my fellow Stazic for this replica, the answer. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72411	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We in this House are representatives who should represent our citizens, their interests, make decisions and laws that will benefit them, correct longstanding injustices. It is precisely this law that should correct the long-standing injustice, and the law that we had to approach to change and supplement precisely because of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. One of you will say that they are in the interest of the owner. The owners are not satisfied with this Act because they would prefer to move out on the day of entry into force of this Act or to receive a market rent. So they're not satisfied. On the other hand, some will say that this law goes more on the hands of the tenants, but they are not satisfied either, they would not be in suspense after 5 years, they would like that as those who have entered the social housing in due time can buy out their rent rights. So this law doesn't protect either one or the other. The injustice that was done was done by the state. It's all coming to us now, and it's time to finally get rid of it. What we're doing now, we've started counting, as counterpart Bacic says, blood cells. Well, then it will be said that the owners are no longer the original owners, their heirs, but that among the owners we have those who are at their own time as so-called. War profiters for some small money bought that right. Well, then the other side will be told those same owners that in the apartments we have tenants holding cats, who have beautiful apartments with 100 squares, and they own 1, 2, 3 properties, that in such apartments we haven't placed any scientists or athletes who have passed a good vote on our country. The cargo is in the country. I would disagree here, first of all, when it is said how much money will be needed to, says the funds needed to implement the law. There's 47 million kuna. We saw that he ruled the court in favor of the owner. How many more lawsuits can there be after this law is passed. So we can, I'm afraid, sue the owners, and we can be sued by these tenants. Therefore, one good analysis would be needed. Maybe a call. Here, I know in particular that there is only one, fortunately, such case in my city, but it has not been recorded in any books or in the Ministry or in our city. Perhaps now that this has become so many calls for units of local self-government to call both owners and those living in those apartments, to see exactly what the situation would be like, a blood count and then the state to see what it can do. No one mentioned today that the state owns over 6,000 apartments. What about those apartments? Maybe it wouldn't be bad for one of them to offer one such apartment for a replacement. From the state budget, I'm afraid, it won't be enough to single out just 47 million kunas if the charges go down. And this law doesn't seem to solve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have one replica. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72413	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. Well, it's nice to hear that you don't actually share your club's opinion here, you said yourself, and that's what I mentioned in one previous replica, actually this law is not good, first of all. And the law doesn't really solve the problem the way it really should be solved in a way that both sides are satisfied, but that they're really solved, means that the owners are returned to their apartments, and that the tenants are again, in a way, not becoming a social case. That's first of all. You said yourself, right now, and you repeated that thesis that didn't do the analysis. No good analysis has been done, which is a prerequisite for passing some law. And here, you've agreed with me here, and that's why I see that, I'm afraid, or I'm glad that this law will not be like this, passed like this, but that it will go in one completely different direction, what we stand for, and what we've actually been talking about all along, and on our part there have been a lot of constructive proposals, and I believe that it will go, actually in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72414	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Answer, colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72415	I need to correct you, my fellow Alfirev. I share the club's opinion. In front of the Bačić Club, he said that he suggested that units of local self-government be called in, to see and analyse all of them once again so that they could go to another reading and that all the suggestions and remarks on this Law that we heard today be considered once again well before the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72416	Thank you for your response. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72417	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. The law represents, in fact, one bone thrown between protected tenants and tenants, and the state washes its hands, washes it for 28 years, so it washes both now and no government is exculpatory about it, however, what is the basic question, which is why it is now so hasty. Because before us is a confusing, unspoken and from the hill, from the valley, a draft proposal, a bill. Why do you want to pass this law so quickly now? Because it is obvious that the European Court of Human Rights ruling is not the one that prompted this law to be passed. Because I note that in addition to this verdict, there is another European Court of Human Rights ruling that gave the tenants the right, as far as their right to live in apartments owned by other persons. Is this a fair solution or not, obviously not, because Mr. Secretary of State, he was here nice and warm and down in Mark's square there were 100 people of later life to minus 8 who apparently angry injustice made them come to Zagreb at this time, to clearly show their dissatisfaction. If the law were balanced and balanced, as the secretary of state claims, they wouldn't be here. If he had been balanced and balanced and had not and were therefore the owners of those who are not satisfied with the decision of this law, then they would have been owners, and they were not, therefore, seen that the law is not balanced, that it is concluded in haste and is now a matter of interest. So there's an interest behind every law. The European Court of Human Rights ruling is not the one that obviously led to the fact that we now want to pass this law at this speed. So if I'm a good interpreter and a speech on behalf of the Club of Honorable Representative Bačić, and it's not even in HDZ, they're not very happy with such a rule of law. When laws are passed, when laws are passed, then it is necessary, that the effect of this law does not create a new injustice and that is what this law will do. It will lead to 10,000 people ending up on the street after five years. And that's something that obviously Mr. Secretary of State doesn't care, because it whispers and doesn't comment, and I think it's worth hearing this and hearing suggestions, which the opposition thinks would be just and fair, because clearly this is not a law that is just and just. The tenants and owners are not in any relationship. There's no legal relationship between the two of them. There's a relationship between the state and the owner and there's a relationship between the state and the tenant. And therefore, I expect these two to agree is something that is illusory. They will do as the state commands them and how the state makes the law. But this law doesn't follow that logic, that both should be as happy as it is. This is obviously where the scale weighs on the other side. Therefore, when we talk about the method of compensation, the simplest way is the compensation of the owner, which is, therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, obviously, that he is satisfied with some other logic of nationalisation and everything else, that there is a fund in the state that will damage the owners of the dwellings, and that the owners will then be able to buy those apartments, by then, will it be according to those rules that were valid there in the '90s. Or someone else, or they'll become a leper, how they'll buy the flats. Will there be a leprechaun that the owners of the apartments will receive compensation, in my opinion, at a real price, whether immediately or in the wars, that's what this law should have done. Let me just point out, it's not unusual. I will remind you of our history, where Croatia during the President Franjo Tudjman, has committed to return the property, which can be returned to the Catholic Church and the rest that it cannot pay in money or replacement properties. I remind you that Jadranka Kosor is on behalf of the government and Cardinal Josip Bozanić on behalf of the Croatian Diocese Conference that they have agreed on a model of appropriate compensation for seized property and for part of the goods that cannot be returned to the Catholic Church. Thus, the budget took over something that could not have been realized in such a way as to restore real estate. So it's possible to solve this problem in a different way than by this way where you simply burden solving the problem, instead of being a burden on the state budget, you transfer unprotected tenants. You said we were bound by the European Court of Human Rights ruling, that we were obliged to carry out this verdict, correct. But I would quote you, which you probably know, but for the other MPs, the final part of the verdict, I quote, it's not the task of the court to determine which way, rights, employers and tenants should be mutually balanced. The Court has already identified the main shortcomings in existing legislation and this is an inadequate level of protected rent in terms of legal financial burdens imposed on the tenants, restrictive conditions for the cancellation of the protected lease and not becoming any time limit in relation to the protection of the rental system. And what is crucial is what I would like to refer to by the State Secretary, subject to the supervision of the Committee of Ministers of State, can freely choose the means to fulfil its obligations under Article 46 for the purpose of carrying out this judgment. So the state will be able to choose its own way of carrying out this verdict. Here, as you can see, there are no deadlines, so there are no deadlines for execution, but what had to be done and it was necessary to draw up and adopt an action plan in which the state will address how the verdict is carried out. Therefore, this is what the state was obliged to do, so again I note that the verdict is not the one that triggered the desire to get rid of this law. And notice, laws that regulate vital life issues can only be changed to the burden of the budget, not to the burden of the people. The state has a duty to resolve this, but fair. And every smart government, every determined government this law would not first propose, and secondly, if it were proposed, it would withdraw it because it is deeply unfair, it does not offer a fair solution. And yet again, it is a fair solution for the state to pay through the budget the owners of the apartments, and that the owners of the apartments have the right to buy these apartments in those regulations as they were when others bought the apartments. And that is the only thing that is justly balanced and what the European Court of Human Rights verdict says. Whether or not you will do so, I trust HDZ and undecided Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that this law will not see another reading very quickly because it causes great problems in the public, and as far as I know, the prime minister is very careful about his image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72418	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72419	Dear Representative Mrsic. The former Yugoslavia, or socialist social order, sought to establish a classless society. In that society, the idea was similar to that of the apostolic church that advocated Jesus and his followers, which is to give everyone what they needed and to contribute to the community as much as they could. And this is the original redistribution where, for example, those who have two properties, three properties or ten apartments took nine and were given to those who do not have one. However, such a solution was not a permanent solution because these dwellings were not given ownership but were given the right to reside in them. And what's going on? We're coming up with a change in social policy, and suddenly a part of the people can buy out, part not, obviously to those who haven't been wronged on that side. But the question arises, why did the SDP in two terms until he was in power say, here's the lady and gentlemen you chose us to correct that wrong HDZ policy, to correct the injustice why didn't you solve that problem then? You could've given the original owners of their apartments, and you could've given the housing team replacements. You could even rent them apartments, you didn't necessarily have to give them property. Why? Because then you would permanently solve their problem because you would be in state housing rather than leaving them in private apartments and actually this situation that we find today is the result of your inaction that went on yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72420	I thank my colleague Pernar. A colleague's answer, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72421	Thank you very much. In 2002, he was probably not a parliamentary representative, you were probably at school, then the government tried to solve this problem, he has a proposal for a legal solution where it went with the compensation of the tenants and owners, but failed to resolve it because neither of the others wanted to agree to this model. Therefore, the government tried to resolve it, failed. Now it's also done by this government not taking our experience that it's not a success in solving it. But Mr. Uhlir's solution is the only one that we advise you, the compensation fund to pay off the apartments to the owners, and that those who are inside to buy those apartments. Why won't you? God knows. Probably for his own particular reasons. But anyway, Mr. Pernar, she tried to get rid of herself, but she couldn't get rid of herself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72422	I thank you for your response to my colleague Mrssic. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72423	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic. In your debate, you found that the owners were obviously more satisfied with the bill's proposal than the tenants. I don't know why you came to such a conclusion. If you came on the grounds that they were not in front of the Croatian Assembly today, then I think that this is the wrong way to reach conclusions. I personally received representatives and associations that protect the right of the owner and talked to them, got a bunch of e-mails and them as well as the tenants, and I must tell you that the owners are just as unhappy with this proposal as the tenants, that they are actually bitter at the Croatian state, which has been solved for almost 30 years, that they feel the same way as second-class citizens that they can't own their property. And we can't calculate who's more satisfied or unhappy here, that's not our job. I don't think you'd be too happy if you had to pay your son or daughter rent or subsistence and walk past your own apartment that you couldn't. So I don't think our mission here is to take sides with one or the other, to create an even greater dissension between them because the problem is complex enough in itself. Our job is to try and find the best model to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72424	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72425	Dear colleague Jelkovac, you've told the truth now. Whether you want to say it or not means that if they're not satisfied with each other, that means that the law is not good, that the law is not balanced. But still looking at the reactions, I received both as president of the Labour Committee. What you see now is that still those who own apartments may be a little bit more unsatisfactory than these others, and these others are absolutely dissatisfied and again I say they will after five years 10,000 people will go to the street. And that's something that's absolutely true. So, you've said what's obviously your problem, too, that the law like HNS planted you like a coward's egg and that now you don't know how to get out of it, because yet the majority of the congregation is the majority. But you said exactly that the law is no good for either one or the other. And it's obvious that the government, or state, must be the one to resolve it. But again, I note that the simplest way, that is, for me, is my personal opinion of how it should be resolved, is that the budget should be planted, that the budget, if we could damage the owners of companies that were nationalized, if we could damage the Catholic Church, if we could defuse the Orthodox Church, we could also damage those owners to receive just compensation. Why didn't it work in 2002? Because that fair fee was only 25% of the value of the apartment and then, naturally, they wouldn't agree to it. Here we go with a different logic, where instead of putting up with the budget and the state, the burden goes to the back of protected tenants. It's not fair, it's not human, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72426	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72427	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic, here you have opened only one side of the medal through your exhibition. My colleague mentioned here, so both sides, and we're trying to figure out a way to bring two opposing and uncompromising positions closer together. How do you solve the problem? The fact that this law will allow the Croatian state to fulfil its duty to victims of a totalitarian communist regime where people have been deprived of property rights that they have gained through their efforts and pains, and this is a step towards establishing that balance. At no time have I heard from either of you, or from anyone who owns or renters who already have one or more properties in their possession. Is the state supposed to reward them and give them another apartment? The state should compensate the owners, and it is inappropriate to call here for a verdict in Strasbourg. As far as I know, it's only the Lemo case for the Dubrovnik apartments. So the social property apartments used by the tenants where the customer wanted to throw them out and were later sentenced to their advantage in Strasbourg. So it's about housing in social property. No, private property what we're talking about here all the time. It is also inappropriate today to place a group and their protest in the context of their greater threat when we know that in December there was also a protest by the owners and it was much greater, so long before this topic came on the agenda. Therefore, there is no need to manipulate people's feelings here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72428	I thank my colleague Škorić. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72429	Comrade Škorić, you said nothing new only you confirmed what we have been saying all along that the law is not good, that the law is not fair and that the law will make new injustices in this long saga that lasts 28 years. I mentioned Lemo's verdict just to say that there are both sides of the medal and that, looking at both sides, we have to be just, so both have equal treatment with this law. This law clearly doesn't have the same treatment for each other. Both are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, property is unhurtful, but again on the other hand, I note examples when the state was depriving the factory owners again we return to the Catholic Church, we will return to the Jewish, therefore, community. Therefore, there was a will and desire to resolve it. What caused this problem is a law problem that, back in the 1990s, apparently generated all the problems we now have. But that's the past, those laws were passed by HDZ. Why? For what? Those who brought it back in those days know best. But apparently, by one law now, by trying to correct the injustices, we are doing the wrongs of 10,000 people that we are going to drive out on the street by the move of the law. What I hope warmly is that common sense will prevail in this part, so foreign Parliament, that this law will not see another reading, that it will be completely, completely different. I note that the European Court of Human Rights, again, did not define how we will do it. He defined that this approach must be balanced, and here it is not balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72430	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72431	After a poorly-founded debate, it is quite clear that the position of the European Court of Human Rights is only an apology, an apology to the Government to come out with this law. The court does not determine how this problem is solved, and at the very least it suggests that the problem is solved as addressed by the government. And how does the government handle it? I quote the law: "The protected tenant and protected tenants referred to in paragraph 1 of this article who have ceased to have protected the rent and other rights of protected tenants are obliged to move out of the apartment...", I repeat, they are obliged to move out of the apartment, "...at the latest by 1 July 2023 if they did not enter into a new lease with the tenant or the owner of the apartment." Now, if the tenant, the protected tenant, or the predominant tenant, doesn't move out of the apartment within the time limit of what we said, then the tenant or the owner of the apartment can file an eviction suit to the competent court. And what does that mean, dejection? That means a lot of work for a colleague of Pernar, a lot of work. Those days and nights will have to be in the field, day and night. And that's the only thing this law will achieve. And don't tell me now that these raids are a court of human rights order in Strasbourg. Well, it's a court of law a little bit more serious than a stupid recommendation like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72432	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72433	That fellow Stazic, we've been trying to convince his colleagues here all day in the first row from HNS because it's their law and colleagues from HDZ are being made there as the innocent bystander, so innocent observers. The European Court of Human Rights has made it very clear to this case. And if we pass a law like this, we'll probably have a lawsuit on the other side, so it's from the ones who are the tenants when they're put down. And what if the European Court of Human Rights, Mr. Uhlir, can turn your head all you want but you know that it is not you who will decide whether to press charges against the European Court of Human Rights. And if the European Court of Human Rights estimates that this law is therefore unbalanced and that it has not responded to what the ruling of the body means that both of them realize what they wanted. So that's what the intensity of this verdict is. And what's quite security, Mr. Uhlir probably won't be a secretary of state but someone else will have to blush in front of the European Court of Human Rights in 2018, a law that led to discrimination on the same subject that one of the others was protected and that others who were protected were left on the street. What would also be interesting to see if this law had passed an assessment of the legal effects, whether this law was on public consultation, whether this law was supported by all resolutions in the government or whether this law had skipped some resolutions and went directly through coordination only to be in the Parliament today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72434	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go. ... Comrade Maras, I'd like to ask you nicely if I notice any misbehaving and a representative of the government, and so do you, and you've just been misbehaved, you could come to me and tell me so, you don't have to,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Faster yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please, don't interrupt the session and distract your colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. My colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please, I apologize on behalf of my colleagues for interrupting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72435	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, you are the first in this entire debate to have a little reference to the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Statileo case against Croatia. Indeed, the secretary of state kept the three elements of the verdict all the time, not including the fourth element. I have a summary here that says that the European Court of Justice has concluded that the current legislation imposes an excessive individual burden on owners because they are forced to bear most of the social and financial costs of housing the protected tenant. So the state transferred its obligation to the owners and there are four elements. The first element is the unlimited duration of the contract, so during the time the verdict was, Mr. Statileo, or those who submitted the request died and for 55 years he could not use his property. Then the second topic is a very restrictive setting of possibilities for termination of the contract. The third subject is an inappropriately low rent whose amount is clearly disproportionate to the level of market rent and fourth subject, and which you have also talked about the lack of appropriate procedural guarantees through which the owners of the apartments could achieve protection of their own interests or that would enable the achievement of a balance between the conflicting interests of the tenants and the tenants. That in this law, or this bill of law, this balance has been established in some way, we would certainly not be discussing this all day long until late evening hours. So it is undeniable and should not be disputed at any time regarding property. But it is also undeniable that this ruling against, where Statileo v. Republic of Croatia has made it clear that the state is its obligation, says owners had to bear, still bear most of the social and financial costs of housing. That means...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72436	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72437	Thank you very much. So here, after 4, 5 hours of debate, we have touched on these European Court of Human Rights rulings, which was basically the duty of the Secretary of State to meet the parliamentary deputies if they had not had the opportunity to see, to read that verdict on the web and to Mr. Uhlir it is so that we remember that affair in the city's assembly when he forgot to mention that some of the papers were interrupted, as I remember these times, so there is damage to that headship, so that I hope that the secretary state, except for the smiles, will not one day and we have a problem, since he has proposed such a law, which leads to the fact that it offends certain human rights and that if such a proposal is passed, we will have problems at the European Court of Human Rights because we will have to explain why we have delegated 10,000 people after 5 years of age and that the court has made it very clear to us how we will resolve it. Obviously, the secretary of state has knowingly broken, i.e. knowingly forgotten that, if anything, just read this last paragraph that is very clear and very illustrative. To repeat, the European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that it is the state that has to do its job and that the methods it will use are balanced, and which methods each country will determine for itself. Apparently the secretary of state has a syncope.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72438	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72440	Thank you, Vice President. It will be difficult for me to speak after such an inspiring debate by my fellow Pernar. Anyway, let's get serious on the subject. So, what I've been saying before, and now that he's mentioned Robespierre looks like a Roman senator, "Kartag needs to be destroyed" so do I. This law sucks, it just doesn't work. I've been talking these days, a colleague, I think a colleague of Jelkovac called for talks with citizens' associations and I've also had a chance to talk to citizens' associations these days, but also with citizens individually. There are indeed such cases that you can't trust your ears or your eyes when you see and hear what people are saying, starting with an older lady being at the same time about and a protected tenant and the role of the owner in which she has a protected tenant apartment in which she has a protected tenant. So it's such an absurd situation that they don't get rid of each other on a flat-rate basis. What's the characteristic of this bill is that he's unprepared for coming here. And I'm not clear ok with the judgment of Scatileo etc. but I don't understand that the verdict is four years old at the end of the year, in 2014, the procedure was conducted and the verdict was passed, but I don't understand at the end of the ballad which is why we are now on our noses to pass this law, without even how public debates and other parts should be carried out. Secondly, it is evident that this bill simply draws the state out, comes out of the whole story and transfers all the burden to the back and I will say free Croatian orphanages both of them, I mean the owners of apartments and I mean protected tenants. So the state has no right to do so, so it ends up with you, and in this judgment here, colleagues Mrsic and colleagues Stazic and colleagues Škorić quoted her, which is why she writes to you in this judgment. Secondly, isn't it resonating, if we're going to change some law in thoughtfully, that at the same time the other ministry is selling apartments that are a government portfolio, and let's not try to solve this situation with those apartments. It's the opposite of any healthy logic to do it that way. It's a waste of state resources and it's irresponsible behavior after all towards state property. The third thing, I understand for the CNS, all absolutely everything, I often call them and Colloquially a Croatian unnecessary party, and I understand for them that they care not at all about the electoral body but to favor the interests of certain ones, but I do not understand that HDZ as a mere party can allow such a thing and when it comes to owners I also say when it comes to protected tenants. This is a completely wrong move. We're not gonna settle anything with a law like this. We are against this law not from some principle firm but because this law does absolutely nothing. The law will produce thousands of court disputes in the future, and will also produce major damages to the state. In the end, the state will pay again what it avoids. I don't understand logic, I just don't get it. So the result of this law will be that about nine, ten, twelve, eighteen or one man will end up on the street. Croatia as a social state should not allow it in any case. So Croatia should be responsible for its citizens, it is a constitutional obligation, I don't need it, it reminds you of that. We are both a democratic and social state, a home is non-injurious, therefore such a law is not prepared, without valid data ultimately, without analysing the situation. You say it yourself, the owners of the apartments protested, and the protected tenants protested. So whose interests are you pushing here, if they're against each other? Although I know on the other hand that the owners of the apartments are for it. Yesterday, an open letter was sent to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, where the Spring Association has made it clear that it is in favour of the law, although in the towers these people will tell you that they too think that the law does not solve anything. But there's a step, anywhere, even if it's a break-in. So neither the law solves this, it will produce new social injustices, here are colleagues who have been rebelling over social housing in Dubrovnik and Zagreb, and in principle the whole story will end with 10, 12 000 people on the street. So how long are we gonna take a break here when it's late? I invite you all to be responsible people, after all, we all have to walk down the street tomorrow, and we all need to look, we're going to meet these citizens, we need to look them in the eye. We should explain to the 75, 80-year-olds why we, by our decision, moved our laws into the street. We need to explain to these others why he's been unable to handle his real estate for many years. Besides, an important property feature if I'm not mistaken is property. These people aren't even owned by real estate owners today. And now my colleague Topolko when she spoke on behalf of the CNS, she said on more than one occasion, and we're not even returning the entire property, but we're returning part by piece, so we didn't take credit with us, God's people, come on. Make that law as God commands, that the data be in it as it should be, as it is in the field, and this information about 3,500, 3 and something, will tell you both, so that it doesn't match the truth. And don't call the units of local self-government, there's a much stronger institution in the Republic of Croatia that can very easily determine what is what, which was sold, which was bought, etc., and called the Tax Administration, is an integral part of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72441	I thank my esteemed colleague Vidovic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72442	Comrade Vidovic, where's the problem? The problem is, this problem could have been avoided without being avoided. He told your colleague that the SDP in 2002 wanted to propose a solution to the tenants but that he failed, why? Well, like because they both couldn't agree. Well, it's not the role of the government to fulfill 100% of everyone's wishes, it's impossible. The SDP was supposed to find a compromise solution because I met a part of those tenants and they say to me we don't want any other apartment, we really want that apartment. I told them people, you're not real. And you should have told those tenants, people you're not real, it's not real to go into possession or own something that's from someone else if that other guy doesn't want to give it to you. And instead of just cutting that Gordian knot, if you said listen, here's a state flat, you left here a debate for a better time that will never come and now it's time to 2023 they all fly out. So, you didn't solve the problem because you couldn't make a deal with them, and in the end HDZ will solve it and then what? Eat the donkey wolf. And one more thing, a colleague of the HDZ told you well. He said gentlemen of the SDP, you are a legal follower of those who have created this problem in large part, and thus your responsibility for solving this problem was greater. And since you didn't solve it that way, now the HDZ comes with a guillotine, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72443	I thank Mr. Pernar with Robespierre. Answer, dear colleague Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72444	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, you are a young man, I respect you. I am saddened that you know much better French history than you have now exhibited than you know Croatian history. So you're not headed into this problem. And you're talking casually. These apartments are not only the fruit of the Yugoslav communist rule, they are apartments that have been stretching since the Kingdom of Yugoslavia since the 30s, then via NDH, then finally... But you didn't tell me now, so let me speak now, I listened to you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] As for the SDP, the SDP offered a compromise proposal at a time when real estate prices were far lower and when it was easier to resolve, where we were wrong, and colleagues obviously do not want to learn from our mistakes, then I did not behave to God as I have never, except at the local level, it was that we were going with too little compensation in terms of real estate prices, too little compensation was also against the protected tenant and relative to the owner himself. And that's why no other group wanted to agree. But you will agree with me that this problem was caused by the basic state. And as you say to us that we are someone's legal followers, okay, I don't know whose legal follower I am except Fabian Vidovic, on the other hand, so I can tell you that the Republic of Croatia is also the legal follower of the Socialist Republic, so what happened in that country, and the Socialist Republic is the legal follower of some kind of Banovina of Croatia, so what happened in those periods, thank God, no one is NDH, what happened in those periods, clearly we suffer today. But that is the obligation of the state to its citizens, not as Mrs. Topolko said, there are three sides, citizens, owners of protected tenants and states. The state is no party, the state has caused a problem and the state needs to address the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72445	I thank my colleague Vidovic for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72446	Dear fellow Vidovic, isn't the reference of this law in the procedure the greatest proof of the disorder, the dysfunction of our society, or our institutions? Because I believe that you will go to the Venice archives, you will know the sequence of ownership in most of the area, or the territory of Istria. To go to Vienna, you will find a series of properties for the many houses we are talking about today. If you go to Constantinople, you will find the history of Slavonia for the Turkish era, what we don't even know exists there. So is it possible that after 27 years of the state, we don't have a list of protected tenants? Is it possible that after 27 years we don't have a list of inhabitable apartments? Because flats under the burden are considered inconclusive apartments. So these are categories, legally some categories that have to exist, just have to exist. And these stories, the stories of ideological events, the three families, are among the protected tenants in '45. Throwed out like Folksdojchers from their apartments. Now, they got these apartments after 10 years. So first they're out of the communists and now the very children of those communists are going to get kicked out of these apartments again because they couldn't get a social apartment because they had a settled housing issue. So it's people absurd, we have to figure it out and then go solve this problem, count, define sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72447	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. The answer of my colleague Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72448	I agree with you, yes. And this is basically not about the owners of the apartments, not about the protected tenants, this is about the effectiveness of this government. They're not able to get ahead of us with data on how many apartments there are, who's in those apartments, how many of them are nursing homes, how many people are some people who might be able to borrow, how many are the owners of the original, how many are the owners of the shoppers, which is the same property, so someone doesn't think I'm slowing down property. So none of that data we've heard but we're doing it on a flat-rate basis, the class is 5 grand, 13 grand, 3 grand, 8, 13 even. Well, according to the way someone thinks about it, there's so many of them, obviously. Well, I mean, at least it's irresponsible, at the disposal of state property. The other thing is, one law should also build a housing program. Where's that? It's nothing, you don't care about that, it's not your job? That's your first league. So leave the citizens, throw them out on the street, and nothing, let them walk down the street, if it snows, that's better, they'll get colder, I guess they'll get the flu, and we'll get rid of them. I mean, I don't think that's the insolence you're showing. That's the mother's son I've never seen anywhere before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72449	I thank my esteemed colleague Frank Vidovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic is not present. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72450	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. Here it has been mentioned several times today, the various judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. But I'd like you to meet the other side of the medal as well as the possible future services, so it's possible constitutionality, the assessment of the constitutionality of your law. Namely, I hold in my hand the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 29 August 2014 in the case pending in connection with the judgment of the Municipal and County Court in Sibenik. The D.A. was filed by one of the owners of the apartment where the protected tenant lives and requested an emigration. Among other things, she asked for eviction because the protected rent didn't pay the rent for 14 years. The rent is 150 kuna and she has not paid that rent for 14 years. And the owner of the apartment asked her to move out. The Sibenik municipal court ruled that the protected rent should be evicted. She complained to the County Court with the claim that she did not know what account to pay that rent, that the owner had never taken an interest in the apartment and, among other things, complained that she was a sick person who had a pension of 600 kuna. The County Court in Sibenik confirmed the municipal court's ruling that the protected lease must be delegated. She complained to the Constitutional Court and told the Constitutional Court that this apartment in which she lives is her only home and that she has nowhere else to be and called on the article of the Constitution 34, which reads: "The house is invulnerable." The Constitutional Court is this date that I gave you a statement stating among other things the loss of home is the most extreme form of interference in the right to respect home but nevertheless this issue is not automatically imposed in every forced-moving dispute but is the party's duty to refer to it. If, during the proceedings before the court, an objection to interference in its right to respect home by a measure of forced emigration is expressed, it must be ensured that an independent court assesses the proportionate and proportionate nature of such a proposed measure, regardless of the existence of a legal basis. The Constitutional Court abolishes both judgments and returns them to the Municipal Court. So that story that this is only about the right of ownership, that it's only about one point of the Constitution and that all other points of the Constitution you can ignore it is simply not true. You have counter-judgments and you will have them when these same protected tenants also go to the European Court of Human Rights. You're not offering a solution. You're looking at things unilaterally. Your MPs, as far as I could hear here, were just reading what they got from the apartment owners' associations. They read it, so they clearly took a stand on whose side they are, and in this case it's not easy to take sides. I would also like to remind you, once again, that all protected tenants have paid housing contributions in the former state, and that social housing has been redeemed since 1991 and that wars are still coming into the state budget from people who buy these apartments. It's worth 3m euros a month. It's about 3,000 families. You wrote in your explanation that each family has an average of 62 square meters. We see clearly from these arguments how they live in 100 squares and I don't know what, they're not right. Because the average size of the apartment is 62 square meters. These are your numbers. If we went to build 3,000... Apartments, 60 square meters, brand-new, at this price that is currently valid on the Croatian market, building 3000 business apartments would cost you a billion and a half kuna at the most. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In five years, 300 million kunas a year. That amount of 300 million kuna, you cover up the money you get from selling social housing. And that money is intended, so that money can't be spent by your ministry the way it wants to be, but I'll read it to you correctly. 24. The house sale law, in which there is a household law, paragraph 1, 90% of the funds obtained by selling social housing, should be used to obtain apartments, to move apartments and apartments in private ownership, to pay compensation to previous owners for forced repossessed property, to compensate the tenants, to the owners of the apartment in cases of specific regulations. So you have the money. You don't have to ask for any special money in the budget, because at least you're in debt. And what do you offer protected tenants? You offer them 8 million kuna a year. In a mere dictionary, you offer them peanuts, you offer them nothing. You say 2023 it'll be settled, Mr. Darling... and the ruling parliamentary majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you have truly come to terms with this problem, please resolve it during your term of office. Your term of office expires on 11.9.2020. You're welcome to solve this problem by that date. Then we'll believe in your intentions. Don't transfer those problems to another government. Because you, in the end, know what can happen, tomorrow you won't be in power, some new government will change your law. They'll change it, because they still have time to change it, because it's still going to take a deadline. You're actually putting the owners you're supposed to be up for in suspense. And it's possible that this law, which you vote tomorrow or I don't know when you'll never actually live in practice and you know it very well. This problem has to be solved, so within a maximum of two years, and that would be fair, and that would be brave. So you would gain this credibility that your mouth is full of, among other things, for the title of your pre-election program, in which you have even promised that there will be no action. If Mr. Uhlir, you and your ruling majority, throw people on the road, we'll defend them from the Living Wall, I promise you that. And by all means of law and our bodies and you will have the opportunity to watch the results of your works. And I call you to reasonableness, don't let that happen. Someone here is joking, ironically, that the Living Wall will have work to do, but we'll certainly do it well. I urge you once again to find a solution to protected tenants, in a way that they can be taken care of, in as many civilized and humane ways as possible. That would be fair for that reason, I call you once again, it's still not too late, you withdraw this law, you put a moratorium on it, you hold negotiations with different parties, with stakeholders, with independent experts, with lawyers and you return this law to the assembly, without it having to cause protests on the first day when it is debated at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72451	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for this debate. We have a few replicas, Comrade Pernar, did you report for the replica? Yeah, then okay. The first came to the line, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72452	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bunjac, quoting this verdict, the Constitutional Court, somehow reminded me of yesterday's, yesterday's verdict was published in the daily press, where he said that no matter how pension is obtained, even on the basis of false medical findings that the acquired right to receive a pension cannot be restricted. So the deadline for the revision can't last indefinitely, it has to be limited, etc. Here, on the other hand, we have each other's bankruptcy rights, which is the right to a home or the right to a residence. How do you think the Constitutional Court will judge, when protected tenants object to their right, their right to a home and the right to housing is threatened or restricted against their will. I, of course, disagree with this decision of yesterday's Constitutional Court, respect those two constitutional judges who have been excluded from their opinion, because I think that if something is obtained, it is obtained on the basis of false documents, when damage is done to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because their incomes are being reduced that they can never be considered acquired law because it is somehow acquired by criminal acts. But this is a completely different story, and this is where the citizens are brought into this position and the only thing they have that home and they've acquired the right to live in that home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72453	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72454	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. Your comparison is very good. So in this country it's allowed, that someone falsely presents himself as a disabled person and that after a certain period of time, they can no longer be punished, given that it wasn't proven to him in time. And the people who have lived since 1935 in one apartment for them have no statute of limitations, so that they live until the day of judgment. We see that there is an age for cut-off leg in the Rijeka hospital, where a man's life is destroyed and no more law, no more European Union, can be ruled by human rights courts in his favour. We also see that there are statutes in some other criminal acts, that some people I don't know against have never been charged with, we're going into obsolescence again. And in this case, therefore, there is no statute of limitations although many are neither guilty nor obliged to find themselves in a situation where they simply could not influence the solution. People therefore simply live their lives, accept the situation as it is, and then at just one moment some authority appears and then everything they have lived in life and possibly in what they believe has never been, a cloth and says, "Here you are today, doing what you know and can do." This should not be done by the responsible State, at least not by the State that advocates justice, and especially by social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72455	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72456	Dear counterpart Bunjac, the government's solution has one thing to say to the weak spot. Says my colleague Hrelja that one. There are more, but one of them is that you are now suggesting that protected tenants will pay the full price of the rent. So here's what I'm asking you if a 50-square apartment in Zagreb lives a pensioner with, say, 1800 kuna, from which she will pay the economic price of rent and direct and food, etc.? What this law will result in is nothing but a social disaster. The rows in front of the soup kitchen will be even bigger, and could happen to be filled places in the shelter if this passes. And the Living Wall is not going to resist these accommodations because we're against the owner, but because the state doesn't want to damage the tenants, and it should. It's not the owners who are responsible for this problem or the tenants. It's the state's fault, and we all know it here. And the state, unfortunately, wants to solve this problem in a way that is not acceptable to us. Maybe you're in HNS and HDZ, and you're saying there's no money. Later in the debate, I will explain the solution of the Living Wall, where the money for the housing of the tenants and ultimately the compensation of the owners if they are not the original owners. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72457	I thank my colleague Pernar. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72458	Representative Pernar, so the ruling majority, one good part of their MPs can't understand that everything more than 100 kuna is our citizens' problem today. So every account that's bigger than 100 kuna for them is a burden. They can't stand 20 kunas more if they have to pay for something, let alone increased rents or watch what MP Klaric says today. Please listen to this. Take your loans and buy your apartments. Imagine what it is, what thinking it is, what haughtiness it is. That's right at the level of one lawyer who recently said pay the bills, so there won't be any executions. I mean, that's philosophy. I don't know woodcutters. You understand? I don't know how else to express myself. Yes, the truth woodcutters are very, the woodcutter is a very honorable profession. Excuse me, yes. And as it's called, I'd like Mr. Uhlir who is a member of the CNS to once again show the seal and signature of his party where it says they won't be moving protected tenants. Here, look, it's your client's signature. Why are you giving it up now? How can you speak to each other today and tomorrow the other. What kind of policy is it that before 11.6 you say you'll be opposed to actions, and then after that you pass a law that introduces actions, that you write in the electoral program, we'll introduce the Agraran Bank, and where is the Agrarna Bank? To enter the Assembly with the SDP, and now you kiss HDZ's feet. It's a policy that's for every conviction, and that's how your law will go unless his conscience works at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72459	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72460	Dear counterpart Bunjac, means that such a long-standing debate all day, in fact, according to this agenda point, is actually the consequence that the consequence of this bill is here before us because it is completely unspeakable. He definitely doesn't take care of these two sides, he's written like that, he's proposed so he doesn't take care of anyone you've just spoken to. If a law like this remains that he will have exactly the consequence of you pointing out that a large number of current protected tenants will be found on the street and that you would in that case do a very good job of yours. However, I think that at this point we should do so so that this law does not come, that it does not vote, and that it does not come into force, and I hope that we here that the opposite party that is now advocating this law will raise awareness of all these problems that the proposed law is carrying and will do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72461	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72462	Thank you very much. Dear MPs. It's really not about what a party will get, what its rating will be, what it will be with it through some reasonable time, but the thing is that we as representatives of the people are working in the interests of that people. If you're already pulling me by the tongue, my closest family has nationalized three apartments and four business spaces, we never got them back. If we got them back, maybe we could enjoy the rent and maybe we wouldn't even have to work. We have received some shares of truth that are worthless, and even the nominal amount is not nearly as valuable to them as these properties are. And what did we have to do now? We had to get into a fight with those who are currently in those apartments, those business spaces, we had to come up with dogs to force them out and call them communist-like criminals, and I don't know what kind of insults we haven't heard here today. No, no one in this matter should look at their own private interest, no one in this should look at their own party interest, but everyone should look at the general interest. If there are ten thousand, watch out for ten thousand, Croatian citizens in the situation that they will not sleep tonight because of this law proposed by the ministry, then we are definitely not on the right track and I call once again on this small hour not to support this law in the first reading. There's no time for anything to happen if we discuss it in two, three or four months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72463	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72464	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. The first thing I must note is that we boast with the openness of the Parliament with the Croatian Parliament being available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then when we have the opportunity to prove it in action and in practice let only two people from one association and another follow us here during the debate. Two people, and here today we saw over a hundred people who, for example, came from Split. So much for how the Parliament is open and how their representatives are available to citizens and the debate on issues that are very important to them. The other thing I want to say here is that we live in a country where there's a question of whether and how to deprive those we have in all justice, whether in this case they're owners or tenants, they wouldn't put a priority on it, but the fact that someone's finally going to have to be compensated, and we're asking whether or not they do it, and in what way they do it. And it's all so complicated and it's just that the tenants don't see that benefit because otherwise they wouldn't be protesting against it. If it were like Mr. Uhlir said, well, would anyone say that I don't want to, if they were all calm and able to sleep as their colleague Bunjac said last night or the next five years he intended them to be the last ones to be in those apartments. Doesn't anyone see it except Mr. Uhlir and the colleagues who propose that law, or is that not true? So choose which of these two is true, or Mr. Uhlir doesn't tell the truth, and people don't have to be calm and they won't be quiet, or none of them will live in this assembly alone, but of the thousands of people who follow these, tens of thousands of people who follow this thing nobody sees. I'd still more trust people who follow it and who are interested. But we live in a country where HDZ's most normal colleagues spend 3.5 billion kuna to replace old planes with old planes. Nobody cares, and nobody's weird, and nobody's asking the Secretary of Defense why we replaced old planes with old planes for 3.5 billion kuna. Is that, maybe here's my colleague, Boric? He's suffocating something. Is that someone weird? Yeah, and I think every normal one is something weird. Why, why... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72465	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72466	Mr. Babic, reach for democratic practice and say something, not throw it out of the bench. You have a tile, you pick up a tile and you say, you won't, so you don't have to, but don't even throw it away. It's the easiest way out of a bus when no one sees you jump into the dark, it's the easiest thing to do, but when you have to get on the stage, say something and then look at Mr. Babic and smile. So keep going. So it's not clear to anyone here, excuse me, maybe it's clear to the HDZ people why for 3.5 billion kuna we replace old planes with old planes and that Croatia can afford but find some money to deprive our tenants and owners of the apartments is a problem. 12 planes worth more than 10,000 people, that's your message today after this debate. 12 F-16 from the '80s and some, as if I'm listening to a song worth more to you than 10 thousand people from whom some 100ths and something here today froze in front of the Croatian Assembly. And then it's normal that no one believes you and then it's normal that you can't get support for this. And even the debates of the parliamentary majority are reserved today. I haven't heard anyone praise this bill, this solution. And then the question is also why do you insist that this solution continues. Which is why it is not possible to find what is minimum minimum to compensate owners or protected tenants. Of course, I would offer a solution to offer the owners compensation in the amount of the market. If they do not accept it then the rents are protected at the market discount price for what they could buy apartment like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s. Because they're not guilty, we've heard it 10 times today, it's not people's fault they got in that situation. It is scandalous that Lovro Kuščević characterizes people in this way as he characterized it. And instead of fenced from such statements, you're still relativizing things or as a minister, pardon Secretary of State Uhlir saying you've solved the problem. You haven't solved anything, and you probably won't solve anything. And I call here all those who are following us today to say clearly not this law, obviously we need an additional debate, and obviously we need a new solution that will be completely different from what we heard today. It is also amazing that a colleague from the government is speaking here today and is in a dependent position, i.e. he is not uninterested about the personal part because it is obvious today that he himself admitted to the pay phone that in a family story he is also one of the owners or co-owners of such a property. This also gives another dose of inconclusiveness to the proponent who, as if here, has found a solution that will pass and help the circle of people associated with them. It's also not good, it would be good if Stromar came here today to defend the law. We'd be much more convincing if you weren't a proposing in the position that Mr. Uhlir found himself in today. And then we ask our colleagues and colleagues why people have no confidence in the state, in the institutions of the state, in our judiciary, why they leave Croatia, why they are not satisfied with the government, '70% of our citizens are not satisfied with the government. So what happens if people have a feeling they're not being taken care of? If we're here in the Parliament here, we're counting down seconds to discuss the Rules of Procedure as soon as possible, Mr. Rainer is on the needles, he's waiting for a debate at a low start and we're going home. Even though it's three other laws, it's irrelevant, it's a situation that's here, and it's all kind of like we're doing things, like people don't look at us whose life it is, like it's life, you might not care, but those people who look at us, they don't care about life, and they don't care. [[There's another law after.]] It is a fascinating ease of uninterestedness and ruling MPs related to this problem which means a lot more to some than you could possibly imagine because you are probably not burdened with such problems as they are burdened with. And that's why I'm appealing to you if tomorrow is adopted to come as soon as possible, like this never, but that when there comes a solution that we can accept and a minimum of compensation is marketable, I said, first the owner and after that, if the owners refuse to do so then at the market price of protected tenants who could afford a decent accommodation and a home with that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72467	I thank my colleague Maras. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72468	Comrade Maras, I listened to your presentations and can agree with everything you said with a small note that the solution you proposed could have been implemented by the SDP in office while you were in power when you were minister that there was political will. And then the HNS could, of course, the same, but it didn't. However, the fact is that the SDP has not solved the problem. That the solutions you're proposing now, then you didn't suggest and that that's why we're in this situation today. You'll say maybe: that fellow Pernar, there was no money. But here, I'm asking you for a military mission in Afghanistan. So far, the Republic of Croatia has spent 2 billion kunas. The mission also lasted during the SDP's term of office. The SDP actually launched that military mission, yet the government of the Racan border. If you wanted to solve it then, you could have said this: instead of waring in Afghanistan, instead of issues in Hindus, let's solve the issue of tenants in Zagreb, for example. But you're all... When I hear from Plenkovic, Plenkovic says he will have the priority of solving Donjeck and Luganska, I grab my head. What you did back then, and what this government is doing now, deals with how it will solve the world's problems, and those that are ahead of me, the government doesn't see them. They're dealing with how they're gonna take care of the refugees, and they're not thinking about how they're gonna take care of the homeless. Or, after all, tenants who will become homeless. It's one policy without vision and a policy that's doomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72469	I thank my colleague Pernar. Answer me, Comrade Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72470	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, on the first surface. When someone listens to you, a man would say, well, look, there's some logic here. But then when you think about it a little bit and they scratch a little bit, you see that you're wrong. Why aren't you right? Because such a solution would never come or come during the government that I was sitting in. Such a heartless solution that drives people on the road never from the government where I sat would come and not come. Mr. Pernar, if I could correct all the injustices the HDZ has done, would it be my end? [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72471	Do not engage colleagues, Mr. Boric and your colleague, Mr. Schuker. Here you go, colleague Maras, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72472	Those are those brave HDZ bus boys. From the bus, Shuker. You're the only one who needs a bigger bus. Not this little, big bus you need. So, please, lift the plate and replicate. Don't hide. So, like I said, colleague Pernar. If I could've made it right, let's say those injustices that my colleague Shucker was still doing in SK, so that would've been, he'd be really strong. But that's not possible. I can't do everything in a few years how many HDZ during communism, and after that, I can't do it all wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72473	I thank my colleague Maras. I beg you, colleague Maras, do not in your discussions. Comrade Shuker, let me finish. Comrade Maras, I would ask you not to demean yourself in your replica and in your discussions of any of the parliamentary representatives and not to present any insinuations towards any of your colleagues or colleagues. We have a breach of our rules of procedure. Dear fellow Shucker, here you go. ... Thank you very much. [[- Intruders. You don't understand.]] I beg you and my colleague, Boric, that you no longer enter the word of your colleague Maras. Don't disturb him because he'll lose the thread and then he won't be well. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72474	Dear colleague Maras, I like your old coin. It's a good marketing coin. But if you analyze this law, you'll see that you have five years of pressure on protected tenants through an increase in rent, and then a human migration follows. A human migration offer, not on the street, and it's basically old for the old one again. From an old apartment to an old apartment and even an offer to buy it, and you're 70 years old, and after 65, you can get a loan at the height of a pension. So, is that the logic of this law? But that's the way it is. These people are all 60-70 and over. Is it okay to treat them like that? Is it okay to play with people's fates like that? I've been following this story since 2004. In 2004, I met this problem for the first time. The problem is escalating from above. In 2004, there were many more owners who had much more sensitivity to protected tenants. Today there are far fewer owners, of course and protected tenants who do not have enough sensitivity that protected tenants have the right to a home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72475	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Answer me, Comrade Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72476	Thank you very much. You have pointed out just one dimension that has not been pointed out today, which particularly makes it important that there is no empathy and solidarity by the promoter, but unfortunately from a lot of fellow MPs, who here may be fun and laugh and are not aware that people are not laughing. You said that these are people who are at a later age, very likely, most of them and who simply live in these properties for tens of years. So some even 70 years, and you're setting yourself up towards them this way, with a duration, without any alternative, not that it's not solidarity, but it's not humane. Anyone who votes for this bill tomorrow when someone meets him on the road will rightly be able to tell him some things I won't be able to mention here, but it certainly won't be pleasant to hear. Some have an interest in pushing it, because if they had an interest in changing locks for defenders, then why not deny the possibility of old people, it's even smaller problems for them than what was the one I just told them. I only pray and appeal to the conscience of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, not to deal with it that way. We don't have to rush anywhere until a normal and fair solution is found, we don't have to rush anywhere. Nothing's going to happen that's already been put up by the promoter for five years, so let's just spend 4.5 years trying to find the right solution, and make everyone happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72477	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. I owe you only one piece of information on these allegations, that no citizens are allowed to attend the sessions, we checked in the citizen service. All those who have applied to be present today at this plenary session are here as you can see. Only one person, who submitted the request yesterday, who did not submit it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, was refused entry into the Croatian Parliament, so you know, for information, that there are all those who have filed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We're moving on, the debate, the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, at the European Court of Human Rights, the Republic of Croatia has been punished. Secondly, there is no relationship between the tenants and the tenants, which was their voluntary relationship. There is only that the state has put them in a position to have some kind of relationship with each other. Since when did that start? I will quote from the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 2014 therefore, the right to an apartment which allowed the holder of that right to be permanently and unlimitedly used for residential purposes was introduced into the legal system of the former Yugoslavia in 1953. This is how much memory does not deceive me in the 65th Law on Housing Relations of 1959 was the first legal act to introduce a legal concert of residential law, which is 59 years until the entry into force of the Housing Law of 1974. The 1994 housing law no longer confers housing rights on private-owned apartments, and the tenant rights that existed earlier remained on such apartments. So 44 years ago, the state noticed that there was still something wrong and private-owned apartments treated differently from social-owned apartments, in terms of granting housing rights. This country has been since '74. 16 years later, the problem was not solved, 16 years ago, the legal relationship between the householder, so the state authorities that had nominally controlled and assigned social dwellings or private housing owners, and the homeowner was regulated by the Law on Residential Relations of '59, '62, '74. And '85. Mr. And that was the '85 Law. It is the 33rd year of the Law on the Sale of Apartments, on which there is a household law of 1991. It allowed tenants and, with their permission, members of their household to purchase apartments on which they were entitled under more favourable conditions. Now we are already coming to this new state, the democratic one, which is the one who got an apartment in the past system, which was more advantageous than those who didn't get an apartment in the last system, has allowed them to use their privilege to buy that apartment. It allowed some, at a good price, some to make it impossible, some to make it possible. Since 1991, therefore. We can't talk about socialism anymore, etc. Inheritance, rather than we can talk about that demographic, that the Republic of Croatia, has allowed part of the citizens to convert joint ownership into private property at a favourable price. And that's one group of people who's right to do it to another group of people who's been given the same right but not here, but a little further under the same conditions that didn't allow it. That it was the Republic of '91. She didn't think it was right, and if she thought that the others we're talking about today don't deserve it, we shouldn't have it, then she wouldn't have put them back in a special category called the protected tenant, which is 22 years from the '96 rental law. And 27 years on the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household right exist as one category of someone who uses someone else's property while the owners of the apartments are those who can't exercise their ownership rights. And then when the European Court of Human Rights says in 2014 a little too much of you have gone too far in this regulation and ruled out 8000 and a few euros in compensation to the applicant then we are now going to solve this problem in a way that can be assessed morally and in any other way questionable. So there is only one way that will be unquestioned and we will eventually have to come to any of our legal solutions to any judgments of the Court of Human Rights which will be filed by those who are damaged, whose right is damaged by this legal solution, which is that we will have to deprive the owners and allow the protected tenants to find themselves in the same position as those who are in the 1991 law, and today I have mentioned some names that are also in this law, so I will not mention them again so that they allow these rights. No other solution will, in my opinion, be finally neither practical except for what we've already talked about, which probably at this point is the most expensive. Now, in order not to get a replica in terms of what you've done, that verdict mentions two, or three drafts of the law, two from 2002 and 2003, and that changes to the law on renting apartments first reading and the final proposal from 2003 that came to a second reading but because of the disbanding of the Parliament in 2003 has never been passed, it's one. The second is a proposal not even sent to the government but made by the Ministry of Justice in 2013, it is an amendment to the law on renting apartments. As far as I'm concerned, or was it at the Department of Construction? The Department of Construction, I apologize, is still in the Department of Construction. [[Intruder: The Ministry of Construction.]] In this sense, the state must have both the Croatian Parliament and the citizens' representatives, and even these citizens who are protected by the tenants or those who are the owners of the apartments, we have come to the situation to determine whether we want to go more with a solution to meet protected tenants who were not by their own will or by the owners who were taken away from the apartments also by their own will. Is there a fair solution? It probably exists but it's very expensive because if it wasn't expensive then it wouldn't have lasted 27 or 28 years. The SDP club proposed that this debate be treated as a previous debate on the draft law. This certainly gives time to the Proposer to examine this solution a little bit better, and we will propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a positive statement about this conclusion. If he is not accepted, we will not be able to support the bill as it is even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72479	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We've got a patch. Dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72480	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, you were talking about the owner's relationship with protected tenants, I like to call them owners. Here I personally remember the experiences, the second half of 2014 just before the presidential elections, the delegation of Gordana Vojkovic from her only real estate. I remember then SDP's policy towards both owners and owners. A little before that, there was another much larger absurdity when the owner, beware of the decommissioned from his own. It is specifically about opera singer Neven Palec Papagen who, whose family was a noble family, had one whole building on Shalata, Yugoslavia took it from them. Afterwards, they were able to enter the property, so they actually entered their property, though unlisted, and the police kicked them out of their possession. And it's just a small cut, a cross-section of absurdities that I personally experienced with these people both with the owners and with the owners, both of them were disembarked during your power. So I'd like to ask you, what happened, did some kind of lobby maybe crawl into the SDP? Maybe the lobby of thieves who wouldn't let you go through with the legal changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72481	I thank my colleague, Sincic. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72482	So you mentioned some names that I'm here for as long as I've had time to Google, and I've already seen contradictory information about one person you mentioned, so I wouldn't want to get into it. If what you said happened, it happened on the basis of a final judgment, and not one authority, nor the SDPs, unfortunately or fortunately, has the right to interfere in judicial judgments, has the right to pass laws that will make you different and fairer. And many of the laws we have passed have made our legal system better and fairer. A colleague named Lalovac mentioned the Swiss franc, after which a former member of your club, Škibola made this proposal for these RBA cooperatives and many of the other laws we passed made this system more just and fairer than it was before those laws were passed. And I don't have to go any further, and I've found myself in a situation where I've been resented by the judgments of some courts, regardless of the ordinary citizens, or the cases in which the institution I led was one of the parties that lost the court's dispute. And imagine that now that the court has abolished the decision signed either by one of my predecessors or by my employees that I am going publicly to criticise the court's decision. I think the prime minister would have replaced me immediately or he'd have to resign on the basis of public pressure. So it's very sensitive what you're saying, and I'm not sure that at all times what you're doing and intervention is justified. But I said only one name you mentioned, I Googled it in a hurry and I saw contradictory writings about that case on the Internet, and I don't know what the truth is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72483	I thank my colleague Bauk for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72484	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you've better exposed the analogy and the problem of all these cases than the Ministry has. Now, either it's a commendation to you or it's practically reprimanded to them. But you've exposed the facts, the sequence and the legal events and the laws and everything else that's happened over the last 60, 70 years. So I agree with you, we are now in a position to choose between depriving one or depriving the other, and we would prefer not to damage anyone but to slowly get out of it because it is this bill. ...to get out is not our job, and you focus on each other and go into court proceedings and get rid of how you know and can. And in the worse version we even side with only one, it's completely wrong. So all these people are Croatian citizens, and I'm not making any difference between the owners of these apartments who have been wronged in their time, and that's a great injustice, but also these people who are protected by the rent did not cause that injustice. This injustice was caused by the state, any state government, and then we continued in democratic Croatia, and the consequence is that at least now we come out of it as people, and the outcry as people means what he said before his colleague Maras, market damages to each other, any other in harmony, there he and I differ a little in line with the first one with the desire of the owner, the property must be respected in that story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72485	I thank my colleague Frank Vidovic. My colleague Bauk's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72486	I wanted to point to two things, first that the former state was back in '74. I've found something wrong with that because since '74. It was no longer possible to obtain housing rights over private-owned apartments, that the country lasted 16 years and did not solve the problem, that another country came after that which had found it to the greatest extent sanctioned. And it's symbolic that the first president of that new state bought an apartment under the law and there's no more. So when someone asked, I think the secretary of state asked where the border was, there's no limit. So to the very top, we kind of symbolized it and sanctioned it. And now it turns out that this housing unit, when it was granted the right to private property, is today the family of the first Croatian president to drive this law into the street for five years. Is that normal for you? He didn't know if it was in private or social, state-owned whatever you wanted, but it was before '74. Probably. Therefore, it is very simple what the owners were deprived of should be paid back and paid, what people who were in the same situation until 1991 and '96. Had the right to get right these people who are in the same situation. This is the only fair solution, and in that sense we can discuss how much it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72487	I thank my colleague Bauku for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72488	Dear colleague Bauk, if all that you've said that I agree with, if we add to that the Succession Act that further obliges us to get things back to that position, to return to that position that was before the 1990s, it turns out that's the solution. However, I must warn you that there is another solution and it has been implemented all these years, and that is the agreement between the owners and the protected tenant, and in this way a lot of people have already been resolved. And what I would draw your attention to, today this problem is much cheaper to solve, and even this way, and this way that you talked about than it was in 2004 when I personally met with it for the first time or one of you earlier than that. Why? Because protected tenants have less and less every day, they are older people, and the protected tenant is not a protected category, so it is not portable. Thus, the problem was reduced by natural means, unfortunately, by those people who went through certain sufferings. We, if you remember in 2004, had a man who was a candidate for the occupier, and he had a conflict with a protected tenant and was reported for harassing a protected tenant of low growth. We, as HSU, then in a coalition with HDZ, opposed the choice of this man as a occupier and succeeded naturally because then the late Jurica Malcic became a public defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72489	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Answer, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72490	Some cultures and some societies as socially acceptable forms of resolving some relationships have agreed or forced marriages. What happened to the tenants and owners is a forced marriage, that's all. The state forced them to be in some relationship, neither did they want one, nor did they want the other. And it's the state that has to break up this forced marriage by paying for alimony or one or the other. And that's it. If they agree, then it's no longer forced. But if I could agree, I wouldn't be able to discuss this problem for 65 years after the first mention of household law and 44 years after the state's understanding that something still doesn't work out and suggest a delay in the complete solution to this problem for another 5 years and then probably after 4 years, we'll have an extension of the law that will continue to move. I am pleased that this debate, both with MPs and in society, promotes awareness because this is one of the laws in which we talk about the individual fates of people whose life is of vital importance. Some laws are not such as to be objective, but this is one of those laws including those owners who have to pay a rent that is multiplely higher than those that have an apartment owned and the rent is multiple and tenants and tenants, multiplely larger than the one that the owners are getting right now, maybe a much better apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72491	I thank my colleague Bauku for his reply. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72492	Your Excellency. I listened to this debate, and in the picture, or in my mind, I got pictures of the Terebuh family's representation that happened in 2015, and I'll tell you the date, that was June 11th or 12th, probably June 12th. So SDP was then in power, you can Google it, it was about people who lost their rent rights, they became protected tenants, and they made some kind of small change next to the apartment, they ate some wall or moved or made, I don't remember exactly, mostly whatever change is made, the rent rights are lost, and they've been decommissioned. At that time, the SDP was in power, we also pointed to this problem in general, that it was not resolved, a year earlier I think 2014 and that the actions were arranged, and then you SDP gentlemen and the Terebuh family, that was two old people who lived in that apartment for 65 years, you didn't react. You didn't care about the Terebuh family or the other families at the time. And now you're pouring in like crocodile tears for these protected tenants, but when what's key, it's not what you're doing now but what you're doing when you could do something, it's like, say, colleagues Sincic, Bunjac and I come to power tomorrow and you tell us gentlemen, the problem is 330 000 blocked, the problem is this, the problem is that or say people go to jail for marijuana, etc., I write criminal penalties, and we ignore it. And then when we leave power, when the people say you didn't do anything about what you said, and then again as an opposition we say we should have not known, legalized the hemp, we should have solved the problem of household law, we should have changed the executive law, etc. And that's a key problem that the SDP has, why? Because with HNS, the hypocrisy is obvious, here is Mr. Uhlir, here you have an ad on the website from Vesnik, Sunday, March 20, '94, which is where you signed a statement or declaration drawn up by the Federation of the Association of Residents of Croatia. Be careful what it says, we demand equality in front of the law of all tenants, the homeowner of the former social system regardless of the origin of the apartment. We demand the possibility of buying out an apartment for all tenants of household law regardless of the origin of the apartment under the same criteria and equal legal conditions. This wasn't my signature, this was signed by you or not by you, but by your colleagues from the CNS who then led the party. And many, I'm sure, the tenants voted for both SDP and HNS, and how did you repay them? The SDP gave it back to them when he was in power, so he didn't solve their problem, that the raids that were happening were not a warning to them about the disaster that was going to happen, so they didn't solve it, and now you're solving the problem in what way? In a way I'd call this yours... The final solution, in a way that you turned the hourglass upside down and began to leak for 5 years, and as it is said, "The time goes by, there's a hell of a jump on the jump" and in 5 years, the latest will begin the raids, probably sooner because people won't have where to pay the rent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, such a solution is a brutal solution, a solution that does not respect the issue of home, the rights of people to housing, etc. In exchange, you offer them nothing, you don't even offer them state-owned apartments in exchange for not offering them anything, you don't even offer them state-owned apartments in rent with a favourable rent. As a state, or as a legislator, you should have told people ok, you can no longer live in private apartments. The state has empty properties, we give you these properties. Now you will pay rent to us and the owners will enter the property of their apartments. You didn't do it either. Your solution is extremely unfair and I say look, that you spoke to me says Mr. Gordan Maras, ma'am Ivane says but it was '94. when the HNS signed this declaration on the tenants. He says it was a long time ago. I say, well, it doesn't matter what happened a long time ago, they signed it. Well, he says, Ivan, they signed a year ago that they won't be with HDZ, they don't stick with it. So I can just say that your promises, they don't mean anything to you, it's just ink on paper and it's actually one slap in the face of all those who believe you and I don't think there's any more of those who believe you and that those who now vote for HNS don't vote out of belief today, not because they really believe in the integrity of your policy, your honesty, consistency or whatever, but only for personal benefit. Everything you've fought against, which is HDZ's way of managing the country, a way of managing a country in which someone is affected by someone else's harm, where basic human rights are being trampled, and the right to housing is definitely one of those. You actually stepped on it. You've stepped on it, you've gone beyond everything you and your founders have stood for, or your founders, for you personally. I don't know, you're relatively new, at least to me on the political scene or rather in the political arena. What I can say is that the Living Wall is a credible party. A credible party because our attitude hasn't changed since the first day we stepped into defense of home, defense of the right to housing. We've been doing the same thing for years and we've been doing the same thing over and over again. In our work, we showed that we were credible, and with our attitude after being elected to the Parliament, we showed that we had not changed our coat. Unlike you, Mr. Uhlir, we refused to participate in HDZ's power even though we were offered this. We refused because we knew that their power was a synonym for nepotism, a synonym for various shops with corrupt elements, or as in the case of that extraction from Fimi media money, even completely criminal elements. We knew that the fair and better Croatia with HDZ was missing, we knew that HDZ was just another word for poverty. We knew that HDZ was another word for emigration and that nothing, that none of the problems our society faces would solve HDZ. And this solution shows, i.e., how inconclusive the HDZ government is and what policy it leads to. You chose to participate in such a power and actually participate in it you stopped what was depicted in those Star Wars “On the Dark Side”. You've stood on the dark side and come back for you actually no longer, because a man can lose his property, he can lose his dignity, but both can be returned. But the cheek can't return. The face once lost is no return, you started a coalition with HDZ on a no-return journey, and the ultimate victims and your coalition will now be protected by the tenants who still have that status and have not lost it with all kinds of jokes. This law is a twilight of democracy and is actually a social conflict with the tenants as a social category and with the right to live as a human right recognised by all international organisations. I repeat to immigrants you give apartments for free use, you don't give the tenants. You don't give homeless people. On your soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72493	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72494	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I, with these nearly 15 years of standing here in this hall, cannot afford the luxury of giving a positive assessment of a law that thus affects human fate, on fundamental human rights, on the right to housing, on the right to a home without having adequate indicators, corresponding figures. You know, I'm not even interested in those protected tenants who have two, three properties. They don't interest me at all. I'm not interested in the owners who own two, three, four apartments that are incoherent because they're protected by tenants. I'm interested in the tenants whose only home is and I'm interested in owners who may be tenants, who pay for larger subsistence, who have property that is incoherent to them as owners. When you give us those numbers, then I am prepared to decide on the quality solutions that this problem will solve. We cannot make a legal solution in which by trying to correct some injustices we will do even greater injustices and therefore I will certainly vote personally for this proposal to conclude that this is a previous reading, regardless of whether the ruling majority will accept it, but the ruling majority would recommend it, to accept this as a previous reading, as a good barbaric fire that will initiate very serious preparations in the competent ministry to draw a picturesque picture of the projector showing the dimensions of the problem and possible solutions. When we use this technique too little to give us a picture of the size of the problem, the types of problems, so what are the variations in problems and what are possible solutions. I think we need to go as parliament step forward, we have professional services, we have technical support, that something like this on such important issues, because the issue of housing is too important. Here in the law we really, has a secretary of state right, we don't throw anyone on the street, at least those are the intentions of the law, but we don't know technically how it's going to be done. All we know is that after 5 years of increase in the rent, which will be additional pressure on those mashams of older people, protected tenants with modest incomes, that we will make an offer, if there is no other solution, that we will have an offer to place them in a state apartment with even the possibility of buying them, but not under conditions that they would have had that they did not lose their rent rights in 1996. It's not written anywhere. About, you know, you're going to be offering these people in late years, like the bill says, to buy Mercedes, and they won't have to buy them for felga or charge. Let's get this straight. So we have to have little sense of reality about these people of life, who are their options. The credit won't win. These people are credited as protected tenants in 95% of the cases won't win. Eventually, I can get a loan from the lenders, therefore, from those whose telephone numbers are still higher by the pillars of the illuminating, although I am Mr. Shuker, who was the finance minister, asking that monster in Croatia to prevent from this payphone, or from these benches, but she is still present and they are racting people and giving credits more than the paying power of these pensioners. People are when they're in trouble or when they're in trouble too often they owe more than they can afford. I'm trying to understand them, but such a job, such financial transactions simply need to be banned. You can't let people owe more than their options. They need help. So it's a good thing that we met this way and in this exhausting debate with this problem in a rather open way. I think we've been a little bit perceptive to the Croatian public, that we've been sensitizing it, that we've given them all the size of this problem, and I hope that this indifference in the preparation of the law and the release into the procedure of these laws won't happen again. We cannot speak in law of one verdict, of one law, but of all the laws and of all the judgments concerning this Law, and we have the right to question the quality of certain judgments. We in this House can do it. You know, I've been told by long-protected tenants that in the work of the European Court of Human Rights on our part as our permanent representative there is a person who is herself involved in this problem. Would it be correct to exclude that person from the decision of the European Court of Human Rights when he already has such a problem with a protected tenant. So, I appeal to the seriousness of solving this problem, I appeal to the advice of all of us because it is a right to a home, a right to a free home, a fundamental human right and a real danger of limiting this right by this law and that this law that we will once, twice discuss falls three times in the Constitutional Court. Maybe it won't be a foothold, this verdict I spoke of in the Constitutional Court regarding the bankruptcy right to receive a pension, and based on false statements and false medical documents. It may be some other legal basis, but I think that this law, that is, the provisions of this law, for limiting the right of residence and the right to a home, can fall quite easily in the Constitutional Court. If you don't believe it, try to inform yourself, try to consult, as the ministry has these possibilities, and then you tell us with certainty that this won't fall and this can't fall because it's only right. At this point, you can't tell us that. It is also good that there are two committees and I do not recommend a joint thematic debate, these are the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership in which the work of the Committee is a housing problem, housing problems, not housing, but housing problems, the right to a home, the right to live, that it will hold if anything else is at least between the first and second reading of a separate thematic debate. I will ask the president of my committee not to go to the joint session because the approaches to this problem of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour, the pension system according to their work cycle, and it does not have to be a joint thematic session, it does not mean much to us in cost terms. I hope you accept these remarks as a gesture of goodwill to make quality moves and find quality solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72495	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We have one replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72496	Dear colleague Hrelja. So you said that there was some desire to solve problems and that they really do exist, some wishes have been expressed to solve the problem of a protected tenant through this law and that something will be solved. But it definitely says that this law does not have a clear solution, that it does not have a housing programme for those who will definitely need it, if not at this time, but surely how this law will be if it is adopted in those five years, so there is no program. That's why we have to or should really, and I support you there, I see that you supported our proposal to be a previous debate and that's the only thing that's possible right now. It must be understood this way because after so many hours, after so many words said, it is only possible. I don't know if you mentioned it but tell me who caused this problem? State? Well, then the state has to and solve it, the state is responsible, not to engage, if you don't think that she shouldn't put this problem in and ask that someone else give a solution like this through this law now requires that the local community be the one who will be responsible for the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72497	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72498	Thank you very much for the replica. Of course this problem has caused the state by passing its laws has prescribed who to solve it and left the means to solve it, specifically to local self-government units, however it is not resolved. Why isn't that settled? It's the responsibility of the state again. The state can and eventually will have to deal with it. The solution cannot be based on the constant conflict of two structures which are both damaged. So the owners are damaged in their own way because they can't get their property, and on the other hand the protected tenants are damaged because their right to a home has been compromised and their right of opportunity has been taken away in '96. as homeowners of the housing right to buy these apartments in which the state would have to reduce the damage to the owners. So the state could, could and would eventually have to solve this problem. It can transfer the problem to local self-government units, but in the finals, the state is always responsible for this. I remember one time when the state actually offered citizens. You remember the pensioner's compensation, the state offered to open 50% in two years or to take 100% with a start of two years in the next six years. There could have been something offered, nothing has ever been offered here, nor has the right returned, taken away from the rights of protected renters from 1996, so the rent law and the possibility of buying or being offered from compensation to the owners of the apartments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72499	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Live Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72500	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We've all been exhausted by this debate, but there's one argument I can't accept, and that's an argument that there's no money or there's no money. There's always money for certain things, and for certain things there wasn't, it's a matter of priority, not possibilities. This government was given a higher priority to remonting MiGs in Ukraine who returned in worse shape than they went there and spent huge money on. After bad experience with MIG from one American ally, we decided to get used airplanes from another American ally 30 years old. It's about the shorts. It's about the old days. And we'll pay that old man over 300 million kuna. Once again, two billion kunas have been spent on a military mission in Afghanistan. If that money that was thrown away had been spent on solving household rights today that problem would not exist, today we would not be discussing and everyone would be happy and satisfied. Happy would be the owners of apartments and tenants. However, since this authority, in fact, is not this authority but all the authorities that have so far had such a order of priorities that the rights of citizens and property and housing have put in the last place come to this legal solution which is not. Why? Because one wrongs another by injustice. It's like when, here's what they suggest in South Africa that white people be taken from farms because their ancestors 300 years ago might have said in a double way they came into possession of the land. Now they want to wrong these whites to be a more relaxed system. You had a situation where Jews were victims of various horrors like all other nations in World War II but it was justice to them, or let's say justice, but it went to satisfy them in a way that was given to them by the Palestinians. And that's how one would come out to meet the Palestinians was wronged and we've had a conflict that's been going on for 70 years. And this solution with household law seems to me like such solutions. A solution that many will wrap in black and sad and that will lead to numerous reflections. If this government's policy is to depose people, I understand. I understand because this government is not credible and everything they say is doing the opposite. When Plenkovic said he would stop the raids, that means we'll continue the raids. When he said we'd stop the eviction, so the eviction will continue. When he said that he would develop Croatia to be a rich country, or Colinda when she said that, it meant the other way around, that we would remain one of the poorest countries. When they say they're taking special care of Slavonia, it means they don't care at all, etc., etc. I remember when Karamarko told predecessor Plenkovic that he would solve the problem of blocked citizens, what did HDZ do for blocked people? One big lady and gentlemen nothing. The executive system remained as human suffering and human misery continued. Unfortunately, under the same conductor bat, but when the SDPs say they would never pass such a law, I believe them, but they also did nothing to bring some fairer law and they were aware that the current state is unsustainable that this system in which the owner can't come into possession of his property is not acceptable and is not normal, but they still allowed the problem to last indefinitely, waiting for the death of the holder, not the tenant's rights, but the status of a protected tenant. And now the HNS speeds this up and over the knee solves it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72501	I thank my colleague Pernar for this final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72502	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72503	Thank you very much, esteemed MPs and MPs, the chairman. So I had the need at the end of the day to do a little more repeat of some of the parts that might have been in the debate and escaped, a couple of times I answered for the word that I was trying to direct the debate, to point out that some times it went the wrong way, which wasn't constructive, but I have a need right now at the end there. So the European Court of Human Rights ruling is absolutely clear and unequivocal. There's nothing in it that should be interpreted, interpreted differently than it says. The principles of law are also quite clear. The European Court of Human Rights should not be interpreted, it should not be interpreted in any other way, everything is clearly written. What has been shown in the debate throughout the day that there have been 2, 3 points that have made it useful for us to know that something still needs to be done in the meantime, that between the two readings we need to supply the data, this House, to make it a clearer picture, but we will certainly give ourselves this effort, but in a part that is realistically possible. So we need to know that it's personal data, that it's private property data, private housing owners that the state doesn't systematically run. So what we can do is try to collect it. Some judgments, some of the materials used today, have also not contributed to this conversation constructively because they are completely wrong, completely wrong examples, not appropriate. The discussions or judgments that are drawn out and shown in this example of today’s law do not have a point of contact with this, are interpreted differently in the legal world. Lemo's verdict is completely different from what we're discussing today, the damages to the factories are completely different, obligations and successions completely inappropriate for what we're talking about today, the Constitutional Court has taken a stand on that. Reference to procedure, Mr. Mršić called the government and the ministry that we skipped the procedure, that we had smuggled something. These are all opinions, these are all opinions. If you're interested in getting an individual, there's no need to try to discredit us that way. I personally am called by Mr. Maras for an affair that doesn't exist, something that I'm trying to impute. On several occasions today, I explained this to your colleague, the coat of arms on the board with the original documents. Unnecessarily done, it doesn't help this debate. And also for a few more times to say maybe, it doesn't hurt, for continuing talks on this law, the state doesn't have habitable apartments, it doesn't exist. These are some derusting apartments that require significant procedures to bring in purpose but not close to being usable, perhaps habitable, but those who are empty are in very poor condition. One variant that has emerged today as a possible solution from what is being troubled that someone has been abolished by this law, this bill, so that a stronger engagement of the state, replacement dwellings under privileged conditions, short mathematics. Someone even brought out a billion-and-a-half kuna here, but it's just a direct expense. The indirect costs follow later, what I was saying when we extend the rights where the borders are. So everyone comes and shoots and calls and you give yourself to someone without a basis, let's keep looking. Proposals for solutions, any constructive proposal, to consider, to discuss why not? I'll be grateful, we'll be grateful, for helping, to make this a matter which is more qualitatively arranged for no harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72504	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir, for this final word. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72505	Thank you very much. My colleague said some things, and after a whole day's debate, unfortunately, you haven't convinced anyone that people have nothing to worry about. So you're expected to see people who are protected by the tenants get the solution that in 2023 they have fair compensation, or that they don't think about how or where they're going to live, that's what you're expected to do. You're now saying that the state doesn't have a habitable apartment, so how are we going to solve the problem of 4,000 people? Where will those people go? This is expected of you, not to tell stories that are unfulfilled and that people after what you just said that the apartments are gone, so you can't offer any alternative other than some call subsidies that ask God what he will be and who he will be for. So you haven't solved anything except what you partially solved to those who own it. Now, just before you spoke here, I'm not talking about any affair but the facts you said. You said you had a case like that in your family. So what doesn't put you in a position to be dependent on the passing of this law? What do you mean, what do you mean? If you have a family case like that, if you're in the owner's position how does that not lead you to that position of addiction? He's bringing in the same people that are covered by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72506	I thank my colleague Maras. Answer, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72507	Look, you said about breaking and entering, you were talking today about the lock changes some magazine wrote about it, I denied it all to your colleague on the board, I took out the documents, I showed the originals, I talked about it several times today. So in 2005, my wider family got their apartment back, and that's where the story's over. We got it back in 2005. Where do you see a conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72508	I thank you for your response to Secretary of State Mr. Uhlir. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72509	Dear Mr. Uhlir, you are calling for a European court ruling explaining that the owners should be allowed into their possession. Well, you don't need to be a doctor of law and you don't need the European Court to come to that conclusion. It is not at all disputed that owners should be allowed to own their property. That's what we didn't discuss here today. The subject of the debate is what to do with the tenants who live in those apartments, whether the state will damage them or not, whether they leave them on the street or not, whether they will be deposed or not, it's the subject of the debate, and you're sitting on your ears the whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72510	I thank my colleague Pernar for his replica. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72511	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Uhlir. Naturally, no one interprets the verdict, but the verdict is very clear not to be interpreted. The ruling clearly states that the Court has already identified the main shortcomings in existing legislation and this is an inadequate level of protection, etc. and the court suggests that it be settled in a way that it is balanced and... owners. You have not shown by any word that this is balanced. And on the other hand, tell me if an action plan has been adopted to implement this verdict, that you have been obliged to present it to the Committee of Ministers, whether or not the Committee of Ministers decides whether sanctions will be taken. And when we talk about conflict of interest, you are in conflict of interest. I'll give you an example from medical practice, I hope you understand it, it's from my personal medical practice. So I became the director of a voluntary donor registry where people voluntarily give bone marrow, but at the same time I had to get out of the ward where the patients who needed that bone marrow were. And the reason I got out of there is because when a man sees the difficulty these patients are going through, he can sublimely cheer when he talks to a voluntary donor, so subconsciously persuade him to still donate the bone marrow. So that's what's in man and you that you were at all smart you could get away from this and not be here and represent this law. So you subconsciously can do it to make the law look the way you'd like it if you had that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72512	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrsic, for the replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72513	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I don't agree with two things from your explanation. First, as a sovereign state, Croatia has the right to analyse judgments, question its position in that judgment, have the right to examine in which they are congenital or how they like to be told to correlation judges who have made such a decision, even those from Croatia and I ask you not to be difficult to verify and that fact, so if you say that everything is clean I will be grateful to you. I don't have that chance to check it out. Another thing I disagree with is that it's hard for the state to access ownership data on protected tenants. I said in my presentation that I am not interested in the owners who have five apartments inexplicable because they are protected by the tenants inside but I am interested in the owners whose ownership is not available, while paying the rent of their apartment in which they live as a fivefold higher value than the protected tenant and I am interested in the tenants whose only home, the only place of residence, and I am not interested in the tenants who have 2-3 properties. I think a state that can monitor the flow of money, which has offices to prevent money laundering, must and may know all these details. If these tracks can be traced, then I'm sure through the tax administration, through the courts, through the catastres, these others can be traced. It's only a matter of goodwill and a matter of time. It certainly can't be done in a week, but in one reasonable period it can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72514	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja for this replica. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72515	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would primarily refer to your statement that since practically half the day of the debate, you have only two or three useful things. So it turns out, in fact, that most of the colleagues who discussed it today weren't actually supposed to be here. But I do think that these people were still passing on what all these associations were saying about the Association of Protected Renters and Associations that protect actually the owners, that they were all taking out through the representatives some of their views. If there's nothing usable in their aspirations, then I don't think you've just figured out how the whole system works here. Because practically, everyone here doesn't make their own point, I don't know how much here, but I don't think we might have a small, small number of those who have such a personal situation. I believe that most cases are actually about putting out and looking for situations that citizens have certain needs. Definitely this long debate indicates that certain problems with this draft bill you've made have. So that's undeniable. According to your statement, practically, you are in the first reading that this proposal is perfect. If you didn't know what you'd supplement. Because if it's only 2-3 changes, then it's practically perfect. I'm going to ask you one more time to really listen again. It is not a matter of whether you will listen only to parliamentary representatives, listen to the people to whom this law will apply, that then the inscriptions do not turn out to protect your own interests, which you are called upon, but to protect the interests of citizens who are both seeking their rights and that no one is ultimately damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72516	I thank my colleague Panenic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72517	Thank you, Chairman. Secretary of State, you were talking about empty state-owned apartments, that there are empty apartments, but they're inexorable. What does that mean exactly? Does that mean the windows are missing somewhere? Does that mean there's no parquet or does that just mean there's no furniture? So explain to us what number of apartments they're in and what condition they're in. Because believe me, a lot of people would take an apartment that's empty and set it up with furniture or some kind of parquet or whatever other changes are needed. That's much better than going to the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72518	I thank my colleague Sincic for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72519	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you've mentioned the number now, if I'm worth a billion and a half kuna to cost a ransom, I suppose. So I can say that objectively given the money the state has raised over all these years since the purchase of apartments, that it's not some kind of money. And the second thing is that local self-government and the state has brought in such, or the state in the first place has brought in such regulations that you practically don't even know where that money is. It's not your fault, it's everyone's fault, but anyway it's not too much money. On the other hand, if we were to deploy it to five years, then it's 300 million a year. And maybe it's not even that much. Besides, you don't have the right information, so you can't even claim it, it's general... calculation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I could drum up a given sum of two or three or a billion kunas, no matter. On the other hand, I think you just took your step and insulted this tall home. After people sit here for 10 hours and talk. I personally don't have any interest here. In fact, my grandfather was also taken by some countries. I didn't get any of that. So none of us have here, most of us, 99.9% have any personal interest. We bring out the things people asked us to do, and you wonder how you'll get past these people tomorrow and the owners of the apartments and protected tenants if you insist on this proposal. That's not a small number of people. It's about 10, 12, 13, 15 thousand people in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72520	I thank my colleague Vidovic for this replica. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State of the Department of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, head of the sector of the RES, Mr. Josip Bienfeld, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72521	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on renting apartments. First reading, P.Z.E. Number 293. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: On the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Rent of Apartments, P.Z.E. The number 293 was held in a previous debate. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show himself on this proposal for a conclusion. Re-respected Daniel Mestric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72522	Thank you. The conclusion is not accepted. The Croatian Parliament held a debate on 01.03, and all meetings of the board were held before. All the committees have accepted the bill. Their views, objections and proposals were submitted to the applicant, so we do not accept this conclusion to be announced by the previous debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72523	Okay. Then let's vote on this conclusion that the government does not accept. I find that this conclusion has not received the required number of votes. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am now voting on the following conclusion: First, the draft law on amendments and the addition of the law on renting apartments and others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 74 for, 18 abstentions and 32 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72524	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system under Article. 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this act should be discussed in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the urgent procedure, unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of Article. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation. I would like to invite the president of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the respected co-chair of Mr. Zelj Reiner's assembly to give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72525	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must say that I am glad that even in these late hours, we are about as much as we are at 9.30 when the session usually begins. So, the purpose of these, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is to contribute to the quality and dynamics of the debate. In particular, we want to encourage the work of committees on one hand, without committees, except for some practically uninteresting for both the media and the public, but for the main work as well as for most Parliaments to take place on committees, and for discussions in the plenary system to be the crown to say what has become clear on committees. The second is the resolution and arrangement of the Replica Institute in order to make the discussions more quality, so that as many individual debates and debates as possible on behalf of the clubs as possible, because they have sent us here, not for replication and as many replicas as possible, and of course because we have to prepare ourselves, seriously, while the replicas of course are something that means a spotless reaction without preparation is usually made with a statement by someone who is sometimes sad and departing from the main topic, etc. One of the changes is the abolition of the institution of credible interpretation of the law following two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which in one of its decisions has a different statement, but in its decision since 2007, it has taken the view that credible interpretation in its nature produces legal effects from the date of entry into force of the regulations, which means that it has a feedback effect and that it can also cause major problems in the legal system of the European Union, in fact, the practice of credible interpretation does not actually exist in most countries. Almost no Western country exists. We thought it would be good to change that, too. This proposal introduces the Institute of Public Hearing as an institutional mechanism that strengthens me, I would say Parliament's power in relation to its role. A provision is being introduced, confirming international contracts in one reading because so far it was simply a form that these international contracts go into two readings and here's what I think all clubs actually agreed on. Maybe I should point out the replica one more time. So, the replica institution settles in a different way, reduces the time prescribed for exposure from two to one minute and determines that the agent can have up to three replicas per item of the agenda precisely to dynamic the discussion and concentrate as much on individual discussions as possible and to perform on behalf of clubs. This is, of course, in no case, as some have already expressed their opinion in such a way as to restrict the right of representatives to speak, but rather to encourage MPs to express their views, opinions and suggestions through individual debates that require previous professional preparation as most do, but not all of them. Lately, a phenomenon has appeared that did not exist for 20, 25 years, which is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which is why the duration of the speech of the Rules of Procedure's representatives on the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been prescribed for the longest half-minute period, since in that time it can be said which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured and in which he is injured. Therefore, there is no need for some major explications. In a different way, the Institute of Breaks is arranged. In fact, the original meaning of the break was, and this has completely changed, it's been out for the last 2, 3 years, the original meaning of the break was to ask for a break on behalf of the club so that the club could consult each other and take some views when some new moments arise. Therefore, the Institute of Breaks is arranged exactly that way, so that it still exists and is given a break immediately but there is no explanation of the club's representatives after the break expires. Instead, in order not to think I repeat myself once more, and of course this will be interpreted differently for political reasons, it is clear to me, but I would like to say very clearly, that it does not want to limit the possibility of speaking about topics outside the agenda to MPs, so the possibility to present the position of the club of representatives on all topics outside the agenda in between 1 and 2 hours, so when the media are still here and, of course, it is very important to all of them. Thus, even the weather is longer than ever before, usually the breaks were significantly shorter. Of course, it's going to be in the order in which the clubs applied for the same exposure as before, five minutes. It is left out of the name vote institute as a surplus because I now have an electronic announcement of the results of the electronic vote but the obligation to publish the results of the electronic vote in the Parliament's vote or on the website of the Croatian Parliament will be absolutely visible as it voted. Here, it's late hours, I'll stop by and I see there's a lot of replicas anyway, so we'll move on then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72526	Thank you, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, for this explanation of the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we have several replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72527	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Reiner, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I will speak in more detail on behalf of the club, I would just like to point out that one absurdity in their changes is the fact that 60 minutes left behind, every 5 minutes, which by sharing gives us 12 clubs, we have 13. So there's a possibility that the net hangs on that. The other thing is, what's not defined if only three clubs report the other day? Can other clubs take more breaks or just one a day? It's not clearly defined. So I'm asking you to explain it as a proposal. The second thing, in Article 233 of the current Rules of Procedure, states that the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he has applied for is also lost and the club of representatives whose representative was not present in the Chamber when he was called to speak on behalf of the club, and in the amendments you have proposed here, as amendments to the Rules of Procedure states that the right is lost by a representative of the Club of Representatives. In particular, if Gordan Maras is to apply on behalf of the club SDP and Gordan Maras does not have a name when they call out, does that mean that he loses his right or that he loses both the club and the club? Can anyone else from the SDP jump out and take over the club site? It's also an undefined situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72528	I thank my esteemed colleague Sincic, my colleague Reiner's reply, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72529	Dear colleague Sincic, here we go from the end. That was just not clear so far, it seems to me that now it's been clarified, of course it only loses him, not the club, of course not the club. So he can't talk. So that's one thing, and your first question was about the number inside that one hour. Never, and I just analyzed it, it never happened that all 13 clubs were looking for a break in the morning. So that's the answer to your first question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72530	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72531	Mr. Reiner, really, this is a little bit more vague now than when you explained at the pay phone, which means "never asked for it"? So what if he's looking now? That means the MP club won't be able to get a break. Is that right? It's not. Then it'll be an hour and five minutes. Then I ask you to write it in the Rules of Procedure, because you have the practice of interpreting the Rules of Procedure as well as interpreting and writing so that all club representatives have the right to seek a break on the topic at hand. The other thing is, you just said earlier at the pay phone that there would be even more time to stop than it's ever been before. Come on, Mr. Bacic, Mr. Rainer can't hear me, so he won't be able to answer. So you said there'd be even more time than before. It suggests that clubs will be able to unless they spend all their time reporting several times for breaks. Is that too? You don't have to answer right away, answer a little later. And lastly, for political reasons, you're transferring a break. It is not a political object, but your reason for the transfer of the break is half-tan, because you do not want to, you want to delete the usual good practice in the Croatian Parliament to open the session with the current topics of that day. That's why you're suggesting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72532	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer me, colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72533	I don't want to talk about politics at all because it's below the level, and I want to tell you that it's not a good practice, it's a practice, which was introduced some two years ago, and I would say, maybe it's getting intense and intense. It did not exist before, it did not exist in early 2000, but in the 1990s it became, however, the breaks were used extremely rarely and only in case the club wanted to consult one another, about some change of situation, about one, something that happened during the discussion, voting, etc. Therefore, it is not a good practice and has not been a good practice for more than 20 years in this House. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72534	I thank my colleague Reiner for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72535	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear colleague Reiner, you said here that these discussions in the Assembly should be the crown of the activities of the Parliament and that we, for, practically certain topics, have committees, but what have you done? So, as far as I know, you've put that committee to be called in, only if most of them confirm it. So we can't open a certain topic here, either. And as for the breaks themselves, you have now told your colleagues Maras that the breaks in continuity since the beginning of the Croatian Parliament have been used to invite clubs to call a break to agree on certain extraordinary situations that have taken place. Well, you cut that out for us, and now you've cut it out for us, because we can only have a break at 1 o'clock, and that's a representative from 1 club on a particular subject. And if the intention was to cut short, like you said, make them more constructive, why did you change the term? So that's not the intention, it's the morning shift, when we have the public's focus, you moved it at 1 o'clock, and it's obvious what your intention is. Shut up the parliamentary deputies, who talk about all the bad things they do by ruling, remove those topics from focus, and that you are the only ones who, by law, are going to impose topics in the procedure. And he who imposes the subject, he also rules the government. You want to be the only ones who will impose topics and take away the opposition that right, because we all know that we have our draft laws on the agenda, which cannot possibly come to the agenda. And you will be the only one who will create themes and who intend to silence the opposition. This is unseen to take away the right opposition acquired rights that she had and to shrink in this way and to do so, here we see, when the debate is behind midnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72536	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. My colleague Reiner's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72537	It's completely false, and now I'm going to make it clear that he wants to silence anyone, especially the opposition. All rights, which have representatives from the rulings, also have MPs from the opposition. Absolutely the same rights. What you're saying would be true, if we said, I don't know, the representatives of the rulings have the right to 3 replicas, to 5 replicas, and you to 3. Or, for example, we don't know 10 minutes of opposition, and 15 minutes can speak in power. That would be a difference then and it would be an attempt to silence the opposition, it would be an attempt to suppress the opposition, etc. All rights represented by opposition have both the ruling and the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72538	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner. Comrade Maras, I would ask you nicely, you had the right to a replica, don't disturb your colleagues and colleagues while they're arguing. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72539	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, this is a patch of... But you won't get away with it, no matter how you push this bill, you'll get past the Rules of Procedure, which is written to basically be us, who were sent by our voters here, we're opening topics, like, for example. My Dalmatinka, a factory that has failed, Brodosplit, the problem of the Peruća Termoelectrica, the environment and you are defending us these topics in the morning, to open up naturally, because you don't want us to talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you, you impose yourself here in parliamentary democracy, to say whose quality the debate is. You can do this at the university, you have the right, but in parliamentary democracy you can't, with respect, you're an academic, you respect you, but because of that, you're even more in sin. I am telling you this because if you hadn't acted like this, you political academic elites, believe me, I wouldn't be in parliament, I wouldn't have gotten so many peripheral votes from this people, which I have to represent and talk about who pays my travel expenses, who pays me an apartment, who pays me a salary, and you... You, is that democracy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this the democratic system of the free Republic of Croatia? You don't have the right to do that to the MPs. I'm disappointed that in this hour, I'm disappointed that there are empty benches, but it won't end until morning, until the new day. You thought, but you won't. We will use all the institutions, provided by the Rules of Procedure, to welcome a new working day here out of defiance, out of resistance, to a non-democratic attempt to bring down what has been acquired in the democratic Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72540	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72541	First of all, we've already come to a new day, as far as that goes. And as for the other, let's take a look at the numbers, and the numbers say a lot, and the figures say, and why the people you're always calling to give us so are not a score, 1.9, we've got the lowest score of this assembly so far. Now let's look at the relationship of individual debates both under replicas and responses to replicas. In the 9th session, when we analyze all performances, 12 400, over 12 400 were replicas and responses to replicas, and only 690 individual discussions. So can anyone say calmly that the people here sent him to replicate, which is most often actually... something that rarely jumps, etc., rather than individually discusses the subject seriously. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 690 only individual discussions of all of us together according to 12 400 replicas and what is the worst yet, which is that it is almost the same injury of the Rules of Procedure as individual debates. It's actually talking about us, it says that the Rules of Procedure should have been changed because this way is no bankruptcy rights at all, but it's a deviation that's been created in the last maybe two years and that didn't exist five years ago, not 10 years ago, not 15 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72542	Thank you, colleague Reiner for your reply. Let's move on to replicas, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72544	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, chairman of the board. After a formal debate on the draft Rules of Procedure of 15 days after which you have not adopted practically any more serious suggestions that we gave in the Most Club, and I believe neither of the other clubs of MPs, after Tuesday's proposal for a Rules of Procedure addressed to the Croatian Parliament on Wednesday was included in the agenda, today, practically on the night of Thursday, we hold this night's debate to decide tomorrow on amendments and vote on the Rules of Procedure. In four days, one procedure that is in opposition to the rape of parliamentary procedure for us, for you I suppose this is the highlight of democracy, a good practice that you will probably recommend to other parliaments that in four days they bring extremely important changes to the Rules of Procedure, one of the democratic regulations under which the democratic Parliament operates. And I will probably have a chance to tell other parliamentarians or colleagues that we have succeeded in four days to bring these important changes from Tuesday to Friday. So I ask you to tell the public whether this is good parliamentary practice for you and the highlight of democracy as you see it in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72545	I'd like to thank my colleague in the afternoon. My colleague Reiner's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Podolnjak, it's a good parliamentary practice for me to tell the truth and here to tell the truth. So you know very well that it didn't last four days, that's what you're now saying to impress the public so I don't know, etc. You know very well that we had three meetings of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system at which we discussed the draft Rules of Procedure. You know very well that between the first and second sessions we asked all the club representatives to make written suggestions and suggestions. You know very well that for the first time when amendments were being made, we are now making amendments to the Rules of Procedure, when the new Rules of Procedure was being done, it was not that we had made a public debate or consultation for the public interested, for the first time. That wasn't done before. So it was a process that you know everything about, so don't tell the truth that it's been going on for four days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72547	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72548	Dear Vice President, we're already using some of the benefits of parliamentary democracy. In fact, if we pull the card now, we'll note that we're here on Friday, we don't have to come to work tomorrow or work. That's usually been tried by a colleague named Arsen Bauk a long time ago. I can't help thinking that you and I can't possibly understand that you've wanted a quality debate at this time because as an academic, you know for sure that physical labor has its limitations in psychophysiology, but intellectual work is not without its limitations and I can't believe that you wanted a quality debate at this time after all day here to discuss another very important law. What I deeply disagree with, because it's not the same, because it's not simple, and you said that the institute of credible interpretation is potentially dangerous and can cause certain consequences. The credible interpretation of the law has a lot of parliaments, we're not a lonely case. It is not the kind of parliaments that have the kind of Slovenia, have a holy state choir, like France, which have the obligation to consult before the law is sent, etc. So, which are much more professionally trained to control the law as much as it is in accordance with the Constitution and other laws before reference to the procedure. I have recently submitted a credible interpretation and I think it is a solution, not a problem for Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72549	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. I would ask you not to insinuate in your presentation that my colleague Bauk is dealing with some unholy work because it doesn't exactly stand that way. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72550	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Reiner, in your presentation when you explained why we have the Rules of Procedure's proposal on amendments and amendments to the Rules of Procedure said, among other things, that the reasons for wanting to encourage quality, dynamics and that among other things, we would like to influence that the evaluation of the work of the Parliament is not some skinny two, that means between 1.5 and 2, but something else. Now, we're working on these late hours and we're discussing the Rules of Procedure, and it's definitely going to be done exactly as you imagined for what reason? Because you can do it. Because you have the comodity to really put a dot behind midnight, that only we the most persistent or those who are this evening early or late in the morning, I don't know anymore, there are guys who are persistent enough to be there. However, it is certain, in a way that you limit the tank at a specified time, that the replica no longer lasts two minutes but one minute. It's not going to get any quality or dynamics. In fact, there's going to be some kind of conflict, and therefore they have some things to change, and I said that on the Legislative Committee that needed to be changed and that I would agree with. But I don't see any reason why they didn't stay here on behalf of the club. It can be once a day even that, but it's in the morning between 08.30 and 09.30, so this instead of 01.00 to 02.00 could have been from 08.30 to 09.30 and given the opportunity to talk. Assembly representatives don't have much tools, but one of the tools is speech. So don't take it away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72551	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72552	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Reiner, before I even began to deal with politics, the key remark on the work of Parliamentarians, at least there in Slavonia, was that the parliamentary representatives who came from Slavonia were silent, not speaking, not hearing, not defending the interests of the people who chose them, and most of the MPs were coming from your party. And that was also defeating. Now that we look, here I took a little bit and summed up the activity of the MPs over the last half-year. Turns out the last 50, so those over 100 came in less than fellow Bulls. Now I wonder, who better to represent their constituents? A fellow Bull or all those 50? Are they better represented by those who haven't called once? You're going to list three on that list that didn't have a single statement. Could it be that your colleague Branko Bacic, who answered 422 times? Are you silenced by him? Or is he silenced himself? Or might Mayor Mayor Mayor Davor Milicevic be right to report 8 times? Is that a good thing? I can understand that you're going to change something, but let's deal with what the goals are? It's not the goal of making your opposition less nervous or that your most active representative gets you less nervous. But take care of that when you suggest that in fact, we all represent some citizens. And those who want to talk were chosen by Mr. Bull, Mr. Maras, Mr. Pernar and the others who speak, and certainly none of them chose someone like you to keep quiet forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72553	I thank my colleague Panenic for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72554	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Brkic Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament Reiner, the honorary knight of St. Jerusalem's Tomb, you bring here a Rules of Procedure that you wish to deny the right of MPs to discuss within the same club, because it is like the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and tell me, is there more abuse than the fact that HDZ ministers write their own questions during the current hour and answer them themselves? So, we saw during January in the media that you're the minister himself writing a question to himself. It would be cases like this for consideration, and then after that it fits itself. Tell me, shall we bring to this Chamber mirrors who in the fairy tale of Snow White, where shall we ask who is the most beautiful in the world? Yes, of course. And this, if you've already accused us of abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't see why I couldn't argue with Mr. Sincic. The code I read his mind, so I know what he'll say during the debate. Why didn't you in your current class ban that same practice? Why wouldn't the questions be real? Why shouldn't the government just be making an opposition? Here, that's the same thing for you. So you just have double criteria and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72555	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply to the reply of his esteemed colleague, Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, it is sometimes good to read the document you are reporting for discussion. This is the best example of a completely missed replica. Well, you haven't even read the proposal. Well, in the proposal nowhere, it doesn't appear that you can't replicate someone from your club. Well, if you had at least read the proposal before you replicated it, I would have understood. But this is the best example of how it's missed that we have 12400 replicas and so few seriously prepared individual debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72557	I thank my colleague Reiner for his reply. Are you done with your friend Bulj? Can we move on? ... I'm asking you to adapt your behavior to this High House and not behave inappropriately. [[I don't understand.]] We're moving on. Would the committee rapporteur perhaps want to further explain the report? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72558	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I haven't even started my esteemed colleagues yet, but the replicas are up. That's good, you're still awake! All right, you guys just pick up your lines, and then I'll go. Therefore, the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopted in June 2013 and was amended in 2016 when the system of state administration was modified, and instead of Deputy Ministers were arranged, introduced in fact by the Secretary of State, and the position of the working body was prescribed, the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. In March 2017, the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament sent a proposal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to discuss the needs of amendments and additions to the current Rules of Procedure and invited all club representatives to deliver their comments and suggestions in writing. It was then assessed that there was a need to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to contribute first and foremost to the effectiveness and quality of work at the plenary session itself and that, in fact, more at the session itself, the Institute of Individual Discussions was used in the debate because the analysis found that the Institute had practically died from the Replica Institute, i.e. that the Replica Institute had become the most important tool and modus in which most MPs participated in the debate during the plenary session. It has also been observed that the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure is being misused, as is the Institute of Detention. All this that we are talking about tonight, and what has been arranged by these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, many of us, regardless of the position or opposition before this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, have commented on in the halls that such order at the session is not worthy and is not good for this House of Commons, that citizens also do not assess the good and that we should really do something to return the debate to this assembly. And dear colleagues and colleagues and what we're witnessing right now is proof that it was meant to intervene in the Rules of Procedure in exactly this way. We are testifying again right now not to tell the rape of institutes that the current Rules of Procedure regulates I understand that the opposition is dissatisfied and I am also giving you all the right to react, but in a constructive debate. But what's going on now, and you're going to charge us both tonight and tomorrow from the ruling position that we're to blame for what you've provoked tonight with unnecessarily unnecessarily. Tomorrow you will accuse us that the session lasted until early morning, and these breaks really on the subject of amendments to the Rules of Procedure are unnecessary. What are the most important changes in this Rules of Procedure that I can say that we can share in several amendments, which are primarily some technical changes, changes in the nomotechnical nature and one part of the substantive changes that my colleague Reiner has already spoken of as a proposing, is the abolition of the institute of credible interpretation of the law, which is, in the opinion of many legal experts, good, because according to his legal nature, the institution of credible interpretation itself is a law, considered an integral part of the law, is required for all entities, and it has been valid since the day that the law itself began to apply. has retroactive effect. In practice so far, many legal theorists felt that such an institute was not good and even questioned its constitutionality, and the Constitutional Court itself stated with its own decision that the Institute of Reliable Interpretation was opening up a series of issues arising first and foremost from the process of its adoption and also retroactive effects. Because of all these criticisms and constitutional legal doubts about its legitimacy, it is proposed to abolish it. Furthermore, the resignation of the President and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament is arranged and the replacement of the President of the Parliament is prescribed in case of termination of office which has not been arranged so far. It shall also be prescribed for the working body president to convene the thematic sessions, but based on the conclusion of the working body itself. The Institute of Public Hearing shall be established as the possibility of a home working body to conduct a broader discussion and obtain expert opinions. Laws confirming international agreements are adopted in the first reading, which is also good because there will be no need to explain urgency because so far these laws have been passed in an emergency procedure because it is unnecessary to conduct unnecessary procedures of two readings. It is then proposed that a representative of the club who is not in the hall at the time when it is necessary to speak on behalf of the club loses the right to speak, but that right still has the other members of the said club, but cannot after all the representatives have finished their presentation again. What has already been the most talked about is the proposal to edit the replica institute differently and not significantly different. So the Replical Institute, which in many parliaments does not exist at all in some parliaments, is extremely used under very strict conditions, we have only modified it a little bit, and precisely for the reason that it is in some way put into its frame because we have seen from the previous use of it that what is happening is not good is that individual discussions have practically not arrived or led because we have had the situation to replicate practically by the same representatives behind each of the exhibitions, so that the content of these replicas have not been very different than identical to each other, and this has time-stricken the debate until the late afternoons on one item of the agenda so that individual representatives who would prepare for individual debates have been forced to give up their individual debates. The duration of the speech on the breach of the Rules of Procedure is also reduced to half a minute, which we believe is justified because what is to be said in the injury of the Rules of Procedure we think is really enough half a minute. It's a different arrangement for the Institute of Breaks that I told you about, but that doesn't mean it's a blow to freedom of speech. So until now, the break has been abused many times, and freedom of speech is in no way abolished because MPs have the right to talk about what the agenda topic is through individual debate continues through replication, and they have the right to pause within what is the topic of the agenda to consult within their club. And what was introduced as a novelty is the exposure in front of the club of representatives in the period between 13:00 and 14:00 hours when the media are also present here and when each club can present topics that it considers important. The time for speaking is prescribed, the time for applying for a speech no later than one hour after the start of the presentation of the motions, the possibility of having a united debate, if the majority of the representatives present agree, shall be abolished as a excess because we have an electronic vote, but the obligation to publish the results of the electronic vote in the Parliament's official vote shall therefore be prescribed. It also introduces the right of representatives who are not members of any club of representatives to have the right to common premises and one administrative officer, then that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a parent working body conducts the process of running for their children's counsel and submits a proposal for a selection to comply with the Law on the Ombudsman for children. An obligation shall be introduced to provide, in addition to the draft law, with the exception of the consultation report, a statement of the assessment of the effects of the rules. It is established that the President of the Croatian Parliament can change the order of discussion or decision-making if there are no reports from the home working bodies for each item of the agenda. The time of the session shall also be prescribed. What I want to say in the end, I think there is no reason to protest in this kind of way against these changes because they are not essentially big enough to cause this kind of rebellion and indignation, and we think that they will really contribute to a faster debate and a faster course of plenary session itself, and that they will contribute to the quality of the debate, because we ourselves are aware that for a replica that lasts very briefly does not need to be prepared, while for an individual debate it is still necessary to prepare for something concrete about just the subject of the agenda to be said. The HDZ Club will support these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and we believe that they will also contribute to the better work of the plenary session of the Assembly, and also in other articles that do not concern the work of the plenary session itself, that in one part it will also give importance to the committees that will discuss the reports at their meetings, but that only some reports will be discussed at the plenary session itself, thus avoiding the debate at the meetings of the Assembly on all reports, but will do so by the parent working bodies, as will those reports, as the Commission's report on the conflict of interest, the State Attorney's report, the HRT Director's report, and many others that are important to discuss here at the plenary session, and will also be able to discuss the basis of the work body's conclusion at the plenary session and the parent's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72559	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. We have a few replicas. I'd just like to ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, since the institute is a replica and the answer to the presentation of the MPs, at least wait for the presentation to begin, and then pick up the replica, but here you must have known in advance what they were going to exhibit, so you called in the replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72560	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, when you evaluate parliamentary deputies, you as a parliamentary representative, then you should protect each representative's interests individually. It's up to us to talk and answer. However, here are the rights acquired within the democratic Rules of Procedure which has been adopted... Parliamentarians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No more breaks. You prescribed the exact time when there would be a break. Of course, when no one hears. But I want to be a parliamentary representative, because it chose me, because I receive travel expenses, I receive wages, I have accommodation here because I live far away, it's a huge cost for citizens. They expect me to answer. And a number of questions were raised, so even a government fell. You know that? You remember there's been a government collapse over the pauses, because of the opening of the question, not so long ago. It's just a democratic process. Well, you can't put in a Band-Aid and forbid talking. You can bring it in to be made public I am without a vote. There'll be less cost. I won't need you to pay travel expenses, I won't have to have accommodations, you won't pay me. Here, we solve this and the problem is solved. So we're going to vote as you say, is how the Vice President of Parliament says we vote, to read what we need to read, that's how it is. We'll come once a month, or we'll vote with a text message. We can give that change, but the sense is losing democracy. We were chosen by the people, not by your assessment, not by my assessment. Our people in the elections, where we have the right to all run, to be elected and elected, the people have chosen us to speak. And you count us how many replicas, how many individual debates, you attack us, look how you behave, see what time it is? Look, please. 01,16. At midnight and a half you started. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72561	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72562	Thank you, Vice President. I see colleagues Jelkovac that you have no intention at all to respond to these replicas that we are giving you, which shows that you only want this debate to end as soon as possible, to go home because this is just one formality that needs to be done for you so that what is the great leader here after what happened, after the report he had with the European Council, where he was very unhappy with the criticism on the side of the opposition, has ordered that the Rules of Procedure be changed, that the opposition must be silenced, and now that great leader is followed by Vice-President Milian Brkić, academician Reiner, our Vice President, Branko Bačić and all of you from the HDZ ranks. So you're doing your will just as you do every Friday, so it's a tight circle around your president and the Prime Minister. So, we're all supposed to be the voting machine here, which, by quick procedure, is your obvious goal, without any big debates, is going to vote all the big minds around Andrej Plenkovic, which they come up with, without any discussion, without any criticism. It doesn't matter how strong our arguments are because you obviously have no intention of replicating what we're saying, so it's clear what the goal is and what the intention is. It is not to make Parliament's action more efficient, more concrete, to go more for the benefit of citizens, but to stop the opposition to all the problems facing Croatian society. And that's your goal. I've had a few breaks today on important issues. I saw that they were transferred to certain portals, local themes because I didn't have a custom until now, so in the morning with some local topics, they burdened the entire Croatian public. Now you're taking that away from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72563	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72564	Dear colleague Jelkovac, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I can tell you my opinion on these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The vast majority of the debate actually goes without a debate actually goes without debate, you know that. And why is that? So there is no representative in the assembly. Empty Parliaments, discussing a few people with themselves. There. And rarely when such interesting debates are actually launched, where there are a lot of speakers, etc. And what you're doing is actually killing the debate, because exactly the replicas are the most interesting part of the debate, and why, I'll explain it to you. Because you're used to monologues in HDZ. You're used to someone talking for 10 minutes at a time or hours without stopping, like when that HDZ conference was being broadcast to HTV 4, which lasted five hours. The people had to watch it, your congregation as you choose each other, and it doesn't matter, because it's only one candidate. It was pure propaganda. And people like dynamic debates, they just love replicas, they just like when it comes to conflicting opinions, and not that every one of us, here I ask you, as a person, try to imagine that you're a watcher of HTV watching the Assembly, imagine that one by one MP is saying 10 minutes or on the other side that he has a replica of one another, that he's saying every time, means when he's replicating what he's said, and not that you come in two hours in a row and you've already forgotten what you wanted to say at the beginning, etc. I think that these changes are only done because, in order to kill the debate, only to make the Parliament less attractive and as much as you object to Mrs Jelkovac, the Parliament has never been so much seen and you know it very well, that it is not because of you from HDZ but also from the Living Wall. And now you want to liquidate us from the debate, but you'll see that you won't succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72565	I thank my colleague. The next replica is a respected colleague, Goran Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72566	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, I've heard a lot of thesis today, but the one you just said at the pay phone is one of the strangest. You said that replicas make it impossible for MPs who have prepared to come to order and say what they would like or at the very least to interfere with them in their quality discussions. So by that logic, by that logic, the representative who was preparing for the debate would be distracted but now we don't know fellow Jelkovac, how much of a replica. According to your assessment, tell us, you probably analyzed it, how many replicas, which are being disrupted by the MPs, which has been well prepared? Is that 10 replicas, is that 30 replicas, is that 75 replicas? Is there 15 replicas in the afternoon? Is 12 replicas of 12-1. As many replicas as they may be, let's say a quality discussion of Mr. Branko Bačić. He prepares, comes prepared for discussion, for example today was about business apartments and alas Grmoja, Bulj, Maras, Franjic, starts with replicas, how many replicas will make it impossible for him to display his debate quality? Maybe we should put that in the Rules of Procedure. That no specific number of replicas should be taken place before the debate of the HDZ representatives. So tell us, how many replicas disable a representative's quality debate, as you just said about the pay phone. Is that 12, 15 or 32? That we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72567	I thank my colleague. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72568	Thank you. Dear colleague Jelkovec, so you are, excuse me, but it's a late hour and we are no longer at that level of concentration, as we were a few hours ago. So I apologize for the mistakes during the show tonight. We are both members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, you are also the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. You must also know that there is also a decision of the 2004 Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in which the Rules of Procedure have the power of law. Which means that, by good practice and by recommendation of the Constitutional Court, we should bring it in a regular procedure, which means in 2 readings, not in an emergency procedure. And that's for sure, I can now tell you, I'm subject to constitutional judicial evaluation. That part will certainly be challenged by the emergency procedure. In your opinion, why risk it, an emergency procedure for such an important act? When you are aware that this may be a serious objection, the Rules of Procedure shall fall entirely on the constitutional judicial evaluation. Here, I'm asking you as a member of the Constitutional Committee and at the same time as the chairman of the Legislative Committee. Why risk falling into the water when there's a precedent, when there's a Constitutional Court decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72569	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Podolnjak, the next replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72570	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelkovac, you were talking about a short cut of these changes, most of them are pointless and it's actually a step backwards. You also said that what we're witnessing, I guess you were thinking about this wave of replicas, is just proof that you need to reduce the institute of replicas, degrade. On the contrary, however, you cannot cut the rights so much that the truth would not find a way. Things will continue to be said in this House, however much you try to limit what you count with quality, which on schedule during the day is the time for discussion. As for the changes themselves, I would like to read a section on the page. 5 of your proposal, so please explain it to me, quote, in a different way is arranged by the Institute of Break and it is proposed to leave out the explanation of the representatives of the club of representatives after the passage of the time in which the break took place, the end of the quote. I'm asking you to explain it because it's ambiguous, it's triplicate, and I'm asking you to keep the rules in writing in uniform and that they can be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72571	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72572	Dear colleague Jelkovac, you did not make a good argument about this so-called. Obstruction because it will also be possible under the new Rules of Procedure, so you will be able to search for breaks of 10 minutes and you will not be able to speak after that for 5 minutes and instead of one break we will ask for 3. Instead of each individual debate, it will be after each replica. Also, in that sense, it will not bring much happiness. Secondly, there is an article 234 in the current Rules of Procedure which has never been used and it speaks of a limitation of time for individual debates and I think it is a good institute that should be applied, which is that each club gets a certain amount of time so that they themselves agree that this amount of time will be allocated. Maybe they'd criticise my colleague Maras for taking too much of our time, maybe even commending him, who knows. Also, there are only two very binding things in these changes. So, they would personally be acceptable to me without those two things. So that's what we've submitted the amendment to. One of these is the transfer of current topics from 9.45 to 13.00, which actually limits the topics that would be spoken in the Croatian Parliament and the other is combined with the Pharaohic authority of the President of the Parliament to determine which points of the agenda it will be at. Therefore, the right to choose points in a more normal term and secondly, is limited, the possibility of the work of MPs is denied, most often opposed to putting some points on the agenda. With these two amendments, this would even be an acceptable proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72573	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Next replica, honorary colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, come in. And I apologize, dear colleague Jelkovac, for the reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72574	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, I'm sure you're aware that this is the first time you've gotten used to taking a break, that you will continue to be called to the beginning even though there is no post after that, only you will be called 3 times and not once, I'm sure you're aware that it's the abuse of the rest institute again. But it's also your right as an opposition if you think it's in your political interest to do so. This proves that we did not go through these changes in any way to remove or modify the institutes in order to prevent a representative’s speech. What you were finally saying was that the President of the Parliament was given Pharaoh's powers, as regards the establishment of the agenda and that these amendments would be acceptable to you if you put in the agenda the points you proposed, then let's say to you that you said that once in a reasonable time and in some order, that it would be acceptable for you to make these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that means that all of this you are actually discussing is not at all controversial, but you are proposing this as a condition for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure and you yourself are very well aware when you were ruling that you never put on the agenda of the points proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72575	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac for his reply. Next replica, honorary colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72576	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Jelkovac, there is one saying "drink upside down". What am I saying? You said in your statement that the opposition led to a situation to discuss the Rules of Procedure in the late evening and that it would be early in the morning. The agenda, and what will be at the agenda points, determines the President of the Parliament. The President of the Parliament, when he decided for today to be the first point of the POS Law that we all knew would be challenging since it was announced that one of the demographic measures was in it, caused a debate and that the Law on renting apartments would not even talk. If each of us had held a series of meetings that had a series of e-mails, we knew there wouldn't be a club that would not discuss it, and we knew that at best the Rules of Procedure that everything was very fast and that there was no replica and that we had reduced the experience that the debate on the Rules of Procedure might come in the evening. Maybe not at midnight, but at 9:00 or 10:00 p.m., yes. Therefore, when the agenda was agreed and the Rules of Procedure came on Thursday, the Rules of Procedure could come on Friday, on purpose the President of the Parliament decided to discuss it in the late evening hours, and we did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72577	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, this proposal of the Rules of Procedure is nothing more than the silence of all MPs, silence in fact all the problems that cause this people but the most surprising and surprising thing that this proposal comes from HDZ and when we know that in the name of the second letter is just that "d", that democracy. Well, I don't know that the kind of democracy is silence, it's more like a regimeal former system that wanted to silence every single member of parliament or every man who wanted to talk publicly about any kind of problem. I listened very carefully to your presentations, you said that this proposal from the Rules of Procedure came from analysis, replica analysis, analysis of breaks, everything. And before we discussed this day for ten hours about a law where there could be no analysis of even 3800 flats at the state level in the last eight years of unnecessary breaks. Unnecessary breaks are that if you want us assembly representatives to be aware of as one ficuse that will arrive there on Friday around 11, 12 hours when the vote is, press these three buttons or if you want to silence everyone. As far as the grades are concerned, the Council's grades are low because the state of the country is as it is. Your former secretary of state today presented the information that is clear to everyone, 150 people lose daily, coming out of Croatia. We have over 3800 people caught in the public administration compared from 2017 to 2015 because of this, the assessments are low-level parliament, government evaluations, and in general in Croatia, the situation is not good. And as much as you want to shut us up, I don't think you'll be able to shut us up. In fact, after this presentation, I'm going to ask for a personal break as far as the public administration is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72579	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Answer, dear colleague Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72580	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, we are indeed the Croatian Democratic Community and we are not ashamed of these proposed changes because they are not being denied any of us the right to speak. We are all in the same status and we all have equal rights and you as part of the opposition and I as part of the position. And we all have a few opportunities for the public to hear us. It's not just an institute break, it's not just a replica. So it is our obligation here to discuss constructively the proposals of the law in order to bring them in that they are in the interest of our citizens and to produce the best possible effects. And as for the discussion of other topics that we consider to be important, and not on the agenda, we have the possibility of calling the press, and now the institution has been introduced to give the opportunity to present every club representative in a certain time that is just no longer in the morning as soon as the session begins, but it is in the midday period when all the media are there and it will convey everything that we are talking about, so that really this is your hitting on us with us to shut up, we are suffocating democracy is really not real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72581	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac for his reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72582	Now we can go to the next club of MPs and that's the one with the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which, please. He has brought up the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72583	Mr. Chairman, we have a situation I consider to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if it's ever happened before in this House, but it's the next fact that you're now the promoter and the chairman. And I don't think you can be in dual function at the same time, because I can't replicate to you as chairman but I would have the right as the person who's proposing the act we're discussing right now. So you can't sit as chairman now when you're proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure. You can't be in double function at the same time that it never happened, that as a proposing sits in the chair of the chairman. I think that... That's impossible, because I can't replicate the chairman, I can't. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] But I can replicate the proposer. So you can't be in double function right now. And at this point, you are in double function.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72584	Kologa Podolnjak Please don't. [[You're right, you're a colleague of the Podolnjak, good for you. You're right.]] Let's calm down. Can we calm down for a minute? So, first of all, colleague Podolnjak, find me where it says it in the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. ... What does it say? [[I don't understand.]] Please read the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72585	The applicant may take part in the hearing at the end of the debate or during any explanation during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72586	That's right. But if I don't use it, therefore...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72587	Therefore, I can replicate to you but not as chairman. You, as chairman, must conduct the session neutrally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72588	That doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72589	You, as chairman, do not participate in mutual replicas and debates You are only implementing the Rules of Procedure in a way that you give your word to assess whether we stick to the Rules of Procedure, but not that you, at the same time, are involved in the debate. [[Intruder Reiner: Of course, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72590	No, I'm not in the position of a motionary. I'm in office as chairman now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72591	But then there's no proposing, then there's no proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72592	It's run, it's got members and committees to do with it. Of course not! ... [[Grmoya Intruder: Who are the members?]] Please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I reject this objection of yours. Therefore, you can contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Dear Representative Maras, here you are. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72593	Point 231, 232, 233 has been injured. So, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72594	I'm sorry, it's got nothing to do with that. You're talking literally, don't drag me into the language of what. That has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72595	Mr. Vice President, then there's no point in proposing there if you can't answer our questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72596	Proposers exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72597	And who's the proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72598	There is. I don't have to answer to you first, and no one can force the Proposer to answer. So, as you know, you can never get the Proposer to answer. [[Intruder Maras: No, but then there's no point in proposing.]] So please be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72599	But we don't have a proposal, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72600	I've already explained it to you, and now you can accept it or not accept it. Comrade Bull, here you go. [[/Intruder Maras: What warning? Well, we're not at the game.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72601	Thank you very much. Article 233 at this point m and we don't know who the proposer is. We know who runs the session, Vice President Reiner, and on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Reiner was authorized. Who's in charge now, who's the promoter? Here's what I'm asking the clubs, a 10-minute break, to consult if we have any conditions under Article 233, do we have any conditions for continuing our work because we don't have a proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72602	So here's what I'm going to say to you, colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72603	Mr. Reiner, I'd like to ask the clubs to pause for 10 minutes the only one in the authorized document of this proposal is you, Mr. Rainer. We don't have a proposer here. [[Intruder Reiner: That's right, that's right.]] We have a man running the session, and he's in business, so he's the chairman of this session. So I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Most Representatives Club... And that's why you're changing your rules of procedure, and that's why you were unprepared for what you did. [[The speakers speak out loud. You don't understand.]] This circus, Mr. Chairman, this circus of a very important topic for this House. The terms of the session are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72604	Comrade Bulj, read article 233 where it says... you're out of time I can explain to you if you read article 233, I see that it is customary not to read the Rules of Procedure. [[Who is the god in this House? Mr. Reiner, Mr. Reiner, you are subject to the Rules of Procedure as is the case for us Parliamentarians. I'd like a 10-minute break.]] Therefore, the Proposer may speak at the opening presentation, in the presentation at the end of the debate may speak etc. It doesn't have to... Where does that say? ... [[The intruders on the side, they don't understand. Speakers speak out loud/]] That's why we have the Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The Committee shall be the Proposer. Okay. Take it easy. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72605	Well, Mr. Reiner, an enigma for me, according to your interpreter, could come here for a pay phone, hypothetically come and go, and we could actually debate the laws in the absence of anyone. So no one has to sit there. Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72606	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72607	But you're saying now that the proposer doesn't have to be here, and you say, you're part of the proposal. Okay. Let's say he did. But how will you explain it to us during the debate? We have no one to discuss with here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72608	I don't have to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72609	But we want to discuss the bill with the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72610	Understand what is stated in Article 233. Yes, but it doesn't have to give you, and it has often happened that, of course, the promoter didn't give the answers... Intruder Bulj: a 10 minute break should be taken./... [[The speakers speak out loud. You don't understand.]] [[Invader Pernar: You remind me, Mr. Reiner, of that film Terminator where Arnold Schwarzgeneger says: Talk to the hand. And we can talk to you now, but it's not gonna happen. ...]] My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72611	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, when I come to the pay phone now...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72612	Please, let your colleague Sincic speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72613	When I came for the pay phone, I'd like to ask the proposer a question. As far as I'm concerned, he's gone. There were no ministers and we used to argue without them. Then I ask you to call yourself, go there, answer, then come back, call yourself back and then go back and come back so you can be the chairman. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72614	Okay. ... No, the circus works for you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72615	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 233 has been injured. If it isn't, then would you please explain to me how you're right, that you can conduct both functions at the same time? So both the promoter and the chairman because if so, which is why, when you were in office of the promoter, the vice president, Miljan Brkic, was sitting in your seat. Why weren't you from the chairman's office proposing? In fact, the key question that's being asked, is the proposer even present at this point? Well, of course not. [[- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72616	Now, whoever thinks that the Rules of Procedure is hurt, I ask you to bear... a request to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system. [[Intruders, speakers speak out loud. You don't understand.]] My fellow Son, you've been looking for... and I'm sorry, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72617	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in fact, this provision is disputed. 233. The Rules of Procedure, because right now, we have someone who sits down, but we don't have anyone who suggests it. And this actually opened up a hot topic for us. We are going to amend the Rules of Procedure, so this is the subject of the amendment, that through the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we are asking that always the Proposer be there because we may have a situation to discuss the law without anyone from the Ministry being present. That's the situation now. We have someone who presides, but we don't have a proposing. So, theoretically, it's possible that no one from the government is here when he proposes the law, and this is a hot story, since we're already going to change our Rules of Procedure to keep changing in this sense, so let's make sure that we always have a Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72618	Well, we always have a proposer. Here, colleague Sincic, you asked for a word. [[We don't always have a proposer.]] Here you go. ... It was a flat. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder Maras: give a break to make a deal.]] Comrade Sincic, here you go. In your opinion. [[Intruder Maras: but no working conditions.]] You've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure already. Okay. Here's your buddy, Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72619	Dear Vice President, I'd like to ask you to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure, Art. 233. At this point in the Croatian Parliament, we do not have a proposing. You, as chairman, are a neutral person who coordinates the work of this high house and cannot at the same time be a proposer of this act. So you can't be the promoter and the chairman at the same time. I'm begging you. I know that those who chaired the assembly are tired, but if HDZ insists that out of the public eye, discuss this point, please call the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Milan Brkic or the President of the Croatian Parliament Gordan Jandrokovic or someone from the vice president to come here and get back to that function with which you started this point, which is the function of the chairman. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72620	The breach of the Rules of Procedure raised and respected counsel Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72621	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's doing the truth, and he's doing the record, which is what it says, in art. In paragraph 2, where is only the applicant mentioned? Proposer, i.e. representatives of the applicant, who... may speak in the opening statement at the beginning, for a maximum period of 30 minutes, in the presentation at the end of the debate, for a maximum period of 30 minutes and on the occasion of each explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you don't say anywhere that he should talk or that he should. So he only defines what he can speak and don't. I don't know what kind of Rules of Procedure can be brought to you, but try to work on this Rules of Procedure that is now in force. You don't work in this Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmoy, read it, and you will see it there. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. ... He's the promoter. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait a minute, what are you yelling at, fellow Podolanjak, slowly... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Wait a minute, I'm asking you nicely,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I, Maras, kept you quiet while you were talking, I'm just asking nicely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the event that Mr Reiner, who is both the Vice-President of the Parliament and the chairman of the Committee and the parliamentary representative, answers the floor, he cannot then be chaired. But since he doesn't answer the word, as long as he doesn't answer the word, he's the chairman. ... Well, Leko had a situation like that, what you're saying, Maras, you're forgetting what happened yesterday. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72622	Here you go, pal. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72623	But, Mr. Reiner, I have an important thought about the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Reiner, I'll be very brief. He's right, Mr. Schucker, when he says a representative can or doesn't have to take a word, if he wants to or won't, it's true. But the key word is you can, and you in the function that you are, makes it seem that you can't, so you... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've disabled the current proposing's representative to speak, he can't speak, because he's here in function... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] He's in office as president and he can't... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] He can't take the word, that's the key to it. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] If Mr. Reiner could take the word and speak for the promoter, there would be no problem, there would be no debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72624	Thank you very much. Here's your colleague, Sincic. ... No, no, there's now a break, now there can't be a break, now you're going to let your colleague Sincic talk. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please, let's just calm down and let it go, buddy, please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72625	Thank you, colleague Reiner, at the beginning of my speech, I'll look back on the page. 4 stands, so from the ranks of MPs, so on the first day, the first session of the Croatian Parliament is elected president and I ask the motionary to explain it, if he is not there, I ask him to come and wait until he arrives. Thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72626	I'm sorry, sir. The board has designated Mr Reiner as the sole rapporteur. and no one else [[Intruder Sincic: Mr. Reiner.]] That's right, I can't be here as a proposing... [[Intruder: As Rapporteur.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72627	Again, I call on the Proposer to explain to me, therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure this provision on page 4 of the first sentence. ... What does the first day of the first session mean? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72628	I ask you to allow your colleague Sincic to speak, I ask you to allow your colleague Sincic to speak, do not disturb him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72629	I'm waiting for the applicant's answer to my inquiry in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I'm looking for an interpretation. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72630	Please, please. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72631	I ask that the Proposer appear, it is enough that the bill, that there is no minister, no secretary, and that we discuss in front of an empty bench here, especially when the budgets, whenever it comes to the Order of the Living Wall Club and the SNAG, there is no one there, or there is someone from the third one, especially no diameter from the financials or anything like that. I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Proposer explain this sentence, so what is the first day of the first session of the Croatian Parliament, which determines who will therefore be president in crisis situations. I've asked that question before, my colleague Jelkovac, if I'm not mistaken, I didn't get an answer. ... The board has, like, 13 members. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Speakers speak at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72632	Please don't yell from the bench. Please. Let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72633	The assembly has five vice presidents, one president, why is there only one person from the presidency here today available on such an important topic, and why is the topic at all at this time?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72634	Here's your colleague, Sincic. ... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't get used to it. Let's let my colleague Son say what he thinks. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... I answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72635	I don't think Mr. Chairman's gonna show up, so I don't lose my speech, I'm still gonna say something. I think it's clear how this institution works where we work, so let's take it in order. It is now 2.28 so about half three in the night, only this time where we are and at what time we are in the situation where we are talking about the seriousness or the initiative that is going to change this Rules of Procedure. After an almost all-day debate on household law, a protected tenant who in many elements is reduced to Ustashas and Partisans, unfortunately in this context in the rocks of the hour, this is how one important document is put to debate. It didn't have to be today, it didn't have to be about an emergency procedure, no, the entire parliamentary life and the entire national policy is largely taking place in Parliament, and the entire future work of Parliament is defined by this Rules of Procedure and, in this degraded way, the ruling majority led by Mr Plenkovic, here Mr Reiner refers to all this. This is the degradation of the Croatian Parliament, the degradation of democracy, the degradation of political work, the degradation of individuals as representatives. 40 weeks a year we work 2.5 days a week as far as this building is concerned, are we working or should at least work in the field and everything else and some are too much. This is an attack on active agents who are well part of the opposition right now. Let's say that there's some debate on the agenda, let's say today that has 30 people registered, according to the old Rules of Procedure that still stands until tomorrow and that week you could have twice 30 that's 60 minutes to speak plus individually 70 minutes. And according to the new Rules of Procedure, you'll have three replicas per minute, so three minutes plus 10, 13 minutes. From 70 minutes to 13 minutes, it lowers the time when a representative can speak and then someone says it's not a reduction of rights. It's a multiple reduction of rights, it's equalizing those that we heard today we never said anything but swear, which almost never read anything, they don't come up for a word, they're not here at all, except on Fridays when the tide comes to vote then the tide goes down again, the equality of those and the most active ones that have 500, 600 as much as they have the most active per thousand now they're all the same. Each one has three replicas. Why is the Rules of Procedure changing right now? so that when the attorney general comes here when we ask him why crime, economic crime, organised crime is not being prosecuted in Croatia, that we can only ask him three times in three cases, and not 30, so now the Rules of Procedure is changing. The Rules of Procedure also alter that when the issue of Agrokor comes here that only three times we can ask for three things to answer, not 10, 20 or 30. This is the adoption of the Croatian Assembly to monologues when the debate begins I usually say open debate, no, if we continue this way to let the chairman speak freely, let the monologue begin, let the monology begin let everyone say theirs without replicas or with very little replicas, we go home and it doesn't matter what we say here. It's all farce. We are increasingly down here on robots, as if the process were a democratic process of parliamentary procedure in the Croatian Parliament as if it were some kind of production process that should be automated, robotized. Here cut, there save, save on the human element only that the apparatus throws out laws as quickly as possible with less criticism and critical thoughts, questioning with as little cognitive abilities, thinking, reading, memory, after all and speaking. I don't want us to come down to machines, to robots. This is also centralization because we depend on Plenkovic on more and more things. Here's an example, I'm president of the Committee on Gender Equality. This committee, or Parliament, has 28 other committees. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which I have not heard so far, is that it is no longer possible to call a thematic session without the decision of the council of MPs. It's hard to invite MPs to come at all, to hold the quorum. Because if it's Mondays and Tuesdays, then they're not here because there's no session. If it contains on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, they're not on the board, because they're like a session in theory. And now, I have on my desk a call from the Widow of the Homeland War, wife of victims of violence, single fathers. We need to organize a thematic session. No, I have to pray to the HDZ, so I have to pray indirectly to Bačić and Plenkovic. I must beg Plenkovic for mercy to organise my thematic session. Anyway, the committees are downgraded, anyway, the board president has very few functions and things that he can do, and now you're going to put that under control and cut it down. We don't agree to this Rules of Procedure except for a few little things that are a mouse step forward like this public hearing. This is one disaster, an attempt to suppress freedom of speech in opposition. Let's take it in a row. The President's resignation case, I'm still looking for a motion to explain what it means. Please, it stands here in the third paragraph: "It is proposed to be replaced by the President of the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of MPs who had most of the first day, the first session of the Croatian Parliament. What is the first day of the first session of the Croatian Assembly? What's that? What day is it and who is it? Let's take the situation in 2015 when Mr. Podolnjak was supposed to be elected President of the Parliament here. At that time, no one knew who had won the election, no one would have the Most. What if we all voted Mr. Dolnjak unanimously then? What, then, is the order of MPs who had a majority? Then what's that line of MPs then here? Is that a bridge? Is that SDP? Is that all of us? And how we're going to determine that item, it's also undefined. I expect the applicant to explain this to me. Let's move on. Report on the work of the body and legal persons with public authority. Another disaster. It simply says here that apart from some exceptions from the State's Attorney's Office, HRT, etc. discusses on committees. So when HanFA comes here, when he comes here to HACOM, when we ask what's going on in the mail, in telecommunications, it's not going to happen in this Chamber, in this hall, and it's going to happen and talk and broadcast. No, it's there in some room in front of the questionable how many people, questionable at what time something would be a little debated. And then you'll just come here to vote. This is a direct attempt to make all these other bodies and their reports and their work untransparent, not to be questioned, to remove the critical thought from HANFA, HACOM and all other bodies listed here. Unacceptable, totally unacceptable! And under an explanation to speed up the work. We're working on Tuesdays if we have to, we're working on Saturdays, but let's not move those important institutions out of this room into some room over there. Let's at least let the boards be highlighted, filmed. No, hardly, citizens don't even know they exist. In the Bureau session, I repeatedly advocated putting emphasis on committees. There is an exception, of course, that based on the conclusion of the working body, there are some exceptions, but of course everything depends on the will of the parliamentary majority. So where there's something to hide, it's going to be very easy to hide. Let's move on. International contracts, another wonderful thing. International contracts can be stronger than Croatian laws, but we don't need a thorough public debate but an emergency procedure, an ultimatum, and no matter what comes from Europe, we simply say immediately. Who asks you, raise your hands and go home. And now we'll have international contracts also in emergency procedures, almost without debate. In a few more years, maybe you'll throw them in some room over there on the board, discuss it in front of three non-public deputies, and then we'll just vote here. It's bringing it down to absurd. Let's move on. Replica one minute. I don't even have to say what a disaster it is. What about some of us who talk a little slower, who can't say everything they thought in one minute? They will be denied expression. Let's make it at least a minute and a half. Then there's the break problem. So time is scheduled from 13 to 14 hours for breaks. When we divide it by 5 as much as it says it's going to stay the time of the break, it remains that 12 clubs will be able to look for a break. What about the thirteenth club? He will rise, he will lose his right, he cannot exercise his rights under the Rules of Procedure. What if one day there's 20 clubs? How they're gonna get a break. What if they only answer HDZ and SDP and fill in 10 minutes? What about the other 50? Can they ask for another break again or is that it? It's not all explained here. Mr. Proposer, you don't care. You don't care. Let's move on. The apartments are placed outside the focus at lunchtime when the smallest ratings of Croatian citizens are far away. It is a direct step, so a step of silence and of course, except for changing the term, moving the term, reducing the quantity. You can't look like you're looking all the time now, even though we've caricated a little bit here, we know why. Because they've caricated with what we're doing at midnight, but you can't ask for, say, three times a day, but only when they say, where they say a little bit more and they'll say what to say. The name vote is abolished, and colleague Jelkovac explains how? We don't need a name vote, because we have an electronic vote. Great! Then let's cut it electronically. Why? Because we have a name or a secret because we have a public record. So it's an argument to itself. It's not an argument in itself. Namely, the vote has the point of public seeing, of seeing the whole public and of saying out of their mouth what they think and how they think. We didn't use it much anyway. Is that 10, 20, half an hour more trouble once every two months, three months, six months? I don't think it's a problem. Totally unnecessary. All in all, we have made several amendments to correct this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. I expect they'll all be rejected. Once again, this is the degradation of political work, the equalization of those who want to work and are working on those who are only voting machinery. This is automation, turning into machines. This is silence, this is the centralization of work. We all now depend even more on Plenkovic and his close associates, and this is asphyxiation of critical opinion and freedom of speech. Because this is obviously the ultimate goal because we went through Facebook and there doing censorship, shutting down sites, signing up, so we went over HRT where the same thing was happening. This is ultimately one of the final stages of spreading corruption. Corruption began at the moment when the over-debt took place, when individual representatives were purchased. It has spread to the Committee on Agrokor and to lex Agrokor and to Mr Ramljak, and has expanded to the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, and has encountered a number of bad OPG laws, agricultural land, many others, to finalise this corruption in the form of changes to the Rules of Procedure today and tomorrow. The living wall and the Force will vote against this disgraceful Rules of Procedure, a HDZ child who even refuses to give attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72636	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas and multiple injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Maybe we can do the replicas first on a colleague of Sincic's, and then all the injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Do you agree? Comrade Bauk, here you go. [[No, damage to the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72637	Vice-President, I would like to inform you that as a member of the Constitutional Committee, I am prepared to give Mr Sincic an explanation on Article 4, so if you allow me to take the floor on behalf of the motionary, since you are busy with the presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72638	Thank you very much. That won't be necessary. ... Here's my colleague Panenic. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here's my colleague Panenic. [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72639	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I am injuring the Rules of Procedure under Article 238, because Agent Ivan Shuker was insulting her, in fact demeaning MP Ante Pranic by implying that he didn't know the matter we're talking about, so I would ask that you take action here. You've forgotten a little bit. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure right after that, but since there was a delay, then there was a forgetting. So it's simply forgotten, but from that position, Mr. Anti Pranic was demeaning him by implying that he didn't actually know the role he was in and the job he was assigned to as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72640	Okay. I estimate it's not much of an insult, but much worse things have been said unfortunately in this House. There's been more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Articles 133 and 184 have been injured. In fact, in Article 33, you have violated Article 33 and says: “The President of the Assembly is concerned about the procedure for the adoption of laws and other acts.” And Article 174 states: “The legislator is obliged to inform the President of the Assembly who will give notices and explanations to the working bodies and the Assembly, that is, the need for an explanation in the proposed bill.” You, as President of the Parliament, call on the motion to give an explanation to the honourable representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72642	You just have to look at it in the article that you've all been invited to before, because he explains this. It is, I'm afraid not. But good. Do we still have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? He was. Here's your esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72643	Thank you very much, Vice President. I ask you nicely to comply with the provisions of Article 241. Rules of Procedure. Speak away from the session. The MP will be given a strict step away from the Parliament's session when he acts against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and makes it impossible for the Parliament to work with his behaviour. At this point, you are making it impossible for the Parliament to work with you because you are a double personality, in a double role as Parliament's chairman and as a promoter. And we can't work, because we don't know what you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72644	I've said it before. If anyone thinks the Rules of Procedure are injured, I don't think so. If you feel that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, I ask you to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72645	Mr. Rainer, it's almost 3:00 in the morning and we're tired, but we haven't lost our sanity. So if you told Bauku right now he couldn't speak on behalf of the promoter You said he couldn't speak on behalf of the proposer. [[I didn't say he couldn't speak.]] Tell who can speak on behalf of the Proposer [[No, no. I'm sorry, I didn't say that. Don't say what I'm not. I said there's no need.]] That there's no need? [[I said there's no need.]] And in the name of whom did you say that? [[Intruder Reiner: Yes.]] On behalf of the Chairman or the Proposer? [[Invader Reiner: In your name.]] On behalf of Chairman Reiner or Proposer Reiner? [[I said it for myself.]] Is he a proposing agent or is he running a session? [[Attack Reiner: Representative Reiner.]] Well, we can't work. [[Intruder Rainer: We can outwit ourselves by morning if you want, but we'd better get to work.]] Did you tell Bauk as a proposing that he can't speak, that there's no need? All right. [[/Intruder Reiner: No. No, I don't. I said there's no need.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[But I didn't tell him he couldn't talk. Excuse me. I never told him in any way that he couldn't talk.]] You only gave advice. There's no need. And God...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72646	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72647	Thank you very much. It is also an infringement of Article 133 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the A colleague of Maras. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The infringement of Article 133 has a chairman and we have no proposing or you are in conflict of interest. [[Intruder Maras: The speaker does not understand.]] We obviously can't do anything to you, and you've taken the right here to be both a representative, and a promoter and a chairman. The only thing we can report you to a conflict of interest, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, but we can't do that either because you didn't elect the president. I don't know what you've brought this institution and the Croatian Parliament and the Committee for Conflict of Interest, because I would have sent a real memo that you're in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72648	What does the Committee have to do with anything? Now you've started...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72649	And you're making fun of the entire Parliament, Proposer Reiner, Agent Reiner, Chairman Reiner. You're almost God on earth. I don't know if you realize that there are no conditions for the session to continue. My colleague Sincic has asked you countless times as a motionary, you are silent. He tells his colleague Bauk that he will answer in front of the Committee, you say you cannot. He asks you, colleague Maras, did you say that as a proposalor or as chairman? You say I said as a parliamentary representative. [[/Intruder Reiner: Time. Your time's up, pal.]] You are a constant example of conflict of interest, and we have no conditions to continue work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72650	First, fellow Shuker. No, I don't. You're giving up. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72651	Yeah, yeah, yeah. You don't have to throw a colleague of Shucker away because I'm going to have to ask him again for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So the president of the 233rd article, we're looking for a colleague, Sincic, should have stayed in place. We should not have allowed this debate to continue here because there is no motion. There's no proposer. You don't even know what function you're in anymore. You're a chairman, you're an hour promoter, and in the end, we've come to the conclusion that you're in office as an agent. We have no conditions to continue the debate on this important issue. Call means someone to come and replace you and that you can be back in the function with which you started this point. You can't be in three functions during the debate on this point. We don't have a proposal. We're asking for someone to come here. So there's no one to come but you, you're the only one who's authorized by the Committee to be the proposer, which implies that someone else has to chair the session. Please call one of your vice presidents and have them come here. Here, I'll call my colleague Petrova, he'll be very happy to come now. Well, the question is whether or not we'll continue when he sits there. But I can call him if you want. Here, can I call him so he can take over for you and make you a promoter? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72652	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesandric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72653	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have violated all points of this Rules of Procedure. Now let me explain it to you. A colleague, Maras, asked if you were here giving advice to a colleague named Bauku from the position of the motionor or from the chair. You responded from the post of counsel. So, by God, where can the representative preside? If that's the case, here's what I'm gonna do for you as a representative and be the chairman. Well, I guess I have to have the post of vice president of the Croatian Parliament, huh? ... You don't understand because you said you were just an agent. [[You don't understand anything at all.]] You're not just a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72654	No, no. I didn't just say representative. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72655	So you can't just sit there as a representative, that's impossible. Make up your mind. Here, any of us can come in that way. .../Speakers speak out loud./... And he can. But he said he spoke as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72656	Thank you. My colleague Sincic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please be my guest. .../Speakers speak out loud./... Please, please don't. Let your colleague Sincic tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72657	Mr. Rainer, this really isn't funny anymore. Article 238, therefore, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zeljko Reiner, has offended me in this schizophrenic situation, and I ask that it be sanctioned, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a distance from the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72658	Okay. I estimate he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Shucker. You're giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72659	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72660	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. All night long this debate, i.e. In the morning, article 133 was violated, and finally the promoter appeared, which means that the Rules of Procedure are finally no longer in breach, because we have an applicant in the front row, and that's Mr. Reiner. And this is just a confession to your arrival, Mr. Chairman, that this session was being held against business. And indeed it would be appropriate to apologize to the MPs, you as chairman of what we discussed without the motion. Because in one person he can't be the promoter and the chairman. This is an eclectic example of conflict of interest, and I would ask you as chairman because my colleague Reiner couldn't give himself a sanction, so that you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give a sanction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72661	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. First of all, you've committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure to the presentation of colleagues of Maras. Second, you have called on Article 133, see what Article 133 means to you, which is to ask the question of the MPs. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. If you are not satisfied, you can contact the committee responsible for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and submit an application for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. We're going back to work. On behalf of the Representatives' Club. .../Speakers speak out loud./... All right. Excuse me. We have replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72662	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[Intruder Brkić: I did not give you a warning from my colleagues.]] My friend Sincic, you've been asking questions to the proposer. You didn't get an answer from the applicant. This is one serious document of freedom of speech. If MPs, regardless of how they are called on to evaluate the MPs, how they will evaluate me, you can only be judged by the people in the elections, and cannot be able to suggest that Mr Reiner says that we are evaluated in parliament. So we're talking about a serious document. You ask too many questions, and you don't get an answer because there's no proposing. So there is a session and debate in the Croatian Parliament against business, and they change the Rules of Procedure. So imagine what it's absurd. This is an absordist. This should be called not the Parliament, but the Absordist. Those who propose a Rules of Procedure, he violates it. Does he think he's God? And the promoter, and the parliamentary representative, and the chairman, and of course it's Plenkovic at this point, used to be Karamarko, before that Sanader didn't matter. They worship so, but the deities in democracy are gone and I believe that your quality debate is simply so at this time at three o'clock in the morning is so demoted by the promoters because it wasn't there. There were no business conditions for you to have a discussion at all. And the question arises, what is the point of this debate besides banning speech, freedom of speech, as they forbade journalists on HTV who, as they forbid you, change the Rules of Procedure most because of you and me from the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72663	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Reply by a respected colleague, Ivan Velibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72664	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bull, thank you for your replica. I am in my debate which has been greatly disturbed, so I have explained in a dozen things of sixteen how many changes I have counted all of what is prescribed and how it will affect the representatives and the work in this Croatian Assembly. I've also made some conclusions as to what it's going to mean. Here, from today's event, we have at least two situations that should also be regulated by amendments to the Rules of Procedure. One of the schizophrenic situations is not even a double, but perhaps a triple through the proposings, the chairman and the MP how to resolve it to the Rules of Procedure, it would be good to further define some cases. And of course there's another situation that's come up. As for the degradation of our deputies yes, I still here the first breach of the Rules of Procedure I requested was precisely the president of the then convened Assembly VIII. Mr. Reiner, don't answer my counsel's questions. And today I am waiting for an answer to many of my representative questions. So, they don't respect us as MPs, either through parliamentary issues, or through the time when we need to work. So this work and effort that we need to expose to the Croatian public is rejected, demoted and evened with those who are not there and not debated. There's also this kind of behavior I'd say rudely on a higher level. The mass of times happens to have no proposer or no loud proposer. And the worst part, to our enquiries to explain to us this ambiguous, three-sense writing of the law, which actually means there's no answer in practice. Here I am again asking Mr. Reiner to explain this situation with the first day of the first session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72665	I thank my colleague Sincic. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72666	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sincic, to say about the very silence you have shown she spoke more than the words themselves should be. Because silence is also a feature of this whole proposal, a silence that should actually become something that we who are in an imperative position to obey. Of course, here and just as I have stated that the proposaler's wish in this case is there Mr. Reiner on behalf of the promoter is that probably everyone does so, so that that list of non-species advocates increases and then that our statistics that sometimes need to be really and an indicator of activity falls, and will again appear that someone will call us, you or anyone else, that we are an opposition that is silent, which is inactive, which does not suggest. And it was a strong, powerful message that you sent, and just as the promoter himself needs to understand how embarrassing that silence can be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72667	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72668	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Panenić, you have described the situation well in your replica. As an economist, I'm sure you know what the word "hedge fund" means. Thus, as for the statistics you mentioned, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will act as a cutting of the hedges, i.e. those who scrape out of statistics will be cut down, and those who are somewhere at the bottom will get the opportunity to point out more. So, equating people who work hard, who read the laws, who debate, work on committees and clubs both here and elsewhere with those who unfortunately brought themselves into voting machinery. On the other hand, you said silence, yes. In preparation for this debate, I came up with one thesis of the Italian Sicilian mafia Nostra Gente and Cosa Nostra, which has two words of Omerta and Vendetta. Well, that reminds me of this situation, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Vendetta is there as a revenge that the ruling majority will take revenge on us for our work, for our demonstration of speech and for everything else that brings us here. And Omerta is this silence, the silence they want to wrap us in with all these jokes, and that's the comparison that came to mind amongst the first ones. Thank you for reminding me of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72669	Thank you for reminding me of my colleague, Sincic. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72670	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sincic, I am sorry that you did not have the opportunity to use the time provided for your exposure for a quality discussion. I'm sorry that you and I have actually been disabled as parliamentary representatives you debate and I participate through replicas in a constructive debate. And most of all, I'm sorry that he just chaired all of this made it impossible for us with his behavior, because he was trying at the same time to play both the MPs and the chairman and the promoter. And to make things even worse has the cheeks to even say that we absolutely understand nothing when we all know that it's actually true that the only person who understands absolutely nothing in this assembly is Mr. Reiner, or Proposer, chairman and representative. So, Mr. Reiner today tried to speak from his chair chair as a representative sitting in the chair, to be a motionary sitting in the chair chair and to be chaired by the chair. I'm sorry we all had to testify tonight. I hope Mr. Reiner learns something tonight and will never behave like this again in his life, especially if he thinks of telling any of the MPs that he absolutely understands anything about the situation when he's the only one who's lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72671	I thank my colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric for this replica. I would ask you not to use words that in any way disdain any parliamentary representative. We have Mr. Sincic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72672	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, here's exactly what I wanted to add to my debate. I wanted to mention, among other things, one of our proposals, a very good proposal that has been going on for about half a year or more. It is about the establishment of a new parliamentary body of the Committee on the Future to address new trends in medicine, technology, agriculture, climate change and others that would include all parliamentary parties and would raise awareness and expand the knowledge of representatives in the Croatian Parliament about all the processes that are happening in the world, which I have noticed is relatively low. Unfortunately, that committee was not accepted for what I expected, which makes me sad. I didn't even ask it to be one of 30 main boards. It could've been the second-row board. We know we have the main working bodies, other working bodies, other working bodies. However, even this could not go through with these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. As far as these allegations are concerned, the MPs are now going to focus on individual debates instead of replicas, so I would disagree. This could happen if MPs who are currently having a little discussion were to activate, taking their right, or consume it for individual debates. Whether these amendments to the Rules of Procedure will encourage 50 of the most inactive people to appear individually will not. They're just going to do the activity that exists at let's say a quarter or 20% of the most active representatives, that activity will sort of channel to individual debates, and that's that. The most active will remain the most active, but less, and the inactive will remain about where they were. And now there's going to be an excuse, because they're going to say I couldn't even speak much, I only had three replicas. I used one, that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72673	I thank my esteemed colleague Sincic for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72674	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's been injured. 238. Rules of Procedure. I would ask you not to remind me to demean and insult me if I used the same words that Mr. Rainer sent me, and since he couldn't warn himself at the time, then it would be good for you to warn him now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72675	Comrade Ninčević, while I am chairing this House, I will warn not only of you, but of any representative and representative if they do not stick to the Rules of Procedure and if, in any way, they demean any parliamentary representative or representative. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. You have a business opportunity to submit a written request for an opinion following a breach of the Rules of Procedure to the relevant Committee on the Constitution from which you will receive an answer. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72676	Thank you very much. Comrade Sinčić, you have well noticed that HDZ wants a debate in the Croatian Parliament I would say euthanize and reduce the replicas to one minute. You noticed yourself that some MPs who have I would say certain problems at the speed of speech, thus having a lot of trouble because not in one minute enough to say a lot of things. So it's obvious that this is where the form is being slaved, that it's trying to produce a large number of laws without some substantial changes in society. And that's what we see from the praise of the President of the Parliament. Its main arguments are how much more the Parliament has passed in this term. And it's obviously an intensities to shorten the time of the debate to fabricate laws that de facto society won't be too helpful. And that's where you've noticed, it's not clear to me, I don't really understand what that half-minute savings means now, they've taken off three lines, they've taken off from two minutes to one minute, at the end instead of doing all week, we've been sitting all week, they've been cutting even these three days, so that even more in the Assembly, they've passed the law so that statistics can be praised probably by the President of the Parliament. So all this together doesn't make any too much sense to anyone other than apparently proposing to HDZ and Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72677	I thank my colleague Maras. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72678	Thank you, colleague Maras. Another problem, as regards the reduced number of replicas per topic, the reduced minutes for replication, is the situation that we approach all topics equally. We have a theme like this after this on the Peace Fund, which probably doesn't have much reported because people knew it was gonna be late and it doesn't make sense to stay so much in the rule. So, for that one topic or some kind of contract with Kazakhstan, you have three replicas of what might take an hour if so. And on a budget that lasts 15 hours, you're also entitled to three replicas. So there's no difference between the importance of the subject and what's worse, the replica allows you to intervene at any point in the debate, in the first, second, third, seventh hour of the debate, like this, when you have a limited number of replicas or at least three, if at least five were put in, that would be to say for an active group of MPs, maybe an acceptable average, above average, you should see. So you can't intervene when you want to complete the debate, but you have to save, you're actually on austerity measures and you can't enrich the debate because someone bureaucratic said there's going to be three. What did he throw the dice at, and it turned out to be number three? So what's not five? We have not seen mathematics nor is it in line with this law of statistics that would deny that three is an optimal number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72679	I thank my colleague Sincic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72680	Dear colleague Sincic, what I would like to point out, and you have warned during your debate that we have been practically here the whole time without the promoter, that the Rules of Procedure has been violated. And to make things worse means Vice-President Miljan Brkic confirmed by his arrival that we were right. And what's worse, you know what's been going on all this time? I've given several violations to the Rules of Procedure, although I have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. It was such a confusion that the chairman or I don't know what he was in, that he allowed me, on several occasions, to hurt the Rules of Procedure even though I had no right to do it in breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I forgot that I had no right, and now I remember, so, man, he was so executed that he allowed me on several occasions a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I was denied the right because I didn't announce that I was going to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, and I didn't complain. And nobody warned me, nobody warned me, and it's three o'clock, and here I am, four o'clock, and I forgot that I had no right to do that, and no one even chaired me and no one warned me about it. There was so much confusion here in the Croatian Parliament, they made us discuss the Rules of Procedure at four o'clock when no one was watching, when they weren't looking at the Croatian public, so here's what was happening. It happened that the chairman of the presidency, at the same time, was proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72681	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72682	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Grmoy, you have well noted as I have already said today somewhat ironically on the subject of change and the amendments to the Rules of Procedure have seen several situations which should either be defined and described in the Rules of Procedure at all or change the current description of the situation that has been happening. It's interesting that we have and testify to some situations when I say I would allow some things that are not allowed in other situations. However, it is clear that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are not thorough, that they are not the result of pre-determined analysis, but that they are there for some purpose and they all know from the opposition what to aim for. I would also like to say that the committees are being demoted even more, or the committee presidents. We will now have to pray, in fact, for the board members who are the ruling majority to come to the board, and this is how it is difficult to catch them all from at least my experience and vote that a thematic session can be held on a point. That's completely unnecessary. In fact, the direct name of Mr. Bačić is therefore under his control by all parliamentary committees, or all of their work. I remember one of the first sessions of my Committee was an invitation to Mr. Cvitan's attorney-general to come and explain that part of his 2015 report on gender equality. There was simply no quorum. It was a regular session. And imagine what's only at the thematic sessions when 10 or 15% is a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72683	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72684	Dear colleague Sincic, you have rightly said that the role of the Parliament is not some automated body whose aim is only to count the vote. the votes, which is why we will end the individual vote. The individual vote has its own purpose, its purpose. Its goal is to give each representative an individual opinion and to keep his opinion publicly in front of the whole public. So we know that there are historical moments like this. when the government survived, when counterpart Saucha moved from SDP to HDZ when he voted against the recall of Minister Maric. His words against the denunciations he had spoken were later shown on all televisions, etc. I also remember when Esich, Hasanbegovic, was the same when they voted against impeachment or, say, when counterpart Glasovic was due to vote, to flee when he was called. So it's not the role of individual vote counting votes. It's an automated process, it's not controversial. What's important is that the desire of citizens to see names as who voted in one public way, is an unequivocal way where TV cameras, where TV transmission, where man says yes, are against. That's what the role of the individual vote is. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure abolish the individual vote and in fact enables the individual who makes it so to say a decision that could be made in doubt enables him to drown more easily in mass, because suddenly he is one of them 76, and he is no longer the one who by name and last name, with his body and his voice, with his image, painting and work Speak for or against. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72685	I thank my colleague Pernar. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72686	Thank you, Chairman. I'll look back on two things you mentioned. I'll start at the end, so the individual vote I've already explained has no arguments to do, especially with these explanations. We rarely use it. There were even cases that after the request was withdrawn because there was simply no need for it, but you should have it as a tool. Why? Because one of his essential elements is just a picture. So when we have here after the microphone and the picture and the tone of someone getting up, they clearly say what they think and how they vote it's the sky and the earth versus some abstract typing that's only going to be seen in the form of some kind of statistical data afterwards. It's a huge difference and media. So I speak communicatively, and that's what's here trying to get rid of that individual responsibility, individually showing that an individual drowns in mass. The other thing you mentioned was automation. Yes, what is the ideal parliament for Mr Plenkovic? Is this the European Parliament that works, I personally am not sure that this is about Parliament? The ideal parliament is a parliament in which the MP has no legislative initiative, but everything is proposed by the government. It is a parliament in which the MP has little time to say something where he cannot replicate anything, where nothing is transmitted to the public or very little, where it is done at a time when no one is watching. So, some kind of black box where they put the law, and on the other side, the seal goes. It's an ideal parliament. It's a shame. It's a replacement thesis. So it is not the Parliament that should be subdued to the government, but the government should be subject to the parliament and against such degradation and MPs and Parliament's own institutions I will fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72687	Thank you very much, colleague Sincic, for your reply to the replica. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I called for the replica of Representative Sincic to explain to him article 9 of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and he says at this point, that in the event of the president's resignation, the vice president of the House of Representatives who had most of the first day of the session. I'm looking for an explanation of what that means. So, I believe that this proposed amendment does not define which Vice-President of the Parliament replaces President-in-Office of the Parliament in the event of resignation because we now have the case of the current vice-president of the Croatian Parliament in the order of the parliamentary majority on the first day of the first session of the Parliament were Mr Reiner, Mr Brkic, Mr Radin and Mr Petrov. So it is certainly not certain that four of them will agree on who is changing the President of the Parliament in the event of resignation, either in case or in any other case. So, we have proposed an amendment to define that if such a situation occurs that it is changed by the Vice-President of the Parliament who enjoys the greatest support of MPs, which would be determined by the signatures of a relative majority or absolute, anyway. And then of those five who are vice-presidents of the Parliament, the majority party or majority party will agree to whom they will give their support that at that moment our duties as president, chairman of the Parliament and that is that. So, just what you asked. This is clear, but it doesn't solve the problem. So one of them is four, and you're not going to figure out what four of them are. Because if they could have agreed, there would have been no impeachment from the President of the Parliament, and that's why we suggested that it be defined as the one who enjoys the greatest support. So we respect most relatively, absolutely still to assume that technical function.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72689	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Answer, dear colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72690	Thank you, Chairman. Here is my colleague Bauk, the controversial sentence, which reads: "This proposal prescribes the replacement of the President of the Croatian Parliament in the event of termination of office, and is proposed to be replaced by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of MPs who had most of the first day, the first session of the Croatian Parliament. This is an attempt to resolve the conflict situation when Mr. Petrov was in his last days, when he was also in resignation and that situation when Mr. Reiner hurried to take his position. It is amazing that such a situation has not been well-formed before. However, this formulation I see here repeats my question again, which means the first day of the first session of the Croatian Parliament. I'll be back on call eight again. You were there, remember? Mr. Podolnjak has been proposed by you for Vice President of the Parliament. I'm not going in now why it was like that. What would happen if Mr. Podolnjak had been unanimously elected in that situation and the elected vice presidents had been elected that day in a similar quota. Which would mean, exactly, in that formulation, from the ranks of MPs who had the majority if they had not yet known who had won, which would be the majority. It's just that the Parliament's been established. The majority who will vote some kind of government after the budget has not yet been defined. Therefore, it has not yet been defined. Therefore, I do not see in this, and your amendment will probably not be accepted to address such a situation. Here, I guess six times I'm calling on the proposer to explain at least a part of this conflict situation because this blocking part of the policy on two pillars on the left and right, so on. Slowly lowers, collapses such situations will become more and more frequent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72691	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Sincic. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72692	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sincic, I absolutely agree with you when you said that the proposal of this Rules of Procedure is actually a kind of silence of parliamentary representatives to talk about the problem currently present in Croatia. We all know what the problem is, we all know that we lose more than 150 of the younger people who go to Western Europe a day. However, I would refer to your one statement in the presentation, which I also find unacceptable because, under the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, certain reports by some bodies and legal persons, which are otherwise submitted to the Committee for Discussion, are exclusively on the working bodies. This will discuss the proposal of FINA, the HINA proposal, the Ethics Committee, the Electronic Media Council, the HRT Supervisory Board. We will no longer discuss here in Parliament, we will not be able to generalise their problems. It'll be discussed what you said well in some rooms. It's kind of a cover-up of truth, and I'm mostly afraid it's a deliberate cover-up from that party, and we all know that this party is bound to any former affairs of Fimi Medie, HAC, Hypa, Mountain, Spice, trucks. So a series of these affairs, and instead of cleaning up, let's be transparent, to discuss all possible reports in the Parliament. According to this Rules of Procedure, these reports are simply being removed from the debate, they will be closed to the public, more difficult to make available, which in fact leads to doubts that this Rules of Procedure will aim towards the non-transparent work of certain real persons and bodies who are otherwise discussing their reports in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72693	I thank my colleague Pranic. Answer. A colleague, Son. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72694	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. That's right, buddy, that's what I emphasized in my debate. So here are some exceptions. State Attorney's Office, the Committee of Decisions on Conflict of Interest, the CNB, the Advocates, the head director of HRT, they should as well come here, as so far, read their report, they are mostly so polite to sit down and answer the questions and afterwards we vote. Of course, those reports were on board before. However, the important reports you have just listed, HACOM, HANFA and others, will be discussed in the I don't know, Quaternik, in Starčević, Jelačić. She may be called only a few hours before or the day before. So they're going to switch from debates from a lot of people to few people, from public space to some closed space, the level of expertise is going to be significantly reduced, and they're just going to send that document here to vote on it. And it will be just one of the 30 points of that day and it will go unnoticed, let's say, here's the last case that happened, if I remember this small hour well, about 250m euros was drawn from the Croatian Telecom, half of it went to Montenegro to take over the telecom there, half went to Germany to buy Detusche Telecom bonds, instead of that money being paid to shareholders in the Republic of Croatia. No, I don't. This money has gone out on all sides, and there is no dividend here and we should, let's say, discuss here or the Croatian Post Office, whatever you want, in the HACOM report. We're not going to have the right, and that means we're going to get it, and we're not going to be able to discuss it, but somewhere out there, who knows when, who knows where, who knows who's going to do it? And it's a simple cover-up and it's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72695	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72696	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it's a little unusual this time of year to present a very important topic. For this topic of change, I prepared my rules of procedure on behalf of the club for a long time, because we had several discussions on the Committee on the Constitution. We had a consultation with an interested public. On several occasions, I have made comments, suggestions in principle on the draft Rules of Procedure, during consultations with the interested public and you have seen that in this report carried out during 15 days, a good part of the principled remarks and remarks on the draft rules of procedure came just from the Club of Representatives of the Most. I can also say that we also tabled 15 amendments to the proposal addressed by the Parliament at the plenary session today. I am only saying this to indicate how seriously we have come to change the Rules of Procedure and we consider it one of the most important acts we can discuss here in the Parliament. But unfortunately, not under the circumstances that we do tonight or this morning, under circumstances that are absolutely inappropriate. After a long and high-quality debate that has been a day-long discussion on an extremely important Law amending the law on renting apartments and when it was due to interrupt the session of the Parliament, we continue the debate with the amendments of the Rules of Procedure in this late hour. It happened to me earlier that on behalf of the club I had waited a long time to discuss some important constitutional-legal issues. I remember the debate on the election of the Supreme Court president on some counsel reports, on some other topics that were constitutionally legal about the election of constitutional judges, and it was all at 9:00, at 11 p.m., but I didn't expect this debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure to be so late. Absolutely inappropriate, this shouldn't have happened, but all of us who are here from the opposition who have been preparing serious exposure and we have serious questions, we can't give up exposure, even at this point, even if there are maybe 200 viewers watching this debate. He told his colleague Maras that this was a historic session at length and that it would be recorded as such. But believe me, I don't feel comfortable being part of this historic session that we are discussing in this way the subject we should discuss under normal circumstances, the entire Parliament, not in one reading, but in a regular procedure as would be normal. In preparation for this topic, I read many Rules of Procedures of Democratic Parliaments, many documents of international bodies dealing with business provisions, read resolutions of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, documents of the Venice Commission dealing in particular with issues of the rights and responsibilities of the opposition. Let me just remind you of one sentence found in the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly's report on the procedural guidelines on the rights and responsibilities of the opposition in a democratic parliament where each country stands has a government, only democracy has an opposition. And it is right that everything that is happening with this Rules of Procedure and its changes from the very beginning is at every turn the violation of the rights and responsibilities of the opposition. And today we understand that the parliamentary majority is ready at all costs, even if by a mere majority of 77 or 78 votes to vote these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, to vote these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, at all costs. And I said earlier in a replica that what has been happening this week, since Tuesday since the proposal was set, the inclusion of the urgent procedure in the agenda of this late night, the morning debate that is likely to continue and when the otherwise regular session of the parliament begins and the scheduled vote today on this final proposal indicates that the parliamentary majority will not choose the means to bring this Rules of Procedure. Let me say right now that we cannot prevent this Rules of Procedure from bringing the majority of the votes here but we will do everything to convince the Constitutional Court that the Rules of Procedure cannot survive and that it is contrary to the constitutional principles of the democratic multilateral system. I could cite many of the provisions of Resolution 1601 of the 2008 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which deals with the very procedural guidelines of the opposition's rights and responsibilities in a democratic parliament, it is called, that is its name. I would advise my HDZ colleagues to read that resolution carefully. It will be the basis of our request to the Constitutional Court to abolish certain parts of this final draft of the Rules of Procedure on which you insist in the parliamentary majority. It's an interesting example I'm going to tell you, in point 4, that resolution is the next one. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the rights of members of parliament and, in particular, the minority should not be changed after each parliamentary election in order to adapt to the results of the elections. Therefore, the parliamentary majority should not abuse its right of the majority to amend the business provisions, especially against the parliamentary minority or opposition, in order to take advantage of that position and to reduce the rights of the opposition. That is exactly what is happening with this Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure. And therefore, in one of our amendments, we foresee that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are now proposed cannot take effect 8 days after publication but for the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament. It's not for this convulsion. Furthermore, let me remind you of some other important provisions of Parliament's resolution as a kind of education for the parliamentary majority. And the following is said, the democratic quality of parliament is measured by means of available opposition or parliamentary minority to achieve their tasks. The political opposition in and outside parliament is an important component of a well-functioning democracy. One of the main functions of the opposition is to offer a reliable political alternative to most in power by ensuring public consideration and other political options. By overseeing and criticising the government's work, constantly assessing government action and making the government responsible, the opposition acts to ensure transparency of public decisions and efficiency in public affairs by guaranteeing defence of public interest and preventing abuse and dysfunction. That is what the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe says. and that is what we as opposition are obliged to do in the Croatian Parliament but the fact is that the parliamentary majority is denying us exactly that means. Just a few examples, you can ask counsel questions every few months. In democratic parliaments, it is once a week, imagine, once a week, the facing leaders of the opposition who are questioning the Prime Minister, once a week as an instrument of opposition. As an instrument of opposition, public debates are on committees, but not as provided for only by the majority decision of a working body but by the parliamentary assembly resolution, it says when 1/4 members of a working body so means the right of opposition and so is regulated in a series of Rules of Procedures of Democratic Parliaments. And we have submitted that amendment and we expect you to accept it, look at the resolution of the parliamentary assembly. Equally, the interpretation of government or individual minister's work, they should come on the agenda, they should be discussed, and we unfortunately don't have a chance today because they will stand for a year on the agenda and will never be discussed. Investigative committees, you have in your resolution a request that they should be established if it is required by 1/4 MPs in parliament. So when it comes to the opposition, they must be founded because it is the investigative committees that give the opposition the opportunity to oversee the government's work. Let me remind you of a recent example when a meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament was convened, when representatives in office of supervision could ask questions from the extraordinary Commissioner for the Agrokor concert and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs Dalić, and when it was just the function of the Parliament, his working body and it was a sort of public debate or what is called outside hearings, it was this example that showed usefulness because it led to Mr Ramljak's resignation. Is this not the best example of the importance of parliamentary oversight, the control of the opposition over the work of the government, or the person appointed by the government in a specific case, an extraordinary commissioner? And not only should the resignation of an extraordinary commissioner but also the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister have resulted. That's what we're obliged to do as an opposition. Many of the proposals we have made unfortunately have not been accepted, proposals that are on the trail of documents that bind us as a democratic parliament or who want to be or who wants to show themselves. If they are other countries and I have carefully read their Rules of Procedure, they have incorporated the provisions of the Parliamentary Assembly resolution and we are a member of the Council of Europe and we are involved in the work of this parliamentary assembly and that document that binds us and therefore I say, read it, Resolution No. 1601 from 2008. It speaks of what rights and responsibilities the opposition should also have in this Croatian Assembly. And on the trail of that resolution, we have proposed an amendment. Tomorrow there will be an opportunity in the Croatian Parliament to talk about the amendments, so I will not talk about them in particular. Of course, at almost 5:00 a.m., we just can't concentrate on everything that we could do under normal circumstances. But once again I appeal to the parliamentary majority, don't choose to re-vote the opposition with the majority, because you will make a cardinal mistake and we believe that this cannot go to the constitutional-judicial assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72697	I'd like to thank my fellow Downworlder for this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72698	Now we've got a line of replicas on our fellow Downworlder. The first is the reputed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72699	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My replica was to a respected colleague who was very clear and comprehensible in his discussion about some of the customs which in other parliaments and customs were the relationship between the rulings and the opposition, so, among other things, he spoke of what the usual things were. But what needs to be said clearly is the following. This Rules of Procedure does not change because we have concluded that we have a number of things in our rules of procedure that we need to change. This Rules of Procedure is changing, as is already the Proposer, which we do not know again which situation Mr Reiner is in, so in this threefold situation and the chairperson, as well as the representative, so it may again be possible to clarify at some point, when the Proposer has told us several times that this is done because things were happening in the Assembly that were not usual before. That they're looking for breaks at some time they're not in, that there's too many replicas. What's he saying? The Rules of Procedure do not change, because we have concluded that our Rules of Procedure should be amended, outdated, there are provisions, but because we have parliamentary representatives with whom we are not satisfied. We're not happy with how these parliamentary deputies are arguing, we're not happy because they're looking for too many breaks, we're not happy because they're looking for too many replicas. According to the ruling, they are not preparing enough so they are not well prepared and that is why we are changing the Rules of Procedure. But for sure, colleague Podolnjak doesn't need to be the reason why we're changing the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72700	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72701	I have to say, first of all, that we're back to that situation that was disputed a few hours ago. I don't know why my colleague, Vice President Brkic, is not chairing the session, but we're going back to what we said was a problem and I don't know why you're chairing again when you yourself accept the fact that it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72702	No, I first... You need to answer to your colleague Mra-Taritash. That's one thing. ... You can't argue with me, and thirdly, I didn't accept your position at all. [[Intruder Dolnjak: not understood.]] And it's not exactly what you claimed. From the beginning to the end, I was consistent. ... [[The MPs speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72703	It is not appropriate that you are in a double position in the chair and we all see it in opposition and therefore you simply do not accept that fact and now you are polymising with me in a way that brings you precisely into this questionable situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72704	It doesn't bring me at all, but please respond to Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72705	I'm saddened by, esteemed colleague, which now that I open a page of a daily list, I see that it says we're participating in a circus in the Parliament. I'm deeply sad that it says that because what I wanted to say is an extremely important topic. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Is it my fault that this is happening deep into the night, in the morning under completely inappropriate circumstances? And what never has the Parliament, and there are those who have been here much longer than I have, remember that the Parliament has not sat down on such an important issue at this time. We don't even know if it's night or morning because we've been trapped here for more than 20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72706	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. ... You can't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There you go. ... No, no, no. [[You can't hear it.]] Here, I didn't see it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72707	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He's been injured. 233. We have come to the same situation that the same person and the promoter and chair of what the Rules of Procedure do not allow under this article, and since counterpart Brkic is at the very least the vice-president of the Parliament, he should return to the state of affairs already if we are changing the Rules of Procedure and if you object to the Rules of Procedure, you are currently respecting the Rules of Procedure. At least that, here's to going back to those squabbles, rather than continuing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure this debate on a very important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72708	So we're not going back to any arguments. Things are very clear. The Rules of Procedure are clear about this, and yet I say, if you have any objections, please write to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to express them. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72709	Thank you very much. Here, article 233 was injured. I ask you not to insist further on raising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure when there is already a possibility because a colleague of Brkic is here. So get replaced and there won't be any problems, but now you simply insist that we continue to raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and for that there is absolutely no need anymore because counterpart Brkic is here and can continue to lead the session and everything will be fine. So I'm asking you to switch. Here's what I'm asking you to do. If you can hear that, we can get out of this breach zone of the Rules of Procedure and one nervousness that is unnecessary for this early morning. And on the other hand, I think it'll be clear to you in HDZ that no more than once this kind of assembly violence will ever occur to you that you're working because from now on, we're going to have a nightly session like this, and we're going to discuss again in the morning the most normal thing we could discuss in one way or the other. So instead of doing it last night, we could have discussed it normally in the morning, and this is how you're going to discuss it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72710	Thank you. Your time's up, pal. It's not unclear, and the situation like it wasn't unclear before, it's not unclear right now. If I wanted to speak as a promoter, of course I couldn't do it from this place. I couldn't do it from this place, but I can chair. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72711	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, for me, it's a questionable situation for a slightly different reason than for my colleagues. In fact, whenever a law is discussed, it is common for MPs to speak to the promoter and try to polemize with him and discuss with him. And then you say when they're going to argue with you, to pollemize, so, like you can't argue with me, I'm the chairman. So I ask you to simply direct me to this formal-legal side means whether we can address and try to discuss with you on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72712	Of course you can, and when I sit there and be the promoter, I'll answer you or I won't answer you. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72713	Thank you, Mr. Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72714	But here's to happy, to make my colleague Maras happy, we'll switch now, and then he'll be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72715	We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72716	Thank you, Vice President. It is unfortunate that after the preparations you had for this topic, after so many amendments that Club Mosta referred most to these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that no one can even hear this debate because it happens at 5 and 40, it means almost 6 in the morning, and that all the clarity, citizens and the media cannot, unfortunately, hear the remarks that we have on these amendments to the Rules of Procedure which go towards choking the freedom of speech of parliamentary representatives, which is why we were elected by our fellow citizens and given so many preferred votes. So one of the key instruments that we have is a pay phone, or this one here, a microphone so that we can talk about the problems that cause our citizens, to open up topics. But here we are now being taken away from it. Often these days it could be heard from the prime minister that the opposition lost 5-0. Why is the opposition even going with the recalls? It goes because it's the only instrument that we can open up certain topics with, and that we know that we can bring in a prime minister or a minister here and talk about these problems. We don't have any other instruments. No impelations, no other instruments. The only thing we had was that we had the freedom to talk about certain topics or through breaks, or through replicas, but as who and now it's being denied. A colleague, Sincic, spoke about how much the time that parliamentary deputies now have and how much they will have after these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And you did that even though we begged you at midnight and then you wrote now that it was a circus. It's not a circus. This is a rebellion against the way you treat yourself. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] According to democracy and the rights of parliamentary deputies. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Grmoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72717	The answer of the esteemed colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72718	Thank you. I told a respected colleague, the opposition can't ask questions except every few months. So, practically irregular. There are no investigative committees because they were actually shut down when they were relevant. There will be no board meeting, thematic sessions or at the request of the opposition public hearings or clear hearings. This last committee, called on by Agrokor and an extraordinary commissioner, was convened by the chairman of the parliamentary majority committee. But tomorrow, when these amendments are made, any session of the board will not be able to be convened unless most members do so, and most of them always have a parliamentary majority. So, all these instruments of the opposition disappear and you're right when you say that the only one who stays, and there is, of course, no interpretation of the only one who remains is the vote of confidence between the government and the Prime Minister or the individual minister. So what we consider a nuclear option is one that should be used exceptionally. But when the opposition disappears any other mechanism, a control tool, a question of government or a minister's work, then only that last ultimate one remains. You know why? Because it is prescribed by the Constitution, because it sets precise deadlines, because it must be respected, it cannot be ignored and cannot be changed because the parliamentary majority has no vote for it. And because of this, with the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, I believe that there will actually be a lot more motions to call off the issue because it will be the only way that the opposition will be able to use this instrument to question the work of the Government or the work of ministers. In fact, it will cause a conflict of what the ruling parliamentary majority wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72719	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Podolnjak when you said on several occasions that this proposal for a Rules of Procedure is nothing more than the silence of all MPs who point to the problems that are happening in Croatia. It is the policy of the Rules of Procedure to introduce order as we are told by the promoters in the Assembly, although they place such an important point at midnight and knowingly and deliberately want to make this a play by thinking that we are going to give in or whatever. I don't think we're going to give it up because the people chose us to make better Croatia. I have indeed enjoyed your presentation and comparison with the Western European countries in terms of the Rules of Procedure in their parliaments. I believe that this is more like a Balkan Rules of Procedure under the system of "who is stronger than this tabachi" no matter how much we are an opposition, obviously no one wants to respect us from the majority even though the majority is not significant in this House. It refers to a few parliamentary deputies who may have been purchased by any methods or form of employment that I have presented in my debate about coalition partners, so it is not a stable majority that could not respect this minority. So I believe that you yourself have said on several occasions that this proposal for a Rules of Procedure is nothing more than a way to silence the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72721	I thank you for this replica. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72722	Thank you. It should also point to some of the other provisions of the proposed Rules of Procedure of a dangerous innovation, in my opinion, to the constitutional aspects that, if they are not adopted, we will have to test their constitutionality. Very unfortunate provisions, for example, what is first proposed in the history of the Croatian Parliament, that a series of reports of state bodies or other legal entities should no longer be discussed at the plenary session, but only on the working bodies. And so far, it's been debated on working bodies, but the fact that many club representatives don't have members in all working bodies, it may have two major clubs, but all other clubs have members on individual committees, but in many it doesn't mean that many MPs could no longer discuss at the plenary session about some important report of FINA, HINA, the Council for Electronic Media or some others such as the Supervisory Board of HRT, the Committee on Ethics, Science and not to list many reports. So when we talk about what the promoter said that the representatives are equal, so the representatives of the big parties will participate in every debate, including on the board, but representatives in smaller parties, smaller clubs or independent representatives could no longer participate in the debate. This means that the equality of MPs is lost, and it was said not to be lost. You can't even be on all the boards that are often at the same time. So, we'll certainly consider that... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72723	I thank my fellow Downworlder for his reply. The next replica is a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Podolnjak, how do you think they're going to do the working bodies they want now, committees that want to open important topics? When I remember just the last two years how many committees I have held have opened thematic sessions on the subject of the need to adopt a National Plan to fight malignancies, on the subject of abuse on the Internet, on the need to address the issue of expensive medicines in Croatia and the Fund for Innovative Therapy, on the subject of the situation of nurses and nurses, on the subject of the doctor's position and departure of doctors. How will someone like me now be able to call a thematic session on the topic of health care in areas of particular interest where it is difficult to reach, rural areas, islands and mountainous areas? In what way will I have to look and get most of those who are actually ruling? Is it actually possible to organise a thematic session on what is important, or will ruling you completely disabling what the working bodies are there for except as a parent body they need to comply with the laws? This is an extremely serious matter and it is saddened that this is how the status of an independent working body that needs to be opened up by intriguing topics that are not only those of the laws that come into the parliamentary procedure. Do you think that such a way is democratic or is your opinion what the opinion today is of all of us here from the opposition that it is finally disabling us who have the electoral legitimacy to We are opening topics of national interest to this country. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72725	I thank my colleagues Strenja-Linić. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72726	Dear fellow Members, on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Reiner assured you of this proposal for this Rules of Procedure to strengthen the role and work of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. But here, in a particular case, this work, for example, in calling thematic sessions or public hearings, will be able to take place or take place only with the conclusion of most members of that body, which means that it is actually in the hands of the parliamentary majority only if it decides so. If you are, for example, a representative in the German Parliament there is the right of a parliamentary minority to mean 1/4 members of the board, and that is, of course, always the minority has the right to demand and, therefore, that ultimately, it is necessary to hold a public debate on the issue that the parliamentary minority is seeking. It even has the right to insist on persons who will call for this public hearing or public hearings and it has the right to seek and implement 1/4 therefore a parliamentary minority, and based on that resolution that I mentioned in my presentation, Resolution No 1601. If we wanted to reflect what the resolution states and what is in contemporary parliaments, then that right would be 1/4 of the opposition's MPs, you could use this right in any parliamentary body, therefore, of the board of the Croatian Parliament, but not most members, as the parliamentary majority suggests. But that's a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72727	I would like to thank my colleague Dolnjak for his reply. I would like to thank my colleague Dolnjak for his reply. The word was requested by a esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72728	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on the rights of teachers and professors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72729	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72730	I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club on the heroes of parliamentaryism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72731	Thank you. Dear colleague Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72732	I am looking for a break on the theme of the Gospel according to Matthew chapter 4 and beyond starting with Jesus ’ trial in the wilderness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72733	Thank you. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72734	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the problem of building Lng Terminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72735	Thank you. The stations will be approved after exposure or we have more replicas. Dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72736	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Podolnjak, my question was actually the same as that of my colleague Ines on the thematic sessions because I actually find it really inadmissible that a thematic session cannot be called without majority approval, because that actually means when we have some important topic or topic that we want to discuss, we cannot call it a thematic session on this subject without the approval of the majority. And if most of us do not find it very convenient that this issue is being discussed then and we do not really have the opportunity to discuss it in this way and I think it is simply wrong because it is our duty to discuss it especially when calling on thematic sessions when we talk about very important topics that threaten the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72737	I thank my colleague Ninčević. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72738	Dear colleagues, I am convinced and I can defend it publicly and say here that if these changes are accepted all the tools that the opposition has will actually have at their disposal, all the remaining tools will be eliminated. So there's only one left that I can't take away from you, and that's the one that's defined in the Constitution. In fact, everything else from the Rules of Procedure or from certain laws as the Law on the Investigation Commissions remains at the mercy of the parliamentary majority. But this is not in line with what the modern rules of the democratic parliamentary system require. We step down drastically in this regard and this process actually ends or thinks about completing these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And that should be clearly warned. And that's why I'm saying this isn't a circus. This is an appeal in these night or morning hours that we have to stop it. If we are not to prevent the vote in the Croatian Parliament because we do not have enough votes, we can only rely on the Constitutional Court to act on the basis of constitutional values of the democratic multilateral system, because everything represented by this Rules of Procedure in the form of adoption, according to the procedure that it is adopted and is absolutely opposed to the democratic parliamentary system. Because we're actually going to lose any tool that our colleagues and colleagues have in other democratic systems. After studying their rules of procedure, I am absolutely certain of that. And that's what makes me sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72739	I thank my fellow Downworlder for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72740	Mr. Podolnjak, I am pleased that you have pointed out the same thing as your colleague Sincic, i.e. that he will no longer be able to discuss himself in the Committee on Reports Important, but only on committees that are not actually transmitted live, is much less present and what you have stated is interesting the same thought, do not all club representatives of their representatives on all committees. Well, it's actually a suma suma sumarum and it's one of the faults of the new Rules of Procedure, it's supposed to be fought by hands and feet, by all means available, and we can't give up, we can't give up. Sometimes we seem to be on the verge of strength, on the edge of the nerves, but we know that we are fighting for the right thing, which is freedom of speech, and where else is in the Croatian Parliament. And I think that actually this whole government proposal is aimed exclusively at guillotineing the political opposition, so after those protected tenants now we've come and we're up, our goal is to shut our mouths, our goal is to keep us from talking, their goal is to limit our time, and in the wrong assumption that it will succeed in preventing our political action. But no, we're going to fight even harder and I think these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are desperate measures and it's actually about the Sisif business because tomorrow the government will find itself in the same problem not because of the bad Rules of Procedure, not because we can talk a lot, but because that power does nothing because people are living worse because it's getting more and more obvious to everyone. That's what I'm going to say. So let's say the sum of what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72741	Thank you, colleague Pernar. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72742	Let me see my colleague Pernar again. Every country has a government, but only democracy has an opposition. I didn't make up that sentence, but the longer I'm here, the longer I'm in the role of the opposition representative, the clearer that sentence is in her being and her intention. Because the parliamentary majority has its own government, the government is implementing foreign, domestic policy. The parliamentary majority actually comes down to vote on government proposals, not questioning them, not offering its amendments, not speaking critically, it is the opposition, it is the one who is questioning, monitoring, critically looking at and asking ministers and other representatives of the government to show up on all important proposals. And we often miss that, today we have had the opportunity to see that during the whole day's debate on an important legislative proposal there is no competent minister who is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. During the entire day, one of the most important discussions in recent months, concerning the fate of thousands of citizens, was similar in the debate on the law on the municipal economy. That we don't have a vice-president and a competent minister who doesn't come to the Croatian Parliament at any time to defend the policy he has drawn out by a bill that he proposes, and that's not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72743	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72744	Thank you very much, dear colleague. As much as you analyze and warn about certain things that HDZ is consciously trying to push aside, we see that even though the promoter now listens to what you're saying, there is no reaction. After these hundreds of objections, it would be normal for the Proposer on behalf of the Committee, Mr. Rainer at least to be seen, says this is okay, this is wrong. He sits there, imagines, listens, talks to Mr. Babic. And in fact, he's not experiencing it, and he doesn't want to refer to these important things that we're saying here. I hope, at least he realizes that nothing will ever accomplish anything by force again. What we have done today, even though it may seem illogical to someone at first or perhaps not quite usual in Croatian parliamentary democracy, I think it will remain remembered as one of the important events in our Parliament. For example, in the United States Congress, media and the public welcome and say that this is the way to resist what is not logical and what the ruling ones do. How many speeches were there for 10, 15, 20 hours, people stimulated each other to resist parliamentary violence. For the first time, the opposition has reacted in this way, and it is necessary to react accordingly. But you can see that most of it doesn't work at all. Mr. Reiner is still not responding to these... criticisms and I hope he will at least say something until this debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72745	I thank my colleague Maras for the replica. A colleague's answer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72746	Dear fellow Members, I have deliberately, and perhaps ten times exactly, to which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe resolution is referred all the time, which I am calling for, because I claim that this resolution obliges all democratic parliamentary systems in the Member States of the Council of Europe, and one of the Member States is the Republic of Croatia. And I know by looking at the other Rules of Procedures on the work of other parliaments I see that they have installed these provisions and therefore I want to say that what we are looking for as an opposition in the Croatian Parliament is nothing more than what was actually drawn out in that Resolution is what should be some fundamental, common denominator for the rights and responsibilities of the opposition today in the democratic parliament. So we're not asking for any less, or more than that. What there are opposition in other countries is being called upon, we believe that we are right and you are right. I expect my colleague Reiner to read that resolution and then tell me, the truth is, it says there, you're right. But I'm afraid if he read it, then he'd see that I'm right, that I'm telling the truth, that it's really there, and that the Rules of Procedure that he's proposing is not on the trail of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that it's no democratic step but a step back. And that's the problem, and that's why my colleague Reiner doesn't now say that I'm not telling the truth and that I'm falsifying the facts, because he actually knows I'm right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72747	I would like to thank my colleague Dolnjak for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72748	Thank you very much. Here's six hours past, bells ringing. The dawn's broken. What I said at 23 hours and 30 minutes when I was with a band-aid on my mouth and when I begged and called on the Proposer to withdraw this item of the agenda very serious point of the agenda. I know you guys were getting ready to get involved in this. You're an expert. This is your profession. They didn't listen, and then I announced that as far as the Bridge Club is concerned, here's the Living Wall, that we'll be here by morning or so. until the new day of work from 9.30 when we should have started this debate. Resistance is very important, and resistance is very important and shows essentially when the terror of the majority is above the minority. As far as parliamentaryism is concerned, the terror of the majority over the minority in trying to stop freedom of speech reached standards of freedom of speech, and this Rules of Procedure is just what the current majority who is silent wants. Because the Proposer Mr. Reiner in front of the Committee is not saying a word about all these remarks. So from 11 and 30, 23 and 30 and we'll welcome new hours at 9.30 and will continue to discuss this issue because our colleagues will come, they will give replicas. We have a right to use this because this is too serious. We are being abolished by this proposal of a Band-Aid of Rules of Procedure all what parliamentary representatives should have under the orders of Andrej Plenkovic who ordered Mr. Reiner, and of course Mr. Brkic. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] to do this. [[Intruder: Brkić: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72749	A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72750	As a parliamentary opposition, we only have the opportunity to speak here. So, it's the strongest... which has an MP in parliament that can speak freely and that has certain additional rights that have opposition. [[You don't understand.]] However, the Rules of Procedure that are proposed become some unreasonable restrictions that actually want to be imposed on MPs. For example, the limitation to three replicas during the debate on one point. It's really a restriction of debate. I've been on, almost all day to discuss the Law on Renting Apartments where there were more than 20 or 25 discussions and I've tried to imagine what it would look like if I had to think at the beginning of the debate when I used my three replicas as the three wildcards you have. I don't even know which one of you came up with? When are you even going to defend the logic of such a restriction before the Constitutional Court? There are discussions about some legal proposals that I will not engage in and talk about because someone else will do on behalf of the club. But where I'm in charge on behalf of the club, where the topic I know well about is that I can talk about that someone limits me to three lines that I have to make sure that I spend one on a proposer that can be included 10 and 20 times in the debate, at any point, it has the right to do so but you can't replicate it anymore. Even when he says something that's not exactly accurate, wrong, offensive, you can't replicate it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72751	I would like to thank my colleague Dolnjak for his reply. Next replica Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72752	Thank you, Chairman. Col. Podolnjak, in your discussion, you have looked very closely at all these problems that we have been facing for 6, 7 hours. Only this time, therefore, and the context, above all, of the context in which we are in the small hours of the night, an emergency procedure after a whole day's debate on a very important topic, a topic which is partly related to the ideological issue that after the decision, I would say to Plenkovic's Council the past on the five-point and greeting "For a home ready", so in this ideological Croatian public, one proposal is put in place that as far as possible from the focus of the Croatian public, and this actually shows the weight of the parliamentary violence that is being carried out here. Another very important thing that has been mentioned is that when the government proposes law, and the government proposes most of the law, at a normal time I would say, and those of the opposition are placed in small hours. So, let's say our law on bank taxation or the law of fellow Alexic, or you yourself said constitutional judges were put in about eight hours, the Supreme Court president was put in about eight hours and a series of other laws. So the Proposer has infinite possibilities for five minutes, and we only have three replicas. It's one terrible discrimination against the government's representative, the minister, and even the prime minister against us. They can hold monologues there, attack us, and we can't defend ourselves. So it's a total injustice and that's what we have to fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72753	I thank my colleague Sincic. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72754	So, fellow Pernar, when we talk about these replicas, then the fact that there is no equality of arms. So if, on the one hand, the Proposer can ask you at any point for a word to explain and further explanations regarding the bill but you no longer have the opportunity to replicate it, ask a question, indicate that he is saying something that is not true, ask for an explanation. You won't actually be able to do it anymore, you're not in the same position. Now it is, every time the applicant asks for a word for an additional explanation, you will be able to ask for a replica every time and in your two minutes look back at what the Proposer said. You are actually in the same position, but it is relevant for the opposition's MPs, thus not burdening parliamentary majority representatives. Of course, what the government's representative says is relevant to them, and they do not have to replicate them, they will usually vote the law as proposed by the government. But this is important to us in the opposition. And that's why what my colleague Reiner says, that MPs are equally formal, is not true, because this replica institution is important to the opposition's representatives. And the fact is that the opposition's representatives use it much more, but because they are obliged to question the government's policy, legislative proposals. This is not the function of the parliamentary majority, so we saw today in this debate who questioned the law on renting apartments. The opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72755	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72756	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Podolnjak, listening to your debate is actually asking me a fundamental question, will this short model proposed by the ruling majority actually lead to the improvement of the legislative solutions that this body brings together? In fact, we are aware that never one independent preparation of any parliamentary representative, and even collectively within clubs cannot predict all possible problems or possible solutions that may arise. And these iterations that we're doing here may be annoying even for those who are on the side, but sometimes it really means a lot here when a detail comes out in a context that can be discussed and what you notice that at one point the promoter and the chairman have become one body. That's to say something that needs to be noticed. That's us here who were not noticed by anyone but you. It may be irrelevant in the end, but we can see that the ruling also considered your remark, and in the end, they did, and here is the current chairman, so that they can get rid of it. And imagine now in some of the solutions that we make, which I should say, not to deal with ourselves, but to the extent that it can mean one quality debate that sometimes has a lot of things that may not be relevant, but the promoter certainly gets a number of suggestions. So, what your opinion is right now, is this going to reduce the quality of the acts that have been passed through this constituency body of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72757	I thank my colleague Panenic. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72758	You see, the intention is and this is in the Rules of Procedure's proposal to make this work of the Parliament more effective, which means faster, to reduce the debates, to make those times shorter, and actually not to see from it that with such discussions and with fewer replicas which are precisely being questioned by a particular segment of a legislative proposal or something that is directly required as an explanation of the motion. And the replica worked through two minutes just to ask something specific and something specific in the explanation. And exposure on behalf of the club is a general statement on being law and fundamental solutions. Individual exposures are again concentrated on individual fragments. But the replicas mostly referred to those little finesse of legal proposals, and that is where the reply and explanation of the minister in charge was sought. I remember how many times we asked the government's representative about important laws through replicas and were in a position for the government to sit down and not respond to a single replica. We simply gave 20, 30 replicas, for example, of the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on the Communist Economy, the Government's representative was not responding, and that's not his function. He'd have to answer those lines. Unfortunately, we have been denied but it shows not the bad nature of the replicas, but the inability of the government's representatives to respond to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72759	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague The Downworlder for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Voice of HSU. ... Mr. Bukarica, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir. ... Stanka was after Mr. Dolnjak's exposure there were breaks. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] After that, they were replicas, and I told you when you asked for a break that you'd get a break after Mrs. Anka's new exposure to Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72760	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I often point out from this pay phone that I'm an architect, that I'm a space planner. The whole study so when I was studying at another time, it wasn't a computer and machine as it is today, it was drawn manually, so I drew my entire study all night and the usual thing was that somewhere around 11:00, 12 o'clock in the evening, it started drawing because then it was peace and drawing to me by morning. Lately in these early hours, I've been awake only when I'm in some weddings and women are my friends' children, and now I'm here because someone wanted me to. The one who wanted it because he could. So there's no dilemma at all. Do not turn the saw upside down for the simple reason that when you put the point of POS on the agenda that we already know will cause a certain interest of parliamentary representatives for the reason that we are talking about demographic measures of demographic recovery, when behind this is the Law on Protected Rentals, or about renting an apartment, and we know that this will be a big discussion, the earliest this Rules of Procedure could come about 9 o'clock in the evening, but it came by midnight and will last for as long as it takes. The promoter when he spoke, he said in favour of this Rules of Procedure that in order to gain quality, to get dynamics, to give importance to the committees, that a lot more would happen on committees and that there should be a lot of debate there, otherwise, I really rarely speak about the HDZ-HNS coalition in this assembly, I rarely talk about that famous tweet that was at 3 a.m., and I rarely talk about a situation that was equally not once told the story one of the things that was extremely important when the HDZ-HNS Coalition was formed before the elected Government was voted equally in this High House of Will of the majority to move me from the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. And ever since, I'm not on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction anymore, 'cause obviously I was in somebody's way there. Since not all my colleagues are there, I wouldn't have a problem telling who I was bothering, but since not all my colleagues are there, I'm not going to say it. I was in this committee for obvious reasons because I had something to say and you know well that I and this pay phone when it comes to spatial planning and construction, regardless of the things that are well done, I don't talk about it, and all the things that are badly done are the same things I'm talking about. And I'm sure my position on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction could only raise the quality of the work of that committee because it could ask certain questions, direct a certain discussion. But by the will of most I am not on that committee. Therefore, it only speaks in favour of this, so we change the Rules of Procedure in a way that we transfer some of the jobs to the Committee which is principally OK except when we come to reality. The will of the majority will be how committees will work, when they are called together, what will be the subject here, so that, in order to raise the quality of work on committees, we will actually reduce the whole quality, or we will do what most want. Most of them wanted and had no sense to discuss this Rules of Procedure in these late or early morning hours, and we brought it to absurdity. We're really in one thing right now, the absurds of our colleagues taking a nap on this side, our colleagues taking a nap on the other side, they're all already nervous, some are hot, some are cold, some are no longer following anyone. When I went there, I didn't know if I had a break on behalf of the club or if I was arguing on behalf of the club because that's the condition. Let's be honest and say we started on March 1st at 9:30 that was my people 22 hours ago, 21 hours ago we started. I had a sledgehammer on behalf of the club at the time where I talked about "Greetings for Home Ready" I don't know what day it was anymore. It was yesterday. So we led to that. And why is that? Just because someone could, because someone was stubborn, because they said I could, and you'll discuss the Rules of Procedure when I want. Well, we've shown that it can turn into other situations. They're not unusual situations like this. This is a bit unusual, but I remember when I was a minister, I always came to Parliament as a minister. I didn't come only when it might have been amendments, but I always came with my laws because I appreciated parliamentary deputies and I cared about what they would say. He was supposed to be behind me in the late evening hours, and then there was a debate in the late evening and there was 10 o'clock in the evening, and another minister, who was at the concert. And then their colleagues had replicas of each other because they were actually waiting for the time to come. So these are instruments, which are commonly used in one parliament. However, what are the key objections, there are several topics in this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I would agree with some topics even to be prepared about some topics and if only they had stayed and voted. One topic is these unfortunate 3 replicas. My people when I was going here, I was thinking about how much I was looking for, how much I took part in the breaks on behalf of Club 3 or 4, so I counted 3 but I had to think. So each of us Parliamentarians are going to think we're on two lines, we've given three replicas, do we have another right to one? And who will record how many replicas we gave them, these colleagues here. So time is recorded there, these replicas are recorded there, so either we have to do this system, so that we have recorded how many of us have given the replica, or we're going to have to have someone else sitting there, who's going to record, how many of us have given the replica, not giving maybe one more. My people when they're doing something, then they need to think about why they're doing it. Why are you doing this? Because it's neither the Proposer nor the Hider. He said to my people, here in the Parliament you're the thing that led to absurdity, that we've never had before, that's where the replicas are kept, the replicas are recorded whoever and any debate, and you're also looking for permanent breaks on behalf of the clubs and let's cut it down. The stations in the name of clubs from 1 to 2 so who gets there, who doesn't, who doesn't, and the replicas on one topic of 3 replicas. And it was a desire to actually silence the opposition. However, the subject of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure is not here. Here's the theme that the rulings have imagined an ideal representative. And they want to make us an ideal representative. You can put me in a room with a mat, so I have to jump up and say I have to jump to the heights I don't know how much. Three years later, when you get here, I'm going to jump into heights exactly as much as I did three years ago when you put it on me. What do I want to tell you? We are who we are. One discusses in one way, the other in another way. One's in his address, he's talking dirty, the other's talking a little different way. And by amending the Rules of Procedure, you won't change us. Therefore, there is no ideal representative, the MP is elected in the elections. I'm by the will of the voters, by the indisposed party where I've been, rather than by the will of the voters in two, I'm the two conquistadors, therefore, that convocation, which lasted a year, and I've had another convocation. I have entered the vote twice with 8 seats in Parliament with the will of voters and a preferential vote. For the first time, none of us had any idea what that meant. And it wasn't easy on the ground. The second time, we already knew a little bit more what that meant. Therefore, voters choose us and no one can create an ideal representative and tell voters what ideal MPs should choose, so that most of them will be satisfied that this opposition ideal representative in the Assembly works. We work each other in our own way. Someone's gonna use this phone booth to talk about the subject, the other one's gonna use it to make it the first and last sentence, to talk between everything else. However, there are several legalitys in life. If you figure out it's some kind of mess, so you want to get that mess in order, you can't bring it in a mess. What they're ruling at this point, they've made a mess. They said about the Rules of Procedure you'll discuss when we decide that you'll discuss it. We will give you some nightly appointments, so you will not be interested in anyone, so say what you will, and in fact do not care, that I may be honest with you, and we do not rule them over what we say, because they know exactly what they wanted to put into the Rules of Procedure, and they will vote. I don't have any dilemmas, possibly if someone's on their way and they're sick, then it's going to be 77 hands, otherwise it's going to be 78 hands. That's the majority of parliament who will vote neatly in this Rules of Procedure. What we need to insist on all the time and we need to talk from this pay phone, which is a problem in this Rules of Procedure, and the problem is the opposition doesn't have much tools. One of the tools is the word, the word says, I have to admit that in life I always felt terrible when I came to school in the morning and when the professor came and said everyone was late. That's what we who came in time didn't hear those who were late. Likewise, when the promoter says, we have been working on an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, to force MPs, to prepare for exposure either on behalf of the club or individually. When I hear you, I'd rather jump to the one who's talking, for the reason I read, I'm getting ready, I'm not going to go out for your pay phone, and before that, the material I'm working on, it didn't look like this, it looked all worked out and looked at it as soon as possible, as possible. I've got two liquids there, and I'm gonna keep getting ready. You can cancel my break and cancel whatever you want, I'll prepare and tell you if it's a tool. Through that tool we point out and not every time because we are bad because we are opposition, but because we care. The law on the municipal economy, it worked for a ministry that I led until recently, and before that, for many years. It was me when I read that law, to tell someone there, my people, what you were doing, what circus you're making out of a normal law. And what was the result? There was one really serious debate and I have to say that the mayors and mayors who were of the ruling were even more severe than some of the opposition. We came to the vote, we shouldn't have told anyone, we knew how to vote. And what you need, I say it a few times, just listen to what we're saying. Just listen to some of it, put some of it in. And we're not just talking about being mean, to use it I don't know, to say that this or that isn't good. It's because we want something better in this country. And why are we talking about the Rules of Procedure? First of all, every action causes a reaction. So if you make us have to discuss these late-night, early-morning hours, we'll discuss it, and we'll discuss it until when it's due. And we'll argue because you can't take that away from us. You can't take our word from us, you can't take it from us to come here and you can't take it from us to talk. Likewise, everything behind these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure actually hides another fact. We're getting on your nerves. We get on your nerves because we get on behalf of clubs and we get on your nerves because we have replicas, we get on your nerves because we have something to say, we get on your nerves even more when we say exactly what we need to say when it doesn't suit you. And since we're getting on your nerves so bad, then you decided to cut down on the Rules of Procedure the possibility of speaking to the opposition. Now. When any regulation is done, changes and additions are made, you have an existing state of view and watch what your ultimate goal is. The final goal was to reduce the impact of opposition and opposition. But you will create a problem for yourself. I've only told you one little fact here. The fact that he's going to record which one of us was giving three replicas. You'll have to have another one here to record because it can't be worse. So he's gonna have to keep an eye on who gave it, so someone's gonna leave, and then the other one's gonna come back. And it will certainly cause a new series and pauses, or we will seek what we will be able to do, regardless of what we will say half a minute of damage to the Rules of Procedure and the rest, it will cause a new wave of trouble. Similarly, all parliaments in all parliaments really have an opportunity to put themselves past the agenda and I don't see any reason why you couldn't leave it to be Wednesday and Thursday morning at 09.30 to 10.30 instead of 1-2, on Fridays after the vote, and that would be incomparably better, and that would be on the trail of democracy that we care about. This amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure is about the fact that, unfortunately, you don't care about democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72761	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. I'm setting a break until 6:00. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72762	Since colleague Maras asked for a break almost an hour ago. Meanwhile, the situation has changed, so I would not talk about the heroes of parliamentaryism but about the current political situation. Please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72763	Thank you very much. So you're on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 6 o'clock and 50 minutes. It's 6:35 a.m. Let's go to the replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72765	Well, colleagues, here, in this patch of Rules of Procedure, which means from 23.30 yesterday that we're talking about and basically, we showed most of this time that it won't be easy to terrorize the minority. They'll bring in the Rules of Procedure, but they'll remember this day. They'll remember this day, I said it at 23:30, this is what you said, when I held the patch one minute here on my mouth and said by dawn you'll welcome a new working day and when I asked them outside the club to interrupt the session and to leave today at 9.30, they didn't want to because they wanted to drag this document out exclusively and without debate and without the public. But this will be even more public. In fact, he's got a lot on them. He's got a boomerang back in their chests. Whether they are heroic or not, it will be assessed by the promoter, Mr. Reiner, who is also the knight of Jerusalem, the tomb of Christ, so I expect him to talk about this, is the people now waking up and wanting to hear what was going on in parliament. What's been going on since... The knights of the Swedish chairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let them answer, where are they? It must never be allowed for democracy to terrorise the minority, and in particular we will not allow the freedom of speech to be abolished and banned, regardless of this trade coalition that will vote this Rules of Procedure. And because of that, this is a strong message to most.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72766	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72767	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bull, it would have been a little simpler for me too if you'd announced that you'd be working all night. So then, after discussing on behalf of the Club about renting apartments, I might still go home and get some rest and wait for this appointment. But a joke aside. What you have a chance to see, you and I, open up the portals a little bit, and it says, "The whole night circus in the Parliament." Well, it's not that circus because we wanted to. It's a circus because you're forced to. So it's a classic story in which most people say, so we don't need to discuss the Rules of Procedure. We put exactly what we wanted in the Rules of Procedure, we have the exact provisions that we wanted. We have that committee, enough hands. We'll hire those hands and it hasn't happened that at noon, when the vote wasn't enough the number of hands was, possibly if someone was on the road, and lately no one could go on Fridays or on the road that it wouldn't happen if there was a vote. So we'll have enough hands, enough hands will be enough. That's exactly what we want to vote on. We'll vote on it. But, always and always in life, I have two sons and I've always raised them in a way, you never go any weaker than yourself. Try to fight it, then go with the stronger one on yourself, so if you can get there, then you've done something. Just like that, you know, when someone decides to be stubborn. The Croatian people are really famous for this stubbornness, so we can be stubborn as long as we have to and show that we don't have to be here all night, that we don't have a problem working, and as far as we're concerned about a break in the name of clubs, there are enough topics, so no matter how many breaks we need, we'll open ourselves up so much. However, the Rules of Procedure are important. He's important for the simple reason, and that's what we say all the time. Our tool is speech. We don't have any other tools to work than speech, and if you take that away from us, you've taken our tool of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72768	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. Next replica. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72769	Dear fellow Taritash, you've said well. We didn't ask for this. At 11.30 p.m., we prayed to the ruling majority that after a day-long debate on an important law, they also shifted an important debate on amendments to the Rules of Procedure for today. They refused to agree to this because their intention was not to follow the debate and their intention was to have fewer representatives participate in the debate. They didn't count on our endurance, on our spite, and we told them, no matter what you intended, this debate and this topic will be met in the morning, they'll welcome a new day. As things stand now, here comes my colleague, Alexic. And he will arrive for an individual debate, as things stand, this debate could last until after noon. This debate could also take everything that you intended for the public not to know what you were doing, to deny freedom of speech to the MPs, to reduce the time for replicas, to move and reduce the possibility of pauses, not to leave the possibility of opposition to call the committee's thematic sessions, so our colleague Ines and colleagues Tomislav who had the most active approval will no longer be able to do so without your permission. The public will know all that now. And this is one big victory of opposition. I thank all fellow MPs who have endured the night, colleagues from the SDP, counterpart Anki Mrak-Taritash, colleagues from the Living Wall, all of course to their colleagues from the Most who have endured all night to show the public what HDZ is up to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72770	I thank Mr. Grumoja. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72771	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. You know, in spite, it always fits even more intimately. You can always respond to stubbornness with even more stubbornness. At some point I don't know at what time I said try to imagine the awry and the two rams. That's what happened now. You're actually asking us to have a debate about the Rules of Procedure and to try to speed it up, to be over there by about two or three, to finish the story we've been having all night and it's certainly enough for all these colleagues to come and to have the debate not only until noon, but also beyond noon. You forgot, every club still has a five-minute final hearing. And we're gonna use that right. Imagine so we'll use it for a simple reason, so our tool is our word. Our tool is speech. Now imagine that you tell someone who edits hedges here's your job, but the scissors you cut it with can only be used from 10 to 11. Before that, you can work with some little scissors like this and behind that, too. So that's what we're talking about. So on several occasions we said in this Rules of Procedure, and these changes have a number of things that are acceptable, which should have been done, where we should have had a more interesting discussion, a more pro-pulsive debate, about actually having a lot going on, and we would agree there. But there are a few things we warned about when we heard in the media about what would be the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, when we had opportunities to see and make remarks and I don't understand, I don't understand the ruling and their stubbornness. It's always on your head in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72772	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for this answer. Comrade Bulj answered his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72773	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The topic is the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72774	Thank you, fellow Bull. You know very well that only after the next presentation can you get a break, so when the next exhibition is finished then we'll talk about the breaks. We're moving on. Replica esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. I'm glad we took advantage of all our options, that we brought this debate this morning, and that we'll bring her back at noon. And when injustice seeks to become a law of resistance becomes a duty and I am absolutely pleased with the other MPs here from the Most, the SDP, the Voice, the Living Wall that we have welcomed the dawn even though many did not expect it. It's not dawn anymore, it's day. As you yourself said in the debate, three lines are limited, the duration of the replicas is reduced, the breaks are lifted. It's nothing more than calling a single word as a whole restricts the right to speak to each individual of us. And I understand why this is the intensity of the HDZ majority party in this alliance, or government. But it is not clear to me that their coalition partners who are called peoples, who are called liberals, allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72776	I thank my colleague Pranic. My colleague Taritash's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72777	Thank you very much. Let me go around back. I'll get to the beginning. That's what you need to ask coalition partners. So when you enter a coalition then there is a coalition agreement and the assumption is that there are some things that are important for coalition partners and for these things coalition partners make sure that that is the case. I was a minister in a coalition government and I know exactly that we had some things that mattered to us. Let's just say that when it came to the example of a colleague, Linic, who was at the time a minister of finance, went with a law on real estate tax. We were very against it. We wrote why we were against it and this law did not go any further, or the coalition partner respected all the arguments that we said. The true god of fellow Linic didn't talk to me for three months, but later he calmed down, and it all fell into oblivion. However, let us return to the subject of this Rules of Procedure. In this Rules of Procedure, you have this very unusual provision where everyone will have the right to discuss three replicas. Why is it three? For unknown reasons, it could have been five, and it could have been one. Maybe it could've been a trap in your mind. You're entitled to one replica. It will be very interesting to follow these three replicas. First of all, each of us will somehow be able to track down the three replicas for ourselves. They'll have to aim at whether at the beginning, whether in the middle, whether in the end, a little look at how clubs and everything else are. However, I will find it much more interesting to monitor how it will be organised. Who's gonna sit there? Who's gonna take notes? With what... such a large table of all MPs, so the cartoons will write, because unlike that, what time you can track, which these other things, you can track, the more the parliamentary representative comes out and comes back, the more interesting it will be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72778	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. We are going to the next line, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72779	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Taritash, you said in your presentation, something I understand best now, when you lied, you said that in this hour we no longer know who's looking for replicas at the break, or who's holding a break, or who's talking on behalf of the club, so I don't know who we're talking about anymore, or who we're talking about anymore, but I'm glad we're here by these hours. Because, uh, very wise, let's call it the way they wanted to, in fact at the last minute, get us this point, leave it in the late hours, counting that we won't really discuss it for long. I'm glad we stayed here, discussed it, and showed them that they had changed a little, because they didn't count on a pretty stubborn team coming together in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72780	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ninčević Lesandric, reply from counterpart Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72781	Thank you very much, indeed, after you have debates on behalf of the club, so after you have a series of breaks, so when you get there, you have to remember yourself if you came to debate on behalf of the topic or you pause on behalf of the club. And if it's a break that doesn't turn out to be something that was before now. So there's a little bit of a problem right now, and I understand that. I won't even talk about the problems that will be when our colleagues come in fresher, sleepy, showered, so God forbid they sit anywhere near us, we don't recommend that they sit very close between us, who'll be there 24 hours and see it out the window for 24 hours. But it was worth it. And I, and it was worth it, was worth it for a reason, which shows something in the context of democracy. Democracy is being taught. That's something you can make a mistake about sometimes. But, basically, most of them, there's this committee, that really everything they want to do, can be spent, that they can spend all day discussing the Law on the Communist Economy, that it's not right, that it's like this, this or that, and that it's finally voting for it. But, really, in this way, I'd say even humiliate the minority and say, so it's all one thing, and you argue as much as you want, we'll bring back what we want anyway. It's just for democracy and for processes it's not good. Everyone will normally wonder why, why do they do it? Why are they harassing? Why don't some things make it clearer, more transparent, because it can only actually, ultimately, lead to better things. When you go like this, it's always what life teaches you, when you go this extreme, when you go with a knife, when you go with an axe, when you go rough, it always comes back to you, so let's be alive and see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72782	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72783	Dear Mrs Taritash, there was a reason why they had discussed such an important topic, i.e., pushed the Rules of Procedure into the night, because they expected that they would not discuss these topics during the day, because they expected, that they would use, let's say the timing, because they did not expect the unity of the opposition, did not expect the willingness of the opposition and did not expect the stubbornness and stubbornness of the opposition. We showed them today that their attempt to silence us was barren, that he had failed and that he had failed them. And we are going to stand up to this legal violence every time, because what's going on, that this topic, which is important, is not just about one topic, this isn't about one topic, regulation of the rules of procedure, is really about every topic. This is the most important topic, because it regulates all other topics. We showed them that they can't hide what they're doing, they can't hide that they want to decimate the time for discussion, liquidate the replicas, liquidate the breaks, we showed them a firm attitude. I want to thank you for your community in these hours and this debate will last for more hours, and you will see all those arguments that HDZ tried to hide from the public we will consider here and strip them. And we're not giving up. And this time I'm telling HDZ, you could have put ladies and gentlemen in the morning, you'd have discussed it in the morning anyway, no breaks, only it wouldn't have been as bad years as it was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72784	I thank my colleague Pernar and my health. My colleague Dark Taritash's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72785	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Pernar, otherwise it's true. And health and truth, that's what you said. You know, we've already had some situations in this assembly. I remember the story, i.e. the situation that was when the Minister of Regional Development went with the regional development strategy and was also in some late evening hours at 9 p.m., respectively, at 10 p.m. I also asked the president of the HDZ Club at the time, and I asked them to try it on for the second day, because it was an extremely important document. It was about a document that was good, it was about documents, which we even wanted affirmatively. But, you know, stubbornness is such a good-looking story and then it was just supposed to be at 10 o'clock in the evening and somehow it was either under the radar or under the public light. You don't always have to look at it that way. You can often from some topic that looks uninteresting at first, make an interesting and equally interesting topic you can kill. But we talk all the time like the debate when we had this famous lex sheriff or when we had a debate about the Law on the Communist Economy caused a big debate in the Parliament, why? There's a lot of mayors and a lot of mayors sitting in this House. These laws are very important to them because the basis of these laws is what they do, and something that is important to us as Parliamentarians is the Rules of Procedure and logically that we are discussing it, logically that we want to say something and logically that we want to warn and in fact we are just calling the rulings, give us at least some things listen, it will be easier for us all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72786	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72787	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, definitely now issues that can be opened at this morning's actually as well as this new day. So we're actually opening up a new opportunity for the ruling to actually realize that this effort of ours, the pawnage, your pawnage that you've been following on behalf of your club, you've been with us all the time, somehow we feel we're more here so somehow we share, you've been following us alone, I know how much effort and effort it is to actually show that there's a need to hear a voice. To convey that voice. And what you are and in your presentation and instructions are actually messages that one day and this majority when in opposition will surely realize that they haven't done a good job with this move. And it's crucial now to think that if there are more of us clubs here from the SDP, from your club, from our club, the Living Wall is here, how do we transfer one of the ruling clubs because we see no HNS. So that's not their proposal, they're not interested in the proposal. They're suffering and we know that if there were any new choices so that they wouldn't have any harm, because they wouldn't be with us. So whoever doesn't have it doesn't even care that they actually comply with the majority of their ruling coalition and don't seek or discuss at all the need that could be created in future times. And therefore, esteeming your efforts, what is certainly important is that this message be continued and that the influence you have is shared by your former colleagues because you certainly share a lot more together which can help in future times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72788	Thank you, fellow Panenic. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72789	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Panenić, so it's really early, is starting a new day for the truth, and we're all here all night and we're tired and we're a little tired, but I haven't had enough concentration to say anything about my exes. I'm not really going to let myself do it because if I were with my colleagues, I'd say something ugly, I'd feel bad about it, and I'd feel like she's saying something about me, and I wouldn't do it, and I've never done it before. I won't do anything further. I have to admit that it's kind of hard for me at an emotional level to see things, but life goes on, so we go our separate ways. We've decided to go the other way, we've got a new party called the Civil Liberal Union, it's abbreviations, it's GLAS, I'm trying really to be and you know, you have such a good feeling that you're consistent so that you're consistent with what you're doing, that you're consistent with what you're saying, and it makes you feel one satisfaction, one good feeling in life. But here we talk all night, and when you underline the denominator regardless, you know often the opposition is like this, like this, divided, no coalition in opposition, the opposition is also independent of Croatia and colleagues from the Living Wall and we and SDP, so we have different ideas. However, the Rules of Procedure are important to all of us because by ruling the Rules of Procedure, our rights are limited and there is no dilemma. I am sorry that my colleague Podolnjak when he spoke in the debate on behalf of the club, that debate on behalf of the club was great because she was actually talking about the foundations of democracy, she said that in a parliamentary democracy like us, which means most of us, which means minority, which is the influence of the minority. It would be good, I think if someone had recorded that debate, that debate would be both educational and for parliamentary deputies to see where we are, what we are and how we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72790	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. I hope the next answer will compensate the time. Next replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72791	I thank the chairman. It has been a long night, but we have clearly proved that we are not a barren opposition because we have managed to deliver in Croatia a message that was important, you can have enough hands tomorrow, vote such a Rules of Procedure today, but we have warned the public as is this Rules of Procedure. If it had been in some kind of afternoon, some normal terms of debate, maybe it would have gone away and maybe it would have gone under the radar like that. And only one medium, or journalist Krajač, makes fun of and says what the MPs were talking about tonight, whether about wages, whether about economic growth, about demographic restoration, no, they were talking about themselves. All the other media say, they see that we are fighting for freedom of speech tonight, we are fighting the right not to end what we are here for and we are chosen to talk about problems that are in Croatia, to open topics. It would have been better if you had finished that story at some normal time, all the media were warned today and all the headlines of the book about what was going on here tonight. We fought, the opposition fought for the position, the situation that we can talk in the Croatian Parliament about the topics we choose, that we can have a replica, that we can call a thematic session and talk about what's important for Croatia, and not only that most people think it's important, and that's certain laws where they come or deposit voice and pass, that we can have current mornings where we can ask all ministers a question, not that they write to themselves, but that we also have the opportunity to ask them a question. That's what happened tonight, and that's what the media will tell. It would have been better if you had done it at some other time, it would have gone a lot more undetected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72792	I thank my esteemed colleague, Strenja-Linić. Answer. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72793	Thank you very much. Exactly, fellow Strenja-Linić. You do things in your life, sometimes they understand you, sometimes they don't understand you, sometimes when you do, and some good thing somebody's gonna get it wrong. However, it is very important that you feel good about what you do. Just so you know you've done a good job. To know that you've done something for a certain benefit. So we did it. That's where we showed how things can lead to absurdity. What if when they decided to cancel the breaks, we used the instrument we had and we led it to absurdity. We have really led to absurdity, but just to show what they are doing to this Rules of Procedure in terms of democracy. And what we've been saying all along. You know, you have, no matter how you work different tools. You have this one or that tool. Our tool is here. Our tool is this pay phone, our tool is this place, and through this tool we use replicas to indicate that something is not good in some law, we indicate that something needs to be changed. I haven't been in politics in a long time no matter what, I'm relatively short. But, however, my path has been quite lush, so then I have the same feeling that I am longer than I really am. Among other things, when I listened to more experienced colleagues, they told me this: it is important to repeat it many times. And when you think and when we think we've done it 10 times or 15 times, there's always going to be someone who hasn't heard or someone who's reacted wrong. Therefore, to be taken away from the MPs of the word and to be taken away from the MPs of the opposition, that means that the ruling wants this opposition to always be an opposition and that there is never a possibility of using its word in the way that it should be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72794	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72795	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, here in your debate you mentioned hypocrites. For example. Let's say the Law on the Communist Economy, that's where we look at from the ruling majority of the mayors and mayors on Wednesdays, how on Thursdays they complain that the Law is not good, they fight, they raise their vote for their city, for their municipality, for the county, and the same people on Fridays raise not a voice, but a hand against that city, and the county and that community. It's one hypocrisy that destroys this country from its design. So, it doesn't matter what they're saying, it's not about constructive proposals, it's only about this machine, it's just the act of voting, so I'm saying, according to Mr. Plenkovic's proposal, we're automated, we're centralized, our work is degraded, Parliament's role is reduced, we should probably be the obedient dog on Mr. Plenkovic's chain, there should be an apparatus that puts the law into it, and the law comes out of it. And all that's going on inside is so irrelevant. Therefore, we are opposed to this Rules of Procedure, we are opposed to such a relationship with the Croatian Parliament, we are opposed to all these measures that they have led to reduce the role of the board, that you cannot call a session of the thematic that you want without the control of the HDZ, that instead of 70 minutes you have 13 minutes to discuss, that you can only pause when they will. It's just all inadmissible together, this is a bad policy change and we'll repeat it as many times as it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72796	I thank my colleague, Sincic. Answer, colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72797	Thank you very much. Comrade Sincic, I think you should actually highlight two things. The hair is quite a glue. I'm a lot of years old and you know, when you're young, then you have one comedy that you can have one dose of naivety. Anyone who thinks that on any subject this number of 78 MPs will not be unique, we're wrong. The only topic I think we can do is the Istanbul Convention. So when she comes to the debate to vote, because there will be some separation, there we can show that weakness of the HDZ. But colleagues will argue, they will say something is wrong, they will even be sharper in some elements than we are. But when it is a vote, it is all forgotten. But, however, I always and in this mind one other thing bothers me. It bothers me that our promoter, who believes or doesn't, is gone again, so what we're discussing here, we're discussing between ourselves, and you know well that when there's a proposal from the government, so God forbid, there's no secretary of state or anything that we all point to him coming quickly, and this promoter has ignored us most so far. He didn't answer anything, he didn't ask to answer anything. I wonder if you have a closing word, so it's not even there right now. This promoter when he explained, then he said he was doing it all because here, in the House we have all sorts of parliamentary representatives, so they don't get ready, so they come unprepared for discussion, and then they come unprepared for discussion on behalf of the club, and then they come for an individual unprepared for discussion, and these replicas and it doesn't matter, and then we'll end it. Actually, you wanted one robot agent, we're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72798	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Taritash, and the last replica of your presentation, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72799	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, this Rules of Procedure have been in force for 4 years, or almost 5 years, and before that were similar business provisions. But it never happened that in the debate, they used the opportunities so intensely, which the Rules of Procedure provides. When did she use herself? Then when this Rules of Procedure was tried, it was changed. It's actually an absurd. So, something that could have passed, relatively painless and calmly, to improve the quality of the debate, so that I, in the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, do not have to wait eight hours, but that the most normal clubs present their views, then, in an individual debate, without any other change, continue to argue according to the rules so far. Such stubbornness, in fact, has proved to be very often counterproductive and can only be seen, how many opportunities were not used because they did not need to be used. So we could express our views, with more or less nerve rips and the parliamentary majority and our other colleagues waiting in line for a relatively long time. And now something completely unnecessary has happened. So, instead of being in one reasonable time yesterday, reasonablely interrupted and continued today at 9.30 or at 10 o'clock, so it would be over by 12 or to 2 and that the most normal continues and I welcome the President of the Parliament, I think you deserve a round of applause for this early arrival to the Parliament and... And now I have to break up because I did. [[Applause.]] I'm actually inviting him to call the vice president to stop the debate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72800	You're out of time, pal. Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72801	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Bauk, in fact, so, all night's debate on the Rules of Procedure, why all night? If you were really listening to the voice of reason, that voice of reason, it's always a handsome voice. We could discuss all this in 2, 3 hours. But he wouldn't listen to the voice of reason, he complained, I can do what I want. You know, it's always dangerous for you, whenever you want, to take a step too much. And I've learned that often that step is too much of a break-in. And the counter effect of that was, in a way, that here, we've been discussing it all night. The fact is we're discussing the same things, in about the same way. But the fact is that when it's such a long night and you take a little Rules of Procedure, then you read a little bit, and then from that reading you come to the fact that your colleague Reiner at one point was both a representative and a promoter and a chairman, that he couldn't really do it all together, so we read it, so your arrival showed that we were right. Because you know that we were wrong, you wouldn't be coming, no matter what you're nodding your head, if you weren't. Everyone reads the way I think it should be read. But that appeal of ours and ours all the time is based on two important things. One thing is a break in the name of clubs, that you gave us, that we can go from 1 to 2 and that you think that's quite enough for us is absolutely unacceptable and this to reduce the replicas to 3 replicas per debate, it's going to be one, it's going to turn into the next circus. I haven't experienced this night as a circus, I've experienced this night that the opposition says, my people, don't take away our only tool of work, and that's our speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72802	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72803	Thank you, sir... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72804	Comrade Pernar, I told you after the debate, that we would approve a break... So it doesn't matter, let Mr. Bauk finish, and then you'll ask for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72805	Let me get started. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, respected by the motion that is Vice-President of the Parliament and the president who is the promoter, respected MPs, respected to the public and everyone else. The SDP advocates' club will finally say when it sees the proposal coming forward on its amendments. Even though we'd be in an awkward situation, to accept our essential amendments, because in order to explain then, we'd been rebelling against something for 10 hours and then they'd accepted our amendments. And yet to explain that they accepted our amendments and insisted on a debate in the night. So this is one situation that will further increase the absurdity of this situation. I'd also like to use the right of the article. The 233rd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure and ask for the approval of a five-minute longer speech for the importance of the subject, if the chairman will accept it. On this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we have tabled 17 amendments, of which two amendments are crucial that could change our position to vote against amending the Rules of Procedure. I'll follow the amendments in order, and then I'll go ahead and say which ones we consider important. So, first of all, what an honor Mr. President and that's it. So that's the only change to the Rules of Procedure that was needed to achieve all of what you Mr. President of the Board said in your opening statement that these objectives were achieved. And nothing else was supposed to happen, nothing else was supposed to do. Also, there are now two amendments that are crucial to us, and if proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club, they will support these business changes. One is, as far as the breaks are concerned, so what you were planning to be in the afternoon, at one, to be left at 9.30, so let's stay on the same thing. And I don't know why, they haven't given an argument yet why it... And secondly, and secondly, which would really surprise us to accept, but we believe that, in Article 21 of this proposal, a new item is added: “The President will take part in the debate for the next 7 days and the debate will be held for that item of the agenda, which is requested by written request by at least 20 MPs and which is on the agenda for at least 30 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The representative shall be entitled to sign only one request during the same month.’. So the amendment that is a little tempered, I would say, and exactly I would say the Pharaohic powers of the President of the Parliament are only about one thing, which is that it determines what will come on the agenda and that it is given to the opposition or the parliamentary minority, and also to the majority because 20 MPs can also be the majority to put a point on the agenda and to discuss it. And then we settled all these remarks about limiting freedom of speech. We would immediately say 20 SDP MPs would sign first to put the Law on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against violence against women and then the other 20 MPs would probably sign something else, so they would probably sign the same thing and compensate for everything you've limited in freedom, so to speak. Freedom of speech of the opposition and choice of topics. And then you'd prove that what was a full-night debate about reducing freedom of speech if you didn't mean it because that's what you're saying you didn't mean. But if it stays like this then we have the next situation, so the replicas are reduced from 2 minutes to 1 minute, they're limited to 3 breaks, the speech after the break is limited, free debates are no longer from 9.30 when the media is tracking but from 13.30 and normally you're faced with such criticisms that are correct. So only two changes, small but significant would actually be our whole, all-night discussion and yours, would show that we were wrong. But I don't think so, because you're not going to accept these amendments. And I also want to say that I want to say that this, just to say something, is that this debate has not exhausted all possibilities for further discussion. It is therefore possible, on this proposal, to amend the Rules of Procedure as long as a debate is being held, to write one thousand amendments so that the word and the word is deleted, so that the other word is deleted times two minutes as long as it has the right to an explanation. This, therefore, doesn't have to be brought to you all next week, you'll have to submit an amendment to enter into force on the first day of the publication in the National Journal and not the 8th to compensate. But as you can see, therefore, the current behaviour of the parliamentary minority was a little longer than what possibly some debates in previous synergy would have lasted but were not very close to taking advantage of all the obstructive possibilities that the Rules of Procedure, which the unnatural parliamentary majority had brought in order for the people's opposition to speak freely in the Parliament,... This unnatural government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now this people's power is passed by a law that the Rules of Procedure, which reduces the rights of the opposition given to them by an unnatural authority, is that absurd? Therefore, let us be very careful in mechanisms. So these are Amendment No. 13th and Amendment No. 16 of these 17 amendments to the SDP to determine our vote on this Rules of Procedure. And for the other 14 amendments, I suggest that you consider them and that one of those you consider to be good, or who we consider to be good because I am formally a member of the Committee on the Constitution and a formal proposer of this Rules of Procedure to accept them. Mr. President of the Board, I don't think you're going to be able to reach the 11 o'clock meeting of the board to make a statement about the amendments because it's still going to take a debate, so if you could let us know about the new appointment, we'd be very grateful. ... That's what we'll see, so it depends, depends on what it depends on, so it's possible that you say that now, at 9.30 we move on to those points of the agenda that the President of the Parliament has already announced, these are the HINA Report, and one law seems to me so that we can continue the debate on the Rules of Procedure, continue traditionally on Friday night on Saturday, and then I guess we'll end it once, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72806	You don't have to worry, we're working until we're done. The only thing we're going to do is stop voting at 12, but all morning, they're going to listen to whatever they want to say to our citizens and viewers. So the HDZ Representatives Club just owns a club, which is probably why they're away. How about some damage to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Comrade Grmoy, you unfortunately can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, is a colleague of Bucharest reminded me. Were you colleagues looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Then let's go with the replicas now. First up, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72808	Comrade Bauk, we know that most people always boast that 5:0 is in some kind of victory without counting on the government's fall not so long ago and not counting on this evening which was terribly interesting, a session that lasts means this point of the agenda something of the welcome half-night, the change of this patch of rules. Now I don't know how to sign this, is this a victory for freedom of speech, or is this a colleague of Bačić down at the club, see if there's a full assembly from the HDZ Club, or is this going to be another victory? This is the victory of a group of Parliamentarians who were determined to say no, not manipulations among which you were my seven colleagues from the Most, two colleagues from the Living Wall and two from the SDP and the GLASA ladies, that group of people told them no, a session that lasts continuously more than this 25th hour. That's not what they were hoping for, and it's a blow to the majority who wanted to take away the freedom of speech from the minority. And this is all the future governments is a reminder i.e. most of them in Parliament, as well as those who will be after them. I can see it doesn't work for an hour, I guess it's a system load, or it's some kind of diversion. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72809	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72810	I'd like my next wins to be less difficult. So, fellow Bull, we're in a paradoxical situation. So he had most of the parts that minority members should show as a minority understanding of the parliamentary minority, where the majority of the majority wants to take away minority rights, while at the same time asking the majority to respect minority rights in the way they respect. It's a rather paradoxical and interesting situation. I'm surprised, though, that I was able to say it after 20 and a few hours in the Parliament, but it doesn't matter how much it still serves me. So to be honest, so the biggest prank our HDZ colleagues can make to accept these two amendments. Then neither you nor you will have any excuse not to vote in favour of that amendment. Now, I've heard that their problem is to accept these amendments because they're not sure if we're going to vote for the Rules of Procedure then, that's what I heard. So now I could talk them out of it, and you could talk them out of it. So the fact is that local self-government councilors will probably, within my 13 replicas, appear to be the president of the HDZ Club, who is usually from the Municipality of Blato in Korcula, and right there is a parliamentary minority who makes HDZ signatures ask for a meeting of councils to put on the agenda things they want to be and we only ask that in a much smaller volume, this right is given to parliamentary representatives. So we said 20 signatures once a month that's theoretically 3.5 points of the agenda that we could propose monthly. Now of course I'd always ask that then you won't be at 3.5 points again all night...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72811	Thank you. You were looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72812	Yes, Mr. President. While you were sleeping, we had problems like this. So 233. The Rules of Procedure injured, the Proposer's point is not in the assembly and we cannot discuss it this way, I ask you to call. So it's academic Zeljko Reiner, the creator of the Rules of Procedure and these changes, and we simply can't argue without him while he's gone. I don't know if you followed home around 2, 3 we had quite a heated discussion about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72813	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72814	Mr. President. I would also point out at this time while you were at home that a part of the session was held against the business, and it goes into the amendments to the Rules of Procedure where, at the same time, the knight of the Jerusalem Cemetery, Vice President of the Parliament, was at the same time chairing and proposing. Just so you know, at this very moment, the same case is in front of the board the only authority in the motion is Mr. Reiner, with what Mr. Bauk from the board has offered that while he is sitting, he is not allowed. So, this whole process is reediculous, this process is all scandalous, this would be best to withdraw, this is what I'm saying because of you as President of the Parliament is degraded both you and the Parliament to the pain. Pull this patch of rules because it is simply against business and non-constitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72815	Thank you. Time's up. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72816	Thank you, President of the Parliament. There has been a violation of Articles 233 and 238, namely, we have been here all night, I have asked and personally during my debate a dozen questions to Mr. Reiner the Proposer, he has not accepted a single answer and explained what it means and what it says, and it offends not only me but also other fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72817	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72818	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this is a violation of Article 233 of the current Rules of Procedure. Namely, the respected academic Reiner is a pronoun. He had opening words behind it and had no need to address it once. And I suppose he was very careful to record everything that we had to say in the debate since the debate was so long. I think it would be good for him to be here, so he can record it. And I expect that in the final word they will then refer to everything that was said in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72819	Okay. Here's what I'm gonna do. If you're going to do another one of these, I'm going to take a 30-minute break until the proposer gets back. There he is. It's 8:51 p.m. Okay, fine. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:22 A.M.]] We're going back to work. There's no proposal again, though. What do I do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72821	Mr. President, I offered myself during the night that when Mr. Reiner was tired as a member of the board that I was changing him. So that offer still stands, you see that I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72822	Then we can continue to work and you will then step in instead of the president and interpret the committee's views as they were voted most of the votes. ... You got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We were standing on the tail of a colleague of the bush. Unfortunately, he's not here, so he's losing his right to speak. Then it's my colleague Petrov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72823	Comrade Bauk, on several occasions not only in your speech as a speaker but also during the replicas you mentioned the importance of democracy. So now I don't know what democracy or the ruling majority's insistence to introduce a greater democracy if there are objections to the process of adoption and, of course, content. The procedure for adopting this Rules of Procedure was an emergency procedure, interesting. They cited in their argument that an emergency procedure is needed because it will contribute to greater democratisation and labour efficiency. We honestly do not see why it will come to such a goal because it is not seen from the reasoning of the proposal at all. For us, democracy is the moment when you have two readings, when you have a public consultation, when you go through the whole procedure. But I also can't believe that you who are always promoting democracy support this way of making it, but here's hoping that in your reply to the replica you'll explain it. On the other hand, the proposal has serious democratic deficits because they decided to put the discussions of certain reports only on working bodies, no longer at plenary sessions, the majority's conclusion on the committee to convene a thematic session or hold a public debate at the session, the decision of the majority of the representatives present at the session to hold a united debate, can be misused because it is logical to assume that the parliamentary majority, if they so wish and can ensure the majority of those present, the reduction of the time period of replication and the number of replicas within the debate on the agenda point. I'd say every government has a majority but only democracy has a quality opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72824	Here's your answer, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72825	So I thank you with one part of these, and I'll say the restrictions you've given yourself, and I agree that they're not good, and we've put an amendment on them. For example, this report says that there is still an expansion of the circle required to discuss with the government's reports. I must admit that during our parliamentary majority, we were also thinking that part of the report might be possible but that it could be discussed differently on committees so that it would now become self-inflicted if it were to very strongly oppose it. As for ending the decrease in the duration of the replica, I also think that the only change in the replicas that should be is that the replicas are not about to be exposed to clubs because it's not logical. So you're replicating the person, not replicating the club as a whole. And in that sense, it would dynamic an individual debate and clubs could express their opinions in one normal schedule. It's something they would support and then we shouldn't limit the duration of the replica, or the number of replicas, or anything. So here we have a certain different, different view of the thing, but what's key, so at this point we have mostly restrictions. We have suggested that we abolish one restriction and that this exposure be made on behalf of the club on the free topic of so-called. So far, they're returning the breaks to the time that's been so far. So that's where we advocate to keep the same condition. And secondly, OK, the fact that you're proposing restrictions, we're going to manage it, we just want to be given a part of what local self-government council members have. So the right for some of our points to come within a reasonable period of debate, then we too will be the ones who choose some topics and then will also discuss our proposals. We think it would be one step to compensate for these other restrictions that are being introduced. And that's where we can, of course, continue to argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72826	Thank you. The next is a respected colleague of Strenja-Linic's. Unfortunately, he's not here, so he's losing his right. He's a colleague of Sincic's sixth. He's not here either. And he's losing his right. But that's why she's a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72827	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Bauk, you've talked about most and minority studios quite this way. I have to admit that if I'm supposed to do it again, I can't do it again, but since we spent the whole night here, it's not weird. But what is unquestionably clear is this. That we spent all night in a debate about amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure just because most people wanted to. What most people say is no problem, we'll make the Rules of Procedure whatever we want, we've got enough hands to vote him out and you'll do what you want. But what you did in your debate on behalf of the club really discussed in detail were the amendments that your club made to the proposal of these amendments and additions. And you were talking about two key amendments. One amendment actually goes in the direction of the debate, or the possibility of debate on behalf of the clubs, to say, between 9.30 and 10.30, and the second amendment is related to the fact that with a certain number, if I am not mistaken, 20 MPs, after 30 days something in the agenda, they can put it on the agenda, so to come to the plenary session in the debate. At one point, your colleague Bacic told you that it may be that they are willing to take over, or perhaps accept one of those two amendments because you said that these two are extremely important to you, so if you accept that you will still be in a position as a club to vote for the Rules of Procedure. So I'm interested in, in fact, that answer, when we should choose between those two amendments, which would be more important to you and who you appreciate is more important in terms of democracy. Because we've been discussing all night, in fact, the fact that what Parliamentarians have, and that's a speech, that it's being denied, that it's being reduced, so I'm curious if here, hypothetically, you had to choose between those two amendments that you would choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72828	Thank you. And you want to know? [[I'm interested in that, too.]] [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72829	First of all, Mrs. Dark-Taritash, to comfort you, I couldn't repeat what I said about the majority and the minority at the beginning of one of the replicas, and I think it's a very clear answer. So if you ask by the criteria of democracy, then it's normal that for democracy it's less important whether you say something in 9 or 1, than if you're going to say it at all. So I would choose this second one to pick the agenda points, if that's the one, then we're satisfied with that one, but of course, since you've already, uh, since you asked me, is, is, is, yes. A little fellow Maras, but I forgive him, he's been up all night. Otherwise, my colleague, Oh, what you are, giving us two or three points of the agenda a month. [[What's the more important amendment?]] The first will be the Istanbul Convention, and then the second will be this MOST bill on three preferential votes, you will refuse, right? Then it will be, we'll find, or we'll make a suggestion. We have an idea, don't be afraid, and then we won't bother you with these replicas, breaks, etc. You'll be able to go to sleep normally, etc. Except for Mr. Maras, I can't speak for him, but we'll try pedagogically constructively to act on him as well. He's good and he can be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72830	Let's move on. The eighth replica, dear colleague Pranic, is not here. Nine, respected colleague Lesandric, also gone. Comrade Simic, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72831	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, first of all, I'd like to thank all those colleagues who've been here all night. Part of them went now to change into fresh clothes so they could continue to work. Thank you for allowing us to see, we who have not been so persistent can debate in these hours when yet Croatian citizens who are doing their normal jobs, among which should be the job of representatives of the Croatian Parliament at some decent time can follow. I found it interesting to observe the explanation of the rapporteurs in the submission of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, that the change itself will contribute to the greater efficiency of the work of the Croatian Parliament, so I would warn that the behaviour of then also the president of the Croatian Parliament, who influences and defines the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, does not contribute to the effectiveness of the work of this house. Why doesn't it contribute to efficiency? Yesterday, we had two important laws before the Rules of Procedure, which were known to last all day and with intent, so that we would not be effective, established such a agenda as to discuss the Rules of Procedure itself during the night. Of course, none of the rulings expected that we would persist, that our colleagues would endure all night, so that when they adopt this Rules of Procedure, they would actually win one of Piro's victories, which is by definition a victory that brings more harm than benefits. As for your presentation, Comrade Bauk, I don't think he'll accept your two suggestions. I must say that I was present at meetings when Mr. Petrov, as President of the Parliament, asked that he suspend or transfer to another time, so that this intention exists for a long time and will not agree to it, and as far as the agenda is concerned, the fact that our Law on Elections of Representatives, which was included in the establishment of the Croatian Parliament in this term, is in 80th place, speaks clearly about the desire and intent of how he will behave. Here's just two more words. [[Time, thank you. Good morning. Time!]] Most of them in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72832	Mr. Maras. Here you go. No, I don't. The answer, I'm sorry. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In one of my past replicas, I expressed regret that Mr. Bacic is not in the hall, and now Mr. Bacic is in the hall, so I would just like to pay attention to Mr. Simic's reply. So when you said the agenda, here, very transparent. What HDZ can do in the Municipality of Blato, which is to request a session that you requested to sign and put some points on the agenda, is discussed, so most of which so far are quite accidentally not in the majority, but one day you'll probably be refuted. This is what we are looking for in a much smaller form for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So it's very simple. Of course, I'd have to say gentlemen that at these business points of ours we're not going to drag them out all night, that'd be fine, we'll agree to that, because if we break the gentlemen's agreement, you'll end it very easily, etc. And so that's, one, that's what I was saying. So, and now there's a possibility that some things can be provoked, but only to ask for the shift of ministers or governments, etc. And it has to be put on the agenda. Perhaps this kind of business supplement would reduce the number of these government impeachments, and then the prime minister wouldn't have to be in the Parliament for so long and listen to and defend ministers who don't exactly defend him. Therefore, I still believe that there is a possibility that this change might be accepted even though we would be a little bit of an honest screw-up, because then we would really have to vote in favour of the Rules of Procedure after we've protested there all night. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72834	Thank you. Mr. Maras, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72835	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk, you are from Brač of Pucis, they are the pituitary people, the optimists, the full of faith, the communists. Look what happens when Mr. Glasnovic doesn't have a break. He's got to fire two, three communists, a south nostalgic and something else that's not working anymore. Oh, no? So, Arsen is, as I said, a Bračanin full of optimism and faith, but unfortunately, I'm not sure that faith will fall on fertile soil with HDZ, with colleagues Bačić and Reiner, who, by the way, haven't called in at least eight hours. Okay. So what I've seen minus that replica for at least the last eight hours, which means they're not very interested in what the opposition has to say, which means that we hit with this when we went to insist that Croatian citizens hear and see it, because they hoped it would remain undetected at night. [[Intruder: Reported to me for replication.]] But what I would expect, and maybe I'm a little naive and I have a lot more faith than I should be from representatives of minorities who fight for freedom, equality, the possibility of people expressing their position, so sometimes when they're as a minority, they're forced to open up space to fight for them, that they'll also be placed in the Croatian Parliament. So on that side, I believe that, say, the MPs of the Pupovac minority and Radin will support this proposal from your colleague, Bauk. Maybe if they're consistent with the device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72836	Minority deputies will interrupt you for now, because time is up. Here's the answer to the question, the answer to Mr. Bauk's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72837	Here I am, so as far as minority representatives are concerned, they're part of the majority in this case, and we're a minority. Therefore, minority representatives who are part of the majority should treat those of us who are minorities as they would like to be treated as if they were a minority to provide them with certain rights that most of us can provide in order to express the particularity that minorities have. Unity, plural, etc. So that's one, that's one of those situations that we're going to see what kind of epilogue they're going to have. And as for the rest, so, uh, fellow Reiner was there all night, working even more than he should have, because you were presidencies and you shouldn't have. And that's okay. I think it was a good thing there was someone else from the parliamentary majority, from the Constitution Committee, on behalf of the proposings, and then it would also be possible to compensate. We wanted the debate on the Rules of Procedure not to be at a deaf time of night and now the debate has come at this normal time. That would have happened if the session had been interrupted yesterday at 23:30, 23:45. Only then, there wouldn't be this many individual debates, but it would be on behalf of the club. I see the entire MOST club has applied for an individual debate. So that's one thing. And secondly, this Rules of Procedure has been in force for a long time, never used such an obstructive option, and it just shows, so this was one situation that shouldn't have happened and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72838	I've written down the minority station most of the time, and most of the minorities. That's where I wrote it. Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bauk, therefore, in a certain part of your amendments, they are interesting to us and the HDZ Club will be evident about your amendments as well as other amendments and we will present our position on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. What I mean is that no matter when and at what time they had and held a debate on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has so far been the most democratic of all amendments to the Rules of Procedure even when a new Rules of Procedure has been made. Therefore, the fact that I have not participated in the debate for eight hours is not an argument that I have been talking for three, four months about amendments to the Rules of Procedure both in the public and on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of which you and I are members and you know very well ours and especially my position. As for your two amendments, which are obviously breaking to you and which you have declared if the Government accepts them at all, we are prepared to accept these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, it is best proof that all other instruments that are in that Rules of Procedure do not go after them to silence the opposition. Because I do not believe that the president of the largest opposition club in the Parliament would, because of two of their amendments that would accept the ruling one be willing to sacrifice that for all the other instruments that are provided for in the amendments to this Rules of Procedure, have a sense of opposition. So you've confirmed that for the SDP, all these changes are acceptable if we accept these two amendments. And I think those two amendments should be considered. And we, as a club, will really think about it and see how we will set ourselves up, and then we will say that on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72840	Thank you very much. Before I answer, I would like to welcome the students and students of the 10th School Ivan Supek from Zagreb. If you have any more power after tonight's debate, I'd like to give you a round of applause for students and students. Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72841	So, I'll answer the same way. The instruments provided for in the Rules of Procedure, in a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, are, in fact, in one part limited in relation to the rights of MPs, but this one of these two amendments, all these restrictions compensate. So just as you think that the amendments would make me accept restrictions, they wouldn't accept them because that compensation is exactly what would be acceptable to us, and so do I. I don't think that because of that one amendment and three points of the agenda, you'd miss the opportunity for consensus, you could set things up like that. Therefore, we were very transparent on one committee, on the other committee, on the third committee in the talks before all the committees and in the talks before all the committees, mentioning it as something that would be acceptable to us. So, I'll repeat, one of our amendments is more restrictive than the rights of MPs than the proposal, and that's the suggestion that it can't be replicated by clubs, but then there's no need to limit other replicas because there's a normal debate going on, so to me, it's not acceptable, and we wrote in an explanation that this morning's debate in the Assembly is about breaks, promoters, one club and countless replicas. And that's one opinion that's logical, but if we're going to do that so that the morning debate can be reduced and the free debate of the motionor, the debate with the motionary, the clubs, and then the individual debate, there's no need to limit the number of replicas, the length of the replicas in the individual debate. That's exactly what an individual debate would do, give it popularity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72842	Time, Mr. Bauk. We continue with individual debates, the first Mr. Bulj from the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72844	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to welcome these colleagues who haven't been to this part of the session since 11:30. I asked for a break here and, of course, I put Band-Aids on my mouth, because this Rules of Procedure is meant to reduce the rights of parliamentary representatives, but not the right to, but freedom of speech. To reduce freedom of speech. And that's where I felt before, I was also Mr. Deputy Secretary, with a group of MPs from the HDZ, so they told me a little annoyingly, it's over today. There's no more talking about the Cetitian End, no more talking about energy crime, no more talking about a number of problems for farmers, a number of problems that I open up every morning. Because they say you talk too much. As much as we have problems, I think I'm not talking too much. So, fellow MPs, this wasn't a battle for us, because if it was for us, then we would be asked to change our rules of procedure, not to speak at all. And it would be much more correct, if most of them, when they hit the minority, when they hit the freedom of speech, it would be much more correct, it would be human if they said, here's the thing. You travel from far away, I from Sinj, I need 1,500 kuna to pay me travel expenses, there, let's be correct, it's a unnecessary cost, if I'm going to come by 2, 3 replicas here, when you're going to tell me, when I'm going to tell, who I'm going to tell and how to say. That is, that was done by Andrej Plenkovic, on a proposal, when the debate on the European Council was held, i.e. His report here, he put pressure on it, so it can't go on. But Parliament is the centre of democracy. With these changes, here are 25 hours here, already, 26 that I am in Parliament and from that moment on, as my colleague Grumoja said, 7 representatives of the Bridge, 2 representatives of the SDP, 2 representatives of the Living Wall, colleagues from the GLAS, all night she was here alone, defending her colors,... my club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we wanted to, we asked fellow MPs from the majority to transfer this debate by 9.30. The moment I was with a band-aid on my mouth, I felt that my colleagues from the majority were mocking, and then I took off the patch, and now you gentlemen will welcome the dawn, not the dawn, but there will be a debate the next day. So they just promoted the problems of banning free speech. I feel the need in this individual debate to say that I have been chosen by the voters of my area and that I have the right to speak and I call on you HDZ colleagues to fight for the rights of both minorities and the majority. We are MPs who must exercise our views, face our views, sometimes we make mistakes sometimes and get angry, all of this is human, but the people chose us, the people chose us. Who's going to determine why there's no break in the morning at 9:30? What's the problem? What's the problem? We don't have a break. Believe me, I couldn't have opened up the problem of the washing thermal power plant, I couldn't have opened that problem. It's best they put it in at 1:00 a.m. Well, it would be much fairer for this Rules of Procedure than they planned, and I'm going to read it now, but, uh... The freedom of speech is reduced as well. So I mentioned yesterday and the journalists, regardless of the worldview, Tihomir Dujmovic, it's forbidden to speak to him, Maya North, too,... who was the Most Attacked Most We stood in his protection, for he only said one more word against HNS leader Vrdoljak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it hadn't been for pressure, it would have driven him off the public service, the television, and he'd have attacked the Bridge neatly, and the man rightly made his arguments, although I disagree. It's democracy, or why it doesn't transmit, for the first time this Parliament, so the people can hear what we're talking about on HTV. But, of course, it will be in the earliest term of Plenkovic and Massari. The missionaries who must provide him with most in the future, under cover I don't know what names, but that's what we'll talk about when the time comes every morning and every morning. Yet fellow Members, we must keep to the dignity of this House, sometimes we are who we are and in other Parliaments there are stronger words, we do not have to agree, but we must fight together. And last night, these 10, 12 parliamentary deputies endured this measure, that even now the debate on the Rules of Procedure, but not on the Rules of Procedure, because that our goal is to fight for us, that we support this Rules of Procedure, which is proposed by the majority, but it is an interesting silence, minority, minority representatives within the majority. I'm sorry I didn't... The great Democrats, the Social Democrats, Milorad Pupovac, who always defends minority rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, the majority terrorises the minority, and the minority is a determining factor of power. Well, let the minority be manifested. Nothing here is disputed, which a colleague here just said. The minority currently in the Republic of Croatia is deciding on the majority in parliament. I'm sorry that no one came out of that club and in this case, when the rights of freedom of speech are threatened, that they didn't step forward and say, so my people, so you'll be a minority tomorrow, I don't know what's going to happen, someone else is going to sit here. But, uh... This is reduced freedom of speech, which has been reached in the Croatian Parliament. And they wanted to get away in the middle of the night, briefly, because no one was represented by fellow MPs, of course, went home, but despite the struggle, for a democratic struggle within Parliament we were not elected and cannot prescribe that Mr. Proposer who is not here again. Last night, we had a problem with the business behavior in the Parliament because the promoter was and he chaired the session the whole time. Proposer and Chairman, it's unconstitutional,...at the Constitution. And those of you who are calling for the tribunal to protect the Rules of Procedure, and against the Rules of Procedure, he worked. Where's Mr. Reiner now? I ask you to answer my questions, the knight of Jerusalem's grave, the academic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament has not given me a single word. So the people chose us, we don't want to get along, why should we get along in everything. But our voter, our people of my place, I know the Dalmatian burns, the flat wheels, like expected me to open up themes, they expect me to. You can say Miro Bulj like this, Miro Bulj like this, but surely these academics and political elites have led the state to manage, Miro Bulj would not even be the chairman of the local board, believe me that he would neither engage in politics nor through activists, nor later come to the Croatian Parliament alone. So this patch of Rules of Procedure, as I called it last night, which is a reflection of the backdrop in democratic freedom of speech, I expect that the minorities most depend on will also support the minority opposition from the majority's coercion. I expect you to answer, no voice. But in a small state the tribune hold like a drop in the palm of a minority. The minority decides most in this case very symbolic, great pressure to reduce the right of speech. The speech must not be prohibited by a parliamentary representative, i.e. reduce rights and work a pattern when we talk, what we talk about, when we talk about what topic. Of course it suits Plenkovic because he is too good with Juncker, too much of the time to spend we must not ask him what he has from these relations, what the Croatian state has from these relations of kindness and great relations with Juncker. There's nothing absolutely, there's nothing because we can't declare an economic belt not to exclude the economic belt from coming into the process for a year and two months. So the numerous legal initiatives that were to be opened at the bottom are. I would ask you fellow MPs, freedom of speech is the greatest democratic value. Lettering and freedom of speech, if we prohibit it then there is no point in this House being a Parliament anymore. Let it be a Brusselsian as we will call it the Juncker Parliament headed by Andrej Plenkovic... Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72845	Time. I can't answer what you said about minorities. I would advise you to wait for the representatives to be present here, to address them by name, wait for them to be present, and then contact them. We have several replicas, and the first breach of the Rules of Procedure was sought by Mr. Grmoy. However, I am told that he does not have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure because he has asked for an opinion from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to submit an application for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and Article 236 says that, given that the representative of Nikola Grmoy has not submitted a traffic request within such a specified time limit as is seen in the phonogram of the 7th session, etc., in accordance with the provisions of Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament lost the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by the end of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. That's what they tell me, and that's what I have to respect. Mr. Bully, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72846	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would say that the 233 Rules of Procedure have been injured, because at this point, we don't have a proposing, so it's absolutely unserious. And last night we only knew all night, we had until one age when Mr. Milijan Brkic replaced both the promoter and the chairman in character and the work of the knights of the academic vice president of the Parliament of Reiner. So we've been doing anti-business all the time, so this should really fall in the Constitutional Court. This is unserious, I'm sorry he's not here as spokeswoman for the beauty ministry Mr. Bacic in the Republic of Croatia to explain the situation. Who will now be the chairman of the Assembly if the authorising officer is on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, Mr Reiner? He was the only authorized even to be offered by his colleague Bauk that he would be not allowed instead is a member of the Board of Rules, and there was a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72847	Thank you, time. Mrs. Jelkovac, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72848	Thank you very much, Vice President. So my colleague Bulj hurt Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, because what he stated, is that he would demean Mr Reiner, and it is not true that he does not have a representative because he was subsequently determined that my colleague Simic and I are also representatives of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72849	Thank you very much. Okay, then we've solved this situation. He's got a proposal because he's got more proposings. Mr. Panenic, you asked for the word, but sooner we'll give you the replicas then I'll give you the word. Okay? We have a few replicas, okay? You agree. Thank you. No, no, you just raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72850	If I may take a break but you've changed the rules so far there's been some exposure we could look for, so now I'd ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72851	A flat or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72852	Stanku.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72853	I ask you, let us have replicas, allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72854	I'm just saying that the rules we had during the entire debate have been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72855	It hasn't changed, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72856	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72857	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72858	I would ask for a break right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72859	Take a break right now? And whose injury to the Rules of Procedure was it? In the meantime, Mr. Petrov has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, and then after that, I'll give you a break, please. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72860	I would really like to warn the chairperson of Article 233 or to officially appoint who is the representative. At the moment, Mr Reiner, vice-president of the Parliament, is representing the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72861	What does the arm mean? Stanka too? Stanka? ... But first he asked for the same thing as you, first he asked for Mr. Panenic, so I say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, sir. Okay, as regards what you have now asked Mr Petrov, this document says so, to the President of the Croatian Parliament, the subject of the Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on Amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament with the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure of Supplement of the Proposer. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system for rapporteurs at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies has appointed other than the academics Željko Reiner, the chairman of the Committee, Marija Jelkovac and Marko Simic as members of the Committee. Is that what it says? A writes No, May 2nd, March 2nd, [[Intruder: May 2nd.]] Good morning, March 2nd. ... [[Intruder: March 2nd.]] Wait, wait, don't get up before I give you my word, Mr. Bull, don't. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Now I'll give you, wait, wait. Do you have a deal? Okay. Has he already had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull? No, it's fine, Mr. Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72862	Further infringement of Rules of Procedure 233, if it is now recorded at this morning's committee meeting, means that it has admitted that during the debate on this agenda, it has been against business. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that the Rules of Procedure are respected and that you explain who the other person is because he is in law, i.e. In the bill of law that was on our desk the rapporteur in front of the board is the only Mr Reiner and the new proposal we don't have, we don't. So I'm going to find the document now, he was not here now, so print it, or I'm going to bring it from the club and I'm going to go public, and I'm going to read it to you right now: "...reported the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies the Committee has approved the academicist Željko Reinera, president of the Committee." Point. Point. So this is a confession that you've been sitting counter-businessly all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72863	Thank you. I don't know what you were doing last night but the document is currently this one. Mrs. Nincevic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72865	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, I wanted to say the same thing that my colleague Bulj said, we've been standing here for 26 hours, so that this kind of change happens without anyone telling us about it. So do we really look like crazy around here? And everything you say and nod your head and pretend like this will go away, that we'll forget about it. We won't because we've been here 26 hours and you're only an hour. 26 hours. 26 hours we warn that it is against business, that one person is both the chairman and the promoter, and then behind the back of all the MPs who have been there for 26 hours make such a change that none of the MPs who have been there for 26 hours are informed of it. I'd be ashamed to sit in your seat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72866	Meanwhile, the chief promoter has come and we are moving forward with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute. You are looking for a break safely if you raise your hand and the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been sought by Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to, so Article 229 was injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which says the session of the Parliament is chaired by the President of the Parliament when he is absent or prevented from sitting as chair of one of the vice-presidents of the Parliament. The meetings as guests can be attended by all those invited by the President of the Parliament. At the session can give a speech and a foreign statesman... as a guest at the invitation of the President of the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you, Mr. Vice President, do not lead, do not preside, so there is no knowing who drinks and who pays more, in which order you give your word when someone asks for the Rules of Procedure. So what about that break of colleagues, Panenic? I think let us know a little order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72868	Look, I'm not sure I understand what you're saying, but whoever's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure has a championship on those who are looking for a break. Well, the way I see someone who's been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give him my word if that's the answer you're looking for. Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72870	The Honorable Chairman did not answer for a break, I wanted to say something if possible, since my colleague came to the club for a break, I would ask only one thing to warn you, I would like you to give, if any interpretation of how the second decision has been made today in front of the members of the Rules of Procedure Committee took part in making such a decision and how the document came to you at all. Since we were not familiar with this Committee document, the rapporteur was only Mr Reiner until this morning. All of a sudden, new reporters appeared and members of the same committee were not familiar with it. I would really warn of violations and democracy and parliamentaryism Absolutely everything in the Croatian Parliament and that is actually what you are trying to do the last 14 hours. Thank you. [[But first let's see how it came and all that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72871	Mr. Petrov, I'm outside of all the business provisions for you, I mean in honor of you being president of the Parliament's former, I gave you my word because some things don't need to be written in the Rules of Procedure, some things are understood. The document has come to me now from Mrs Jelkovac, but we have here a Mr. Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system that can and as a proposing inform us of all this if you allow it. Here you go, sir. You can come here, please. ... What, a break? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'll do it now, I'll do it. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72872	Here's because the vice president gave me his word, and he said like this, first of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, actually a representative of the motion should not be present at all, that's one thing. The second thing, I was as you know or you don't know, you were sleeping for that time, and your colleagues were there, and I was here the whole time and the third one was here this morning before I called a phone session, all the members were informed of what could have happened, most of them could have come and most of them accepted that apart from me that I wouldn't have to be really here and not to sleep like you could afford, that they were also colleagues Jelkovac and fellow Simic representatives of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72873	I'll give everyone my word. The first was Mr. Bull's, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72874	Article 238 238, Article 238, infringements by the chairman of the board and the promoter that three or four were present here from the HDZ on shift, two pardons, 7 from the Most, two from the SDP, one from the GLAS and two colleagues from the Living Wall. [[/Intruder Radin: Which one?]] It's a fact and it's true and you've woken up from the bed of another vice president, Mr. Millian Brkic, to come back here to be a business acquired condition that you can continue the session. Yeah, yeah, you called him and you waited for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72875	Mr. Petrov was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72876	I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know which way, but here's the thing, if you want a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 238. I'll just tell Mr. Rainer for a little while, I haven't offended him in any way, I've asked him to explain to me how this new document came about, and I'm absolutely clear. Those who wanted the ruling position to call the phone, for the chili majority were called and brought the document and for the others, the phone line was broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72877	Thank you very much. I don't know that. I slept like you did last night. Now we move on to Mr. Bull's replicas. Mr. Bull here? Yeah, okay. If you remember what he said first was Mr. Grbin, I hope he remembers what he wanted to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72879	Very well respected, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. Article 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has laid down the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and one of them is a democratic multiparty system. Politology as a science that studies political relations but also relations in society knows very clearly that the democratic multilateral system does not exist without a democratic and open parliamentary system. And the parliamentary system, as the name itself says, rests on freedom of speech because the name of parliament comes from the old French word parlara or tell it to you. And what about this proposal from the Rules of Procedure? Significant restrictions are proposed to prevent parliamentary deputies from being free of speech. And that's exactly the problem with this document, and that's what I'd call a potential unconstitutional act, because if we're talking about a democratic multiparty system, then we need to be aware that especially when you're looking from the perspective of the ruling democratic multiparty system, it means making decisions harder because when you're ruling, you want everything to run smoothly, that everything goes quickly, that no one stops you, that no one touches you. But democracy doesn't work. Democracy isn't a perfect system, far from it, it has a bunch of flaws, but there's no better system than that. And its functioning is guaranteed precisely in the freedom that you and I who actually agree on little about it have the opportunity to tell each other what we think is wrong in our observations. Are we going to change our minds after that? It doesn't matter, we might, from time to time, but we have to have opportunities because of us and those who chose to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72880	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72881	Well, this is exactly the Band-Aid that suggests most essentially is what you said freedom of speech already achieved the right of freedom of speech that we have at this point is reducing the parliamentary MPs that the people have chosen... parliamentary democracy, multilateralism, and of course any reduction in freedom of speech is a blow to the democratic system, that is. to parliamentary democracy. Whether or not we agree on some things less important, but Parliament is the one where it is discussed, but most in this case doesn't fit if we get on their nerves because we have a break in the morning and we open up life issues. So the citizens pay us as you said the very word speech comes out of parliamentaryism, we are the ones who need to speak, propose, face, debate and come up with some decisions. Most of course want it to go smoothly, the minority wants to set what it needs, which is its role to point out, criticise, propose amendments, laws. But this is essentially the blow that that being carried under the radar in the middle of the night. And it was rightly offered to most of them to withdraw the proposal and to have a debate today from nine o'clock. This wasn't a circus they wanted to show, this was a fight for freedom of speech, because we're not gonna be eternal parliamentary representatives, tomorrow someone else will be. Parliamentary democracy is not the imposition of the terror of the majority, but parliamentary democracy is the right to freedom of speech, but they are used to defending and speaking to journalists, i.e. who are in the media, mostly on HTV, and that's why they lose jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72882	I don't understand the arm. ... Let us finish the replicas only then I'll give you a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72883	No, there's time. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club to talk about a dangerous experiment that threatens Rijeka Bay, a floating LNG terminal that is being pushed by the government with absolute ignoring of the local community's views and a superseded consensus has been reached that seeks to resist this denial of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72884	Thank you very much. I give you my word so you won't say you took the word without me giving you my word. Now I give you my word, so it's complete. You want us to finish our lines and then you want to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72885	No, I'm looking for a break right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72886	How can he not right now? ... Can't, no, don't say there, break, can you talk right now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you want it now? Please speak immediately. Here you go. ... Then I'll do one thing now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll continue with the replicas and then I'll give you my word on my responsibility. Another replica, Mr. Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72888	On my responsibility, sue me with the Constitutional Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72889	I'm not giving up my replica, because this is how you actually broke the Rules of Procedure, I mean, it says that the replica is given... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72890	You don't remember what you wanted to replicate, you mean, that's what you're saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72891	No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72892	You're replicating the bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72893	I know, but I'm giving up on Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72894	And you're giving up, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72895	I'm giving up and you're breaking the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72896	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72897	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bulj, first of all I thank you and your colleagues who have been here all night, and thanks to that, you have made it possible for the public to see what is going on and through their TV applications. It is a big thing for Croatia, to see how it is here in the Croatian Parliament, trying to bring down the demographic system, how it tries to prevent representatives of Croatian people and Croatian citizens from talking about topics that are not on the agenda. Because what's this about? The topics on the agenda are topics that are ongoing and need to be discussed. But why are there breaks? They exist first of all, because we would all talk about what is driving Croatian citizens at a certain point. I communicate daily with hundreds of people every day. I communicate with them via social networks, e-mails and cell phones. A hundred people communicate with me every day. I answer 30 very important questions every day about the illegal business of banks. I haven't changed since I got here, I've been doing everything I've done before I became a representative. Croatian citizens, whose rights I represent, may be a difficult word, expect me to talk here in the assembly about what is pressuring them. And this draft proposal of the Rules of Procedure, if voted as it is, will totally kill what I serve here in the Croatian Parliament. I've suggested some amendments, if they're proposed, they'll be fine. Well, thank you for letting me talk about it, while the daylight is bright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72898	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72899	Thank you very much, colleague Alexic. Well, you're just taking a break to mention the one where you and we Parliamentarians, everyone, and you said because of our citizens' problems with the illegal actions of banks that our citizens literally led to a breakdown is the basis of the problem most of them, they don't want us to talk about it. That is the problem, which they have achieved for us the right freedom of speech, which we now have in the Rules of Procedure want to reduce i.e. They want to literally, so I said, here, all of us citizens are paying you, we're elected and we have paid, travel expenses, so if they cut this out this way, so you could go one more step further and say that by email we vote either by text or bring 151 dolls to buy and vote in distance, they need a pattern. They would like us to have you two replicas, you have regardless of whether you agree or disagree, but your struggle is exactly that pause, your replica, your proposal legally, which will not come very hard in the procedure, you have to beg them so you have, to testify that you have collected enough signatures, more than 76 for a legal proposal. When it came to vote, there was no vote. And it's in the interest of citizens against those who terrorise... And that's the bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, their goal is because we get on their nerves, you get on their nerves, I get on their nerves, when Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic and I mention the Peruca thermal power plant, I need steel armor to defend myself. So we get on their nerves. And you, of course, have a lawyer's lobby here, a banking lobby, and that's how it works, right? But at least we showed this fight that we would fight to the pain, for freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72900	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you. Now he's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72901	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice, so all of a sudden, I'm gonna do it all so we don't waste too much time. First you hurt an officer. 248th and then Art. I'll start with Art. 236. 236. So, when an MP asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must approve him to speak as soon as he asks for it, given the moment I asked for it, you could not then give a word to a colleague of Alexic or a colleague of Bul, but you had to approve me to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure I wanted to talk about is the one relating to the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And he says, the president will approve a break, neither grammatically nor telelogically this article, this provision, this item, we cannot interpret in any other way than that, that the chairman must approve the break except, and there is an article. 249 if you haven't gotten any of these terms. Since he has not acquired any of the conditions of Article. In 249, you are obliged to approve a break requested by a colleague Jovanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72902	I'll answer you right now. Mr. Alexic had already started speaking, and we must give Mr. Bulj a chance to answer, to what Mr. Alexic was saying... And the other thing, we used to have replicas, we had a lot of replicas, and the first thing you'd say, the replicant was you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've given up on it, and you've accepted that you have replicas because you've requested breaks. After what, the ones who asked for a break were talking. The only thing that's normal is for those of you who've been looking for replicas since before, I've been giving replicas. And I've taken that responsibility, and I'm going to keep it until the end because it's replicas from before, not replicas from now on. Mr. Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you are the most active parliamentary representative in this Croatian Assembly, and it obviously bothers someone. It should also be said that the urgency of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is to improve as an efficiency of Parliament's work. The efficiency of the Parliament's work can be improved in a completely different way. The parliament can start early, the number of vacations can be shortened, the number of working days increased, and we will get the same efficiency, but with this, the way the Rules of Procedure changes efficiency increases by reducing replicas and abolishing breaks. So please explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72904	Thank you, Mr. Sladolev. Mr. Bull, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72905	Thank you very much. Well, I'd agree with the part. Indicators say the most active. I believe that I should have spoken even more because it is the obligation of a parliamentary representative to speak, but how much is the problem from the lowest levels to the highest in the Republic of Croatia and from demographic measures and corruption and crime, that we should speak much more, and especially from those areas where we come from. Those were the most common breaks. So, demographic problems, forgotten endings, mountainous landscapes and, of course, other topics where I felt like getting involved in the speech. Of course, we're also making legal suggestions. However, there will be no exclusive economic band, regardless of the Council of Europe's recommendation, because we are, because most do not respond, regardless of the convention... The UN will not come up with three preferential votes because it does not match the political elites, as many would not pass who are party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a number of our activities that are out of this House and with the citizens so I get a day, here's my colleague Alexic said, hundreds of e-mails each of us. Yesterday on the issue of household law and one complicated problem. And other problems. And of course we bother them. They're in the way of the apartment. Because how are you going to open up the HNS problem, how are we going to open up topics about agriculture and problems in Slavonia, in the economy, how are we going to open these problems? Concessions of beaches, public goods, concessions of water sources. How are we gonna do this? We need to be silenced, we're getting on their nerves. So remember Martin Dalic's reaction, Wait a minute, this is the prime minister's question here... [[/Intruder: Thank you, sir.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72906	Mr. Bunjac, come in. No, Panenic first. Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72907	Thank you very much. Dear, esteemed Representative Bulja. Of course the intensity that you represent your voters here, it's something that's always shown up and statistics talk about it. Of course, that communication must be intense, because of what we do as an opposition, how much they accept by ruling, very, very little. So you just have to create that kind of pressure that you'd even like to hear and accept maybe one piece, so that we can say as an opposition we managed to impose something. Well, here we go tonight. What happened? Yet the second vice president came, took charge of the assembly. This morning, however, a parliamentary committee was held, and a new document was delivered. Two promoters, so Mr. Reiner doesn't have to suffer alone anymore. So you can still hear it. But the way this is going, we can expect next time that we probably won't even have to come here, but we'll send an email just because it's our opinion, so it'll be put in a fail-safe somewhere to make it even less heard and then there won't be any of these costs. You will not have to come here or live there, nor travel and the best way to imagine that HDZ would want Parliament to work, everyone at home and just send it to the public, put it in the archive, and that is definitely the way we will do our duty, and there will be no political damage, nor will there be a need to know about the things your citizens, my citizens, built throughout the Republic that once truly get one-one support, which is when the representative who comes from their territory addresses Croatia and presents the problems that a group of people who are seared by a group of people, who no one in state institutions recognizes and who have a lot of problems in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72908	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72909	My colleague Panenić, I would agree, so most of these Rules of Procedures want to do standard, that everyone, even I think, in their evaluations of parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the board, Mr Reiner, would exactly unify us as soldiers that we speak exactly and prescribed when they report, who they report to, at what time, which the minister will send us an inquiry and so on. In parliamentary democracy, however, this cannot go to multilaterals. This is a direct blow to freedom of speech, and we are only chosen by our voters to represent them, to speak, to propose and to fight. It's our only tool compared to most. Most have executive instruments and, of course, to Prime Minister Plenkovic when he comes from Brussels from his friend Juncker, who does great things for the Republic of Croatia, we see as Savudrija has been solved, as many others, exclusively economic belts, very important things, except that he is good with him, I see no results. He's not comfortable with us asking him a question and a number of questions, but he'll limit us. You're right about three replicas. And then for so much cost and so many problems that the state pays us and our citizens have made us a pattern of how we have to behave. If that's multi-party, if it's democracy, if it's freedom of speech, if that's what we're looking for, then that's Brussels represented by Plenkovic. He is more representative of normally Brussels interests than Croatian. If it's the obsolescence, then we're really triangulating as soon as we can get away from those ouses. Well, a journalist on HTV must not mention ruling leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72910	Time. Why did you lift the line, sir? Okay. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72911	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. So here I am interested in why the Rules of Procedure is being introduced into the Croatian Parliament which punishes those representatives who do something? So I expected that measures would be taken here so that those MPs that we never see here would be encouraged to work, which never appeared not only for individual debate but even for replication. It's sad for me to know that I have my colleagues in the Parliament by whom I could pass on the street and I wouldn't recognize him as being my colleague, and at least I would know what they're called because he's never here. And now instead of encouraging such MPs to work, so if you want to sanction them, those MPs who come to the Parliament are sanctioned for something they want to say, who are ready to argue and who deserve their pay. Imagine the situation that Parliamentarians have a 90-day vacation, so every little break for another 15 days like we had in February, so we'll have another Easter, etc. So that week when the debate is only two-and-a-half days is debate, so Wednesday, Thursday and Friday before noon, which effectively gives a hundred days a year and the ruling cannot bear that in the hundreds of days that represent maybe 30% of the calendar year, something is being discussed and that something is being done. They're basically sending a message. Don't come at all. The Parliament is irrelevant. It is only important on Friday to raise our hands to confirm the government's decisions, which is nothing more than a dog on a chain of Brussels and other centres of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72912	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72913	Comrade Bunjac, it is the guilty who are coming and those who are doing their job in this House because they are too active. They don't think like most people, it's a big problem, they don't think like them. So we'd tribals not to talk about the problems of the example you're talking about the problems of monetary policy, the problems of completed, the problems that I'm dealing with, and I'm talking about the problems that I'm talking about. So it doesn't suit them to talk about it in breaks. We're making them nervous. It's a key problem. And imagine a parliamentary democracy that changes the Rules of Procedure so MPs can't open up questions. Here I opened the question of courts the other day, the new Law on Court Accommodation, thermal power plants, a number of other issues. The question has been opened and a government has fallen here in the event of a conflict of interest, in the case of consultants. So questions are being raised by parliamentarians asking questions, asking for answers, and in particular a minority. But you guys are not talking to Bunjac, that's what we're talking about. We talk too much. Tribba forbids us a speech. But freedom of speech is what we have to fight for, no matter what we agree, we disagree. We agree more than we disagree, sometimes we don't, but we need to communicate, we need to express the views of our fellow citizens, our voters, and at all protect our national interest for what we have sworn. Some fellow MPs only said I swear, and even from my neighborhood, there was one HDZ parliamentary representative in his term for four years who had only one announcement. Please close the window so the draft doesn't kill me, and my Sanjani Dalmatians will know what a draft is. He fought so much for interests in the former mandates, in the former mandates for the interests of Sinj, the Cetin area, the Dalmatian Zagora And now I'm in the way of you, of course. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72914	Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72915	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Bulj, everything you have said is right and I would like to begin by thanking you and the other MPs who have debated here all night and made it possible for us to actually discuss today the amendments of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which is a de facto fundamental document of democracy regulation in the highest House of Democracy. At least that's how it should be. I will ask you a specific question from the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament article 235 says: "The representative can have up to three replicas per item of the agenda." I wonder why the representative should only have three replicas per item of the agenda, when we have, for example, five, six, seven debates of the Clubs of Representatives. Isn't that a restriction on democracy? And finally, according to which model, according to which parameters, MPs are determined to have the right to only three replicas according to the agenda point. So is that crazy I'm asking you? So is that crazy, because we as MPs can't express consent or disagree with certain debates that are on the agenda, but only three. Three disagreements or disagreements. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72916	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72917	Comrade Schibol, of course it's even unclear that there's a motion here, a committee and a Mr. Reiner. Here we don't have it in front of the promoter, who else is this morning we found out, I don't even know who the other one is. We have no explanation to limit it to three replicas. I have to come from Sinj 400 kilometers and come back to assess who to give three replicas to. So they punish those who wish to replicate, show, improve. Well, someone's going to say speeches... but in their mind we don't do well those who are active by their lices and we have to adapt to their ovaries, so says academics Reiner Vice President of the Parliament. Maybe he thinks it's the student department to be on his hooks. The exact pattern of 3 replicas pass 800 km from Sinj or you from Rijeka or colleagues from Slavonia is the restriction of freedom of speech. This is the most embarrassing thing that can happen in the free Republic of Croatia. It's a blow to the Constitution. A ban on speaking to parliamentary deputies. But this majority again mentions holding a minority. So the minority is part of the government. And in this case, as part of the rule, the minority is silent. I'm interested in the position of fellow Pupovec Social Democrats, free speech fighter, at least he's theatrical when he's here and makes a good impression on his speeches. I can't hear that voice. I don't hear that voice and this three replicas is a restriction of freedom of speech and that is why we have to fight and tell them gentlemen you won't, which is under the orders of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72918	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Thank you. Mrs. Voter. [[Intruder Bull: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You wondered why this Rules of Procedure was being taken away from the right to speak to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So the right to speak to opposition MPs is taken away, which is quite clear why. So this government is indecisive, undecided in solving everyday human problems and simply aware of its inability to solve them, it cannot afford or refuses to allow these topics to open in the Croatian Parliament especially in terms which I dare say the most visible, and these are the morning terms as we have so far had parliamentary breaks. But it doesn't need to be surprised, we don't need to be surprised about it. We simply have ministers in this government who want to edit the Croatian Radio Television Programme. We have a prime minister against whom if you write anything on the Internet the next day you'll be brought in immediately by the police. So if you're not ready to clap on a beloved leader who runs the country, you'll get a Band-Aid and you'll be denied the right to talk about it. I don't think we remember such a twilight of democracy in some of the times that very often the coalition's representatives propose such a Rules of Procedure show. However, they forget about the fact that actually killing messengers will not solve the problem of their incompetence and visibility of the fact that they do nothing good for Croatia and that they do not actually find themselves in the role that the citizens have entrusted them with, which is to manage this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72920	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72921	Well, most in this case are not aware that by limiting freedom of speech to MPs, the national representatives in the largest body of parliamentary democracy, it is in this case in the Croatian Parliament that in fact they shot themselves in the leg because it is a fact, so look at the limits you say three replicas. How many MPs are there? 150. How long will it take for an employee to count which one of us gave two, who's three, who's four, who's five, and this morning they forgot that Nikola Grmoya that he didn't say himself all night he's been raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure that he doesn't have the right to do so. So first of all, these are material costs because someone's going to have to count now two replicas, three or four. Secondly, it's a classic ban on speech. So that's freedom of speech threatened with freedom of speech. In Dubrovnik ancient times it was written by Libertas, the Freedoms End, and now in the Republic of Croatia we have fewer freedoms than during this Rules of Procedure than during Austro-Hungarian times, during the Kingdom, during the former Yugoslavia of the old and former. So we have an absolute attempt at banning minority speech. So this is terror over most of the speech, and our voters chose us to talk, so not just that. Let's remember HTV where Tihomir Dujmovic, where Maja Sever, where this journalist who is because he doesn't miss his last name because of Vrdoljak, is a man who lost his job, so he's under pressure no matter what on the daily basis attacked the Bridge, we never said he should be removed, this should be done. It's a blow to democracy and the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72922	Thank you. Mr. Orepic doesn't have it, unfortunately. [[Upadica Bulj: Journalists, media and parliamentary representatives.]] All right, now we're gonna keep going like that. He'll get the first word, Mr. Maras. After his presentation, we'll give the opportunity for before the replicas we'll give the opportunity to pause and we'll have breaks of course and breaks. We'll have the stations, and they'll talk. Excuse me. The first one means Mr. Maras. You won't mind if I give Mr. Maras my word. Here you go. When's the vote, when's the vote? The vote will be later, no. Today. ... Wait, what do you want to keep Mr. Maras from talking? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72923	Thank you very much. I think it's a little misunderstanding, and somehow I always like this debate in the noise. It's a misunderstanding when there's going to be a vote, it will be after my debate or at the end of the whole debate. In the end, good. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it is clear to everyone now that it is essentially the move of the opposition that took place during the last evening and this morning, and it will continue during this day and during the vote on the Rules of Procedure because at this moment we have written more than 300 amendments, to try to show people from the position of HDZ, Mr Bačić, Plenkovic and society, that they simply cannot act as if they are the only ones concerned with how the Parliament will work. Also, I pray here for understanding and media that some understood what it was about, and some wrote that we only discussed ourselves, i.e. an act that regulates the work of the Croatian Parliament. Act of the Croatian Parliament, which is called the Rules of Procedure, regulates everything. So if you don't have a quality rules of procedure, you can't discuss pensions quality, new jobs quality, budget quality, social care, or anything. So, this was the moment when the opposition had to react in this way, that the HDZ people didn't manage, that Mr. Bacic walked in infidelity here for 2-3 hours, and then went to sleep, and after that, Reiner looked at us almost all night and who followed the session, and who didn't, can read in the media, slowly and didn't manage because at one point he didn't know what he was more – the promoter, the head of the session, only the representative, the chairman. The man was really confused, and until the second vice president of the Parliament came, which unfortunately we had to get out of bed, or HDZ had to get him out of bed, Mr. Miljan Brkic, there were a lot of strange and confusing scenes. What I'm saying is that the opposition, in my opinion, did the only thing she could, which is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia become aware, that all parties must function and work and work, and all parties must agree and work. This is not the Croatian Assembly only of HDZ and the SDP will never accept playing by the rules that HDZ has drawn. And you'll see it now and you'll see it in the future. If it happens that HDZ is deaf to these demands and isforsicating the Rules of Procedure as he imagined at the beginning, believe me, this is just the beginning. This is just the beginning. We're not gonna let you do whatever you want, there's gonna be a scene. You're playing with fire and I'm asking you to make a deal on how to function in a parliamentary and normal way. You cannot dictate to everyone how they will behave in the Croatian Parliament. [[- I'm begging you, please.]] You think maybe you can, but you'll see you can't. You saw tonight, you'll see today, you'll see when you vote on the Rules of Procedure that it can't work the way you imagined, and it won't work the way you imagined. If you are asking to shut down the debate in the Croatian Parliament in a way that breaks no longer exist, that the opposition cannot impose its topics, but that through the agenda, you can, please, calm down the MPs a little. I'm asking you gentlemen from HDZ, Mr. Radin said there will be no voting after my debate, so you can leave unless she's interested in you. [[/Intruder Furio Radin: I've asked for more times. Please.]] But don't interrupt when you're talking. ... So there's no need for you to sit down if you don't sit here and distract the MPs in their business. [[Intruder Radin: No, there will be a break sooner.]] I'm not the President of the Parliament, but... [[/Intruder Radin: Please proceed with the debate. Please don't pollemize.]] You're gonna tell me who's gonna be what, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] What are you, a fortune teller? [[But why? Why? Please, sir.]] No, I'm not, but since you're acting like one, you're probably a fortune teller, no. You're reading in a cup. I will, continue if you discipline Mikulić who throws rudely [[Intruder Radin: Will you continue the debate, please.]] So I don't think they're the ones before the '90s. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] So I think that people who have imagined that something is going to go the way they think they've been wronged a little bit, I think that now everyone is aware of it, and we call on SDP's Club to take a step back from HDZ and not to silence the opposition, so that the actuality of the issues that the opposition is doing day by day and day is not being choked by the work of the Parliament. As for the reduction of the number of replicas, I personally have the attitude that people should have the ability to replicate to everyone and in a way to replicate when they have something to say. This seems like some kind of game, a game. You have to keep a record of who you're going to replicate, how much, you have to assign MPs, tie them to each other. That's not the point of the debate in Parliament, and that's not democracy. So we call on HDZ once again, especially the author of Mr. Reiner's Rules of Procedure, to take a step back, to realize that Parliament is not their own polygon, to realize that they can't do what they want and what they want and to agree on how to function as it has been so far. I also want to say once again, this is how the Rules of Procedure was made, it was never in the Croatian Parliament, although Mr Reiner will say that the Rules of Procedure were brought in transparently, so quickly, this way over the knee things never broke in the Croatian Parliament. And, of course, that kind of action had to cause a reaction. As far as the SDP is concerned, we're ready, if yesterday at half past midnight, we're ready to stay all day today, if we have to, and so will be, unless the agreement on the Rules of Procedure is reached in a way that protects the standards of those we are looking for. And that is not to choke the debate in parliament, not to choke the opposition in parliament, not to force its will in the parliament and in some way to allow the Parliament to function democratically, as all other parliaments in the EU function. My colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, I think you have now seen that we will not look at what you are doing, I am glad that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have seen it, I am glad that the media have seen it, and I can tell you that from now on, the game in the Croatian Parliament will turn once again upside down. I therefore call on you once again, in the end, to accept the proposals sent from the Club of Representatives of the SDP, they are not malicious, they are done constructively, as we did with Lex Agrodor, as we do constantly in the Croatian Parliament, in order to have better functioning and better discussion and better discussion and ultimately, better Parliament and better laws. I hope you will accept this open message and call and show that you are not exclusive, but that you want to cooperate on the quality and work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72924	Thank you, too. And now listen carefully, because the sequel will be as follows. The first gave a breach to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Skibola, wait, now, after that, Mr. Jovanovic asked for a break and I saw two more hands, yes. You will say why and we will have a break or you will speak immediately. And then after that before the replica, not before the replica, as usual, and then after that we'll vote. Sir... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, let's move on, Mr. Skibola, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72925	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. In 238, Mr. Maras was not allowed to discuss in peace, but representatives from the HDZ threw them away, and you didn't warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72926	Should I warn them all or one by one? All together, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72927	We will now continue to work on the agenda point - Final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We stopped at the replicas. The first order of business was to be a colleague of the Bunjac. He's gone, so he loses his right. The second one's up, buddy Polninjak. He's not here either. The third one's up, fellow Jovanovic. He's not here either. But he's got a fellow Scipoli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72928	Dear President of the Parliament. Mr. Maras, I listened to your debate and I would also like to thank you for being here at the Croatian Parliament at night, arguing that we could discuss today. I'd like to ask you about some changes in the Rules of Procedure, how do you view that in the future we'll only have one minute for replication? On the other hand, the representative will be able to have up to three replicas per item of the agenda. These three replicas per item of the agenda are definitely limiting democracy. Because if we have five, six or seven club representatives who called for a debate, and you've only made three replicas de facto impossible for MPs to replicate every club of representatives who spoke. On the other hand, some of the other amendments to the Rules of Procedure are purely peripheral, but there is another change in Article 255(2) behind the word "lifting hands" is deleted and the word "namely". So there's a name-calling vote moving. Who's in the interest of moving a name-calling vote, why can't MPs stand behind their stand behind their stand as they vote? I don't think any MPs should be ashamed, because here we vote not for ourselves, but for the people, people sent us here and we're responsible for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72929	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72930	I agree with you. Who's in the interest of who? It is in the interest of HDZ, so all of these changes that have been made and that go after the limitation and number of replicas and minutes and everything that is related to the discussion in the assembly is the direct idea of the ruling party, or the ruling coalition, and what we can still do besides what we have done now is that we have sent almost 400 amendments in the procedure. And when the amendment debate is very clear, we will point out one thing at a time what and how we think HDZ is doing wrong. I'm sorry I don't see any small signs of will to make certain arrangements, but good. If this is the case with the HDZ people, then we will set ourselves up in the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, which means that as you know it is not exactly surgically accurate written in the Rules of Procedure all the way the MPs behave in the Assembly, so we too will have to deal with certain provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, and the President of the Parliament or the chairman. And what I said, I'm sorry that the HDZ colleagues didn't comply with these basic minimum demands the opposition asked for, it's really not much, but obviously the fight will have to go on, and I've also asked my colleague Bačić and Reiner not to play with the fire, but they decide to play with the fire, and then we'll play for the next weeks and months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72931	Let's move on. Next replica, respected counterpart Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72932	Thank you very much. Of course, here we are now in the second day of debate, fortunately so this interruption that we had to vote on has given us little opportunity to count down all those who have the courage to continue and tell the strength to continue this initiative. Of course, it is now important that we also conclude these policy discussions once again, and ultimately remain consistent with what we have said that this fatigue that is slowly overcoming us will not necessarily diminish our desire. So here's what I want your club to be persistent, and in the end, we can say that we've done some work together. Of course voting is something that we can't change but that those voters who recognize this initiative recognize that we can also fight for others, other rights of them, and I hope that we will continue to receive your support. I also hope that we can be a good partner in such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72933	My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72934	Thank you very much. So I think that today, or yesterday, for the first time in Croatia, such a thing happened that, as my colleague Bacic says unfortunately, they let them see everyone in Croatia as the opposition. He didn't exactly look like he had a concept of running around the pillars yesterday, though, but let's just believe that there was some intention. And I'm glad in the end that people saw that the opposition was able to stand up to this midnight snorkeling of HDZ, and so believe me, it will be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72935	Okay. Let's move on. Dear fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72936	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Maras, you're one of the MPs who often uses the replicas institute along with some of my other colleagues. So I think we're going to agree that this proposed new provision about limiting the replica to three times really doesn't make any sense. I don't see how anyone in the creation of this Rules of Procedure came to number three. What does that mean, then, that if we don't get along at some point that tells a total lie, we'll have to keep our mouths shut because we've fulfilled our quota? But what concerns me, too, is that I am running a club where the two presidents of the parliamentary committees are from the most thematic sessions, which is the Committee on Agriculture and the Health Committee, therefore, the most thematic sessions in this session, I am concerned that the thematic sessions cannot be called up unless the majority decides to do so. So it is contrary to some of the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, where 1/3 of the members can decide on the appointment and inclusion of certain points or the appointment of the session itself, so we cannot reach the the thematic session here unless we have the necessary support of most MPs. I think that these two so clumsyly in fact complex provisions have shown all the chaos and confusion in which this proposal of the Rules of Procedure was drawn up, whose most important aim was to make it impossible for MPs to speak. And then when they were focused on that goal, then they stopped following a healthy logic and made this proposal as bumpy as Swiss cheese might say. Well, no wonder there's nothing to discuss all night, which I thank you once again to the MPs who did it and helped us come here fresh and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72937	My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72938	Thank you very much. It is evident that people have adapted the Rules of Procedure only that they cannot adapt their representatives to the Rules of Procedure, and that is what I can say immediately at the beginning. So they can adapt... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can do that injure the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So they adapted the Rules of Procedure to themselves, but they cannot adapt all MPs in the Croatian Parliament to their Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I can see that we're going to spend the next few months in outwitting, in activities to present our ideas. I hope that doesn't start with the escalation and application of the repression in the Parliament. I've had enough Pitomo as my colleague Reiner looked to me the last few days. I don't know if it's just a scam from fellow Simic until the new Rules of Procedure is adopted to show his true face. Because yesterday he was like a lamb. He did not even show a small sign of aggression that he had in the previous months quite often. So I hope that's not the case. Because if that's the case, then next month we're going to have some very intense accounts that I hope won't look like the ones that Pernar went through a year ago. But this kind of application of the Rules of Procedure where they will limit our work, believe me, it won't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72939	Let's move on. Dear colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72940	I'd like to repeat my colleague's words from yesterday's presentation. He said at one point: "Every country has a government, but only democracy has an opposition at the end." Because as the Parliamentary Assembly resolution says, "The democratic quality of parliament is measured by means of available opposition. Third, the political opposition in parliament outside it is an important component of a well-functioning democracy." And the ruling voiced this amendment to the Rules of Procedure as an argument that their amendment to the Rules of Procedure will actually lead to greater democracy. So I don't understand how they intend to increase democracy by suspending our morning breaks by cutting out the number of replicas, by eventually having the thematic sessions on committees not being able to call on the presidents, but just as they bought most of them? Just in case we had a phone session for the Rules Committee, the political system and the Constitution in the end, only those people who would approve them would call. So suddenly the rapporteurs for this agenda point can be two more people, and we MPs have never seen that document at all, let alone that we participated as members of that same committee in that decision. Because apparently the phone lines were broken at that point this morning. I am now only interested in your assessment of such a way of managing, proposing laws and your assessment of whether there has been a change in the generations of political systems in the Republic of Croatia in the past 70 years on our right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72941	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72942	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I can see that no one has responded yet but I must, we don't have a motionary again 233 is a injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72943	We do. Dear Mary...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72944	We don't. Look at the materials of the Constitution Committee. What my colleague Jelkovac is waving her hand is nice, but it doesn't matter. It means the promoter is exclusively Mr. Podolnjak. That's what it says in the materials where the Rules of Procedure is. So he's the only one who's authorized to represent and perform here. How? [[... The Intruder doesn't understand]] Excuse me, Rainer. And I think as long as we've been here for 40 and a few hours will be soon so, on that side of fellow Reiner is the one who's proposed him gone. Look at the materials. Do you have any materials?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72945	So there's two things. First of all, there doesn't have to be an applicant present, that's one thing. And the other thing, by the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, is that there are two other people who can, or representatives, who can speak. I don't know when, but I got that information. [[(...) The Intruder doesn't understand)]] My colleague Jelkovac and my colleague Simic, so that's it. But even if he didn't, he didn't have to. No Marko Šimić, colleague Marko Šimić. [[... The Intruder doesn't understand]] So, even if it wasn't done by a colleague, Reiner doesn't have to be there all the time. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure and I won't give you a warning. You may have made it unconscious. You want more response to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72946	So nobody knows this information except you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72947	No, so now my colleague Petrov knew about this information. Now he said he knew.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72948	Okay, then he'll react later. But first let me get back to this...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72949	Well, you said so. No, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Come on, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72950	Your Honor, I used the information that the chairman of your office gave us without showing any documents, and now I'm going to tell you again. We did not see that document, we did not participate in that decision, members of the minority in the Croatian Parliament were not called, we do not know in what way, when and who made that decision and how. We've been warning about that for several hours. We were just read from your paper because it didn't show up, that there were other reporters added, and Mr Reiner's explanation was that they did it while others were sleeping. So now I don't know when it was called, what time, was it 3:00 in the morning, was it at the end of the phone session, maybe it was a phone session? But I think it's our turn, so if we don't get the material shared, at least we should say here when it was and who was doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72951	Here I asked the Committee to deliver this, but let's go, the measure is that the applicant's representative should not be present all the time when the debate on the point for which he is proposing is. Comrade Maras, would you like a likely reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72952	Yes, yes, thank you very much. My colleague, here you have said fellow Petrov, a few things, I am convinced that de facto academic Rainer was sacrificed here by HDZ because I am sure that so much indemocracy would not be exposed and for the sake of his future career as president of the Croatian Parliament Gordan Jandroković. So fellow Reiner took on his shoulders all of what you said and this intransparent addition of two people who are now as rapporteurs of the Committee on the Constitution, these things you mentioned regarding the amendments to the Rules of Procedure because otherwise, because he would certainly have been quite working fellow Jandrokovic with us spent the whole night here. He was conscious, so he wanted to be here, he spent the whole night participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament, but knowingly he wasn't here probably watching TV or You Tube Channel of the Croatian Parliament at home as your colleague Reiner does the job for him. So I'm sure he would have been here if he wanted that political responsibility on his shoulders that probably would have cost a fellow Reiner a lot of credibility in the future. In this case, Jandrokovic's credibility paid for his credibility as a colleague, Reiner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72953	Interesting analysis. They tell me that you received a decision from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as is the custom because the papers were lifted a few months ago. So you check that out, does that happen? It is. Let's move on. Dear colleague Strenja Linic is not present, so she loses her right. He's also a respected colleague of Leonard's, and he's not here, so he can't replicate either. We're moving on to the next individual debate. It's a colleague of Goran Aleksic's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72954	Thank you for giving me your word. But I also thank the colleagues who were on duty here, because if they hadn't been on duty, I wouldn't have gotten a word. This morning, I was told to arrive at the Assembly immediately by half past nine, so I could speak in my individual discussion. That's from half past 9 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., a dream has arrived on time, and now I can say something about this draft of the Rules of Procedure that I consider to be a repression of democracy. What's this about? I will again be constructive as usual, I have invested four amendments and I think if these amendments were accepted in order to significantly reduce the possibility of abuse of the Rules of Procedure and at the same time to dynamic the debate and I think it would be acceptable for everyone if these amendments were accepted. Well, I'll talk about the amendments first. So to reduce the number of replicas to three by one is a direct attack on democracy. Namely, there are points that are close to a representative, interesting which he believes are important for Croatian society, for Croatian citizens, and there are points that are not so important that are purely technical. And now that I'm on my own, I'm most concerned with consumer protection, above all consumers of financial institutions' services, and then when such topics are on the agenda, I have a lot to say. And now you're going to stop me from replicating when someone's saying something, and I have arguments and I can say it's justified that what someone's saying is simply not true. You'll stop me from doing that. So, in order to avoid this prevention of speaking in the right democratic way, I suggested that instead of limiting replicas to 3 pieces, they do not have a total limit. I suggested that the replica be reduced to 90 seconds and I suggested that the reply be reduced to one minute. This will significantly reduce the total amount of replication in minutes. The next thing I think very important is the fact that through the Rules of Procedure, all MPs and representatives' clubs or joint representatives who propose some law have to carry out an impact assessment. How will MPs assess the impact of the regulations when we do not have the tools needed to do so here in the Croatian Parliament? We don't have that. Therefore, in order to be better resolved if there were, however, some impact assessment I did not propose some amendment that I would throw it out, but I proposed an amendment which would resolve that impact assessment of the rules when the legislator proposed the law to be indicative. So, an indicative impact assessment of the regulations, and if the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to analyse in detail the impact assessment of the regulations, then let the Government do so because the Government has all the necessary tools. Recently, I have been honored in proposing two laws that I have not made an assessment of the impact of the regulations, and I did not have to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at all. So, I see from what happened last year, that I am exactly the reason why that provision was entered into the Rules of Procedure. It is me and no one else, because you have simply concluded that MPs like me who have proposals, who represent citizens and a lot of citizens, I represent the interest of 200 thousand Croatian families, so such representatives can be a problem for you. And then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will simply conclude on the grounds that the impact assessment of the regulations is not passed, so it was just the best in the world. No evaluations and no goodbyes. In this regard, I have proposed an amendment, so I think it would be very good if my amendment were accepted and in such a way that a compromise solution would be given to the problem of assessing the impact of the regulations. Next thing I know, it's very important. All of us here are chosen by the votes of Croatian citizens. The government, mainly made up of the Croatian Democratic Union, received a total of about 18% of the total voter's vote. So, with 18% of the vote, you rule this country. As democratic as that is, it's very questionable. There is no direct democracy in our country like in one of Switzerland. In Switzerland, many swore at a time when Croatia began its journey. However, since Switzerland, we still have no S. Except that we had to pay wars in francs that were twice as expensive as wars in kunas. So, since we do not have this direct democracy, we still have a kind of democracy through citizens choosing their representatives, they choose those who will represent them in the Croatian Parliament and who will then talk about their problems here in the assembly. I'm one of those agents. I am responsible for saying that I represent the interests of 200 thousand Croatian families and as such I have been chosen to speak here in the assembly on their behalf, to speak of everything in which they are cut off. Since you have determined by the draft that a pause to speak outside the topic, outside the agenda has to be held only once a day, between 13 and 14 hours after the HDZ amendment 14 and 15, I consider it a direct attack on democracy, a direct attack on freedom of speech, and I consider that by making it impossible for representatives of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens to talk about those topics that have just entered the Parliament. I therefore proposed a compromise solution and in this sense, and the compromise solution consists of not limiting the number of breaks after one session, at one point, at one day of the session, in fact, but rather limiting the time period so that at least 4 hours between the two breaks must pass. This would prevent the abuse of this institute, which is evident and I agree that it should be prevented. I don't like the circus that's being created sometimes, I'm not into it. However, this circus, which is also a circus that is happening today, and yesterday is too much needed to make the public understand what the ruling majority are trying to do. And the ruling majority is trying to silence the opposition. However, you must know that if the opposition is unique, that they are able, that the opposition is able to re-sabotage the work of the Croatian Parliament in some way, so that each MP will look for three replicas. We'll have the same situation again. But this whole pause thing, it's not good at all. I therefore appeal, consider my amendment and accept that the breaks are not limited or limited but time-constraint. So, if the break were to be made possible every four hours, I think it would make a significant contribution to disabling the abuse that was evident at certain times in the work of this Parliament. Here, I wanted to say so much about all this. I thank and hope that still the ruling majority will come to their senses and will not silence democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72955	We have six replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72956	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear counterpart Alexic, you have just presented a very reasoned criticism of the bad moves and proposals in the new Rules of Procedure, which are indeed asphyxiated by democracy in this House. But gentlemen, I'm telling you this, the more you choke us in Parliament, the more you open up a street space. Don't be surprised if people invite us instead of tomorrow to come to the squares and the streets to talk to them, because here you don't give us the opportunity to talk to the public. Then don't blame us for it. But Mr. President, I'm not addressing you directly, but it's about this replica. A colleague, Alexic, also offered some very good solutions. He was very let's say cooperative. But I ask him this question, why is there no rule in the Rules of Procedure that objects are placed on the agenda as time has come, so when did they appear? Here is a concrete example, so we haven't discussed information here about monetary developments in the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian National Bank for a year and a half. Why does the President of the Parliament currently avoid, does he favor the current governor, does he regret running him again despite everything he's done? Why doesn't it give us a chance to discuss 2016 for 2017? So beneath the radar as we deal with the Rules of Procedure, Agrokor, this, the one about this important topic of monetary Croatian National Bank whose policy has been destroying a literal economy and society for 20 years, we cannot discuss. Why is that thing stuck in that dusty drawer over there? They probably forgot where he is because he's from 2016, and he's not for 2017 either. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72957	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72958	Thank you, Your Honor. Col. Lovrinović, it is clear that the Croatian National Bank is not performing its role, nor does it perform its role in the monetary system as it should have done, and should have allowed a fluctuating exchange rate of kuna so that exporters have greater opportunities for export. And the other thing. It allowed Croatian banks to rob Croatian citizens by seizing them in their illegal change in interest rates. We know very well that the direct culprit is Governor Vujcic. Of course it's his prophet Vice Governor Fraz. Unfortunately, the debate on the Croatian National Bank is waiting, and that we will enter the euro area long before we should enter it is a fact and thanks to the fact that we and the EU will see through our fingers. So those conditions that are a prerequisite for us to enter the euro zone will not be met, but the EU will see right through our fingers because it is their goal, and they aim to get us inside as soon as possible because then we are done. There's no going back. So I am against the Croatian National Bank as it is. If she had changed her mind by some miracle now, if she had done something different by some miracle, I would certainly have changed my mind, but unfortunately that's not going to happen, and we can't even bring Governor Vujčić here to talk to him in time. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72959	Second replica of the esteemed colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72960	My colleague Alexic, I would ask you to try to make me a scenario of what it will look like in the Republic of Croatia in the next three years if the current ruling stays in their positions for the next three years, given their relationship with democracy. I'm not going to talk here about the way they did the over-realing in the 5th, 6th month they said, how they just did it last year. I'm not even talking about the lex sheriff. I think we're clear. But what I'm curious about is what you say about today's decision because that's how they see that democracy they're calling for? They say they will introduce democracy with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and the example of their democracy is your work today. At a time when they are called six hours, they do not have a reporter, so that the majority of them have concluded that they have concluded without members of others from the minority by phone resolves that there are other rapporteurs. And that decision normally looks the way, you have one decision that we came here to discuss in the assembly. You've got another decision they've made on their own. And that other decision they made alone does not call for absolutely no articles, no matter what Constitution, which Rules of Procedure, under which procedure, nothing. There's only one single sentence. There are two other rapporteurs. That's how they conduct democracy. When they need a phone, they cover the situation, and after all that, they say we're a democracy. Please script.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72961	Thank you. Here you go, pal Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72962	Thank you, Your Honor. And fellow Petrov, it's operational. So, if necessary, the ruling majority is very operational, so it was very operational when it came to Lex Agrokor, and very quickly they passed a law that resolved the situation not to immediately come to prejudicial proceedings, however, when it comes to the robbery of Croatian citizens, which is based on a court ruling that is legal, there is no response. So it's what's in the interest of some circles, which I don't know, but in any case they're not Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72963	Third replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72964	Thank you, well-respected representative Alexic, so we have been able to prove by analysis that the plenary session of the Assembly is held from about a hundred days a year, which means that parliamentary representatives are freed from their main work 265 days a year, which is a rare privilege that no employee in Croatia has. I have asked the question countless times, why are the meetings of the Assembly Committees, which are almost 30, held at the same time as the plenary session? So at this very time right now, while we're discussing here, the committee meetings are being held, even though Mondays and Tuesdays, there are no plenary sessions. And I have often asked and I repeat that question once again, why is it that the Rules of Procedure is not arranged that the session of the Assembly Committee cannot be held at the same time as the plenary session? Why we had on Wednesday a dozen constituency committees that were parallel to each other and you simply wished you couldn't participate in those board sessions or could you have been at the plenary session at the same time. Or you could only be on one of them. So it's one such memorial, it's one extreme irresponsibility where it's simply working on the sole purpose of Parliament's representatives doing as little work as possible. And that's how this Rules of Procedure was made. So the desire is for the ruling parliamentary majority to do as little as possible, and thus they are difficult to degrade the Croatian Parliament institution and I am sorry that the President of the Parliament is personally involved in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72965	Let's move on. Answer to the replica of counterpart Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72966	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you, the committees should be sitting on Mondays and Tuesdays. I must commend my colleague Jelkovac, who, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, always convenes meetings whenever there is no plenary session, and that should be some sort of conscience for each of the Committee's presidents to convene their meetings. Unfortunately, that's not how they work. I don't think it's all possible to sort out some kind of business discipline some things must be on the conscience of our MPs. I also have to inform the public that it's not just about us sitting here and discussing, but it's our job to prepare laws, to communicate with the public, to help people in their problems. So in all that we do not just work here in the assembly but work outside the assembly, I believe all those MPs who communicate a lot with the public. I personally communicate with the public very much and daily, so up to a hundred people talk to me about various topics. Most of course on the subject of banking business. Every day I answer 30 e-mails from people who are concerned about their options for lawsuits, because I know a lot about it. So, I'm not working, I'm really going to say that all my time until I sleep I work for Croatian construction. Here is what I am responsible for and I do not have to sit in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament to do this, but the fact is that we could define the working time of the Croatian Parliament differently, so that it could start at 8 o'clock, so that some limits could be established when it is discussed, how it is discussed, that it could be really determined by the Rules of Procedure that it must be on Mondays and Tuesdays and nothing other than exceptional. I agree with that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72967	Comrade Schibol, it's your turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72968	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Alexic, you have discussed certain non-democratic methods of amending this Rules of Procedure. I can really agree with that because if you put such an important document to be discussed at midnight it's really below each level, from the neutral perspective of the objective perspective of the story not subjective. I can even agree with certain findings of the ruling majority that the opposition has indeed abused the Rules of Procedure at certain times. We remember these intense slammings with these tiles, uncultural behavior, we remember when certain opposition MPs even took over the pay phone on their own. I believe that this practice really needs to be prevented in some way, but in this respect some change in the Rules of Procedure of a certain extreme. So this assessment of the effects of the regulations you mentioned, that impact assessment of the rules is just another burden for the legislators who propose the law. Because you, as a legislator of certain laws, and I, too, who have proposed the law, know how complex the procedure is and is now burdening us in this regard with certain other assessments of the effects of the rules which will de facto delay the process of proposing the law itself. I don't know what the motives are. The question is, what are the government's motives in these segments? I can only speculate, some of the speculation is that as little as possible of the bill so that as little debate as possible on certain topics. So here, I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72969	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72970	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Scibol, it's clear that motives are obvious. The first motive is to silence the opposition as much as possible, and the second motive is not to propose laws simply why they will propose laws when we have the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose, and we will vote. And then I said in the context of such thinking that we shouldn't be here, that we could go home, sit at home and debate electronically and vote electronically. Then what are we doing here? To me, my colleague Reiner, let's say that the goal is to make individual debates as high as possible without being as few replicas as possible. So what does the individual debates of the ruling majority resemble? It's not a debate on the proposal. It's just a prelude to what's already been written in the proposal. It's an undermining of what the government wrote. There's no creation there. There are no new ideas, but only there to confirm what is already written. You often take this kind of paper, and you read it. That's not an opinion. It was read by a minister or his associates. It's not a debate. That doesn't make sense. If we're gonna argue like that, then we're gonna go home and sit down. Then let's electronically exchange e-mails, electronically vote from home, and we don't need us here. Then let's have an average salary of six thousand kuna and then we don't need it. Here, very simple. So there are two motives. Shut up the opposition and prevent the opposition from proposing quality laws. Those are your motives. Unfortunately, my proposal to establish a Consumer Protection Committee has not passed because the Committee on the Economy is responsible. And the Committee on Economy, as well as the Ministry of Economy, does not deal with consumers, but deals only with those who give products to consumers. They're not interested in consumers at all. They're only interested in corporations and their interests. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72971	Let's move on. Dear colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72972	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a very good fellow Alexic that you mentioned the committees. I just wanted to look back in my replicas. So, the Independent Lists Bridge has two board presidents because of the size of the Club of Representatives. One of these is the Health Committee, which is president of Ines Strenja-Linić. The second is Tomislav Panenić Committee on Agriculture. These two committees are the most active in the entire Croatian Assembly in convening thematic sessions and are opening important topics. It's like you're the chairman of the Committee on Economy and you want to open up the topic of consumer protection, franc and so on. And now these committees, even these thematic sessions are not dedicated to the media, but they are really constructively debated because there are no political points and that. And I can really say that Ines has opened the topic of going to nurses, the position of nurses, about children suffering from malignancies and really here on these committees and agreeing both opposition and positions practically. And now, as your representative of the opposition, the ruling majority is defending you to call for some sort of thematic session. Don't defend it, but you have to ask permission. Here I think it's a key problem even these amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72973	Here's your answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72974	Thank you, Mr. President. That a colleague of Sladolev, on the one hand, argues that he is trying to dynamic the committees right now that there is as much discussion on the boards as possible, and on the other hand they give you a restriction that you can no longer convene thematic sessions as possible. So that's a lie, actually. Then he doesn't really want to dynamicize and maximise the debate on committees, but he does, and he wants to choke. And for what? Well, the boards are about to discuss these topics right now. These are kind of press conferences, but at a professional level where you should consider the various problems that people have and, of course, if the media comes, if they follow it, then the public will then be better sensitised to certain problems. So I can tell you the case, my case. I don't call on any committees, but I called a thematic session based on the consent of my colleagues from the board. The thematic session discussed illegal interest. From that session to today and through these speeches at the assembly, and through the affirmation of everything that happens in the courts, the number of lawsuits I think has grown by double to the banks. It's still very small. Since the government doesn't do anything to deprive the citizens of the out-of-court, to order the banks to pay back their new people thanks to this public work that I have here, citizens are going to court and citizens are getting convictions. Citizens have already had 10 fines against banks that illegally charged interest rates. It's public work. That's what public work serves to sensitize the public about their rights. And I agree with you. The committees should be enabled to work as easily as possible and to call up the thematic sessions as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72975	And here's my last replica of my colleague Ljubic. No, I don't. Excuse me. Is that an answer? What? No, I don't. He's a friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72976	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72977	I'm a colleague of Ljubic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72978	So you said you were speaking on behalf of the citizens who elected you. However, we are all elected by citizens and most citizens have actually voted in favour of the parliamentary majority parties. And on the other hand, the Rules of Procedure are not created, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure only for the opposition, but also for the parliamentary majority. We'll all be working on that Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, he complains that these changes are in a non-democratic way, so they hinder the right to speak in the Parliament. In fact, these changes allow the right of speech in the Assembly to discuss matters in an important way. I'll tell you I've 10 times given up the debate because the time spent for replicas is often being motivated by a certain kind of exhibitionism. If we really want to follow a democratically mature state, then let's see that the French Parliament has no replica, no pause at all. So in the German Parliament, the replica can only be requested with the permission of the president and the one who spoke. To last a minute in the European Parliament, it is also conditional. Therefore, we follow certain rules to say a more democratically mature state. And still, the debate on this point I'm going to say openly, has actually shown a very reasoned why we need to just change the Rules of Procedure. It is legitimate to oppose opposition, but it is not legitimate to obstruct. And here we are today, here we have been facing this problem for two days. And in the end, Mr. Alexic himself to you. So you said you speak for the 200,000 people you represent here in the Parliament. I would like you to ask yourself, in fact, to what extent do you use them by using your senseless adherence to the opposition or opposition to the parliamentary majority? I would actually advise you to follow the example of a much younger fellow Scybol who, thanks to the co-operation with the parliamentary majority, managed to say that the law was passed to the benefit of those represented in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72979	Answer, colleague Alexic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72980	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Ljubic, the duty of you and all of you from the majority is to protect the rule of law, and it is not your duty to call on me to yourself, but it is your duty to act on the basis of what I am justifyingly telling you to do, as I am asking because it is the interest of the rule of law, it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is in the interest of GDP growth at the end, because banks are owed from 5 to 10 billion kuna overpaid interest to Croatian citizens. And if you do not defend the interest of Croatian citizens, then you defend the interest of foreign capitalists who hold banks here. That's one thing. The second thing, you've got a total of 18% of the electoral body all together. 18% that's far, away from some important majority. That's the democracy. Third, you mentioned France, Germany and similar countries where there are no such exhibitions as there are in Croatia. However, these countries have a very high standard, these countries have no problems hiring people, on the contrary, our people flee to these countries. So when one day we reach the economic level of these countries, I believe that there will be no need for the exhibition that happens here in the Croatian Parliament because then it will be clear that the government is fully working in the interests of the citizens, because the protection of consumers I advocate is the number one in the European Union, not in Croatia. Why isn't he in Croatia? Because we have not yet realised that consumers are in fact all citizens and that these citizens represent the foundation of the economy, and they do not represent banks as the foundation of the economy as some here think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72981	Thank you. Let's move on. There is now a single debate of respected counterpart Nikola Grumoje. Here you go. We continue with individual debates. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72983	Dear President, here's 3 and 21, I entered the Parliament yesterday at 8 and 15, the first fighter of this freedom of speech, the only one left here from those who, here forgive my colleague Bulj, here and colleague Bulj is here I haven't seen him come. So we stood up last night about 11:30 and we didn't believe that we'd make it by the early morning, here we are now in the afternoon, and so we sent a message that the rulings can't do what they want. That their attempt to discuss the Rules of Procedure was behind midnight, where they hoped most MPs would go home, it did not pass. And there have been high-quality discussions, in particular the discussion of colleagues of the Dolnjak on this Rules of Procedure, where he compared this proposal of the Rules of Procedure with Western European practice and proved that he is not only undemocratic, that he reduces the rights of parliamentary representatives but that he is also anti-constitutional. Why anti-constitutional? Because according to this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we have a situation which means that reports are only being discussed on the working bodies, not before the Croatian Parliament, and we know that all MPs, especially from smaller clubs and independent representatives, are not all represented in the working bodies, and they are practically in an unequal position towards representatives of the ruling or representatives of these larger parties, and this is anti-constitutional and this Rules of Procedure is anti-constitutional. My colleague Podolnjak made that clear. And I'm not talking about all these situations where you can't even call a board meeting anymore if you don't have the support of the ruling ones, and they've been talking here on several occasions about how the two committees run the Bridges are the most active committees. We all know how many important topics the colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, a colleague of Tomislav Panenić, opens. However, none of this will be possible under this Rules of Procedure or this Rules of Procedure. Not to mention three replicas. Imagine when there's a budget you only have the right to three replicas. What if there's some kind of untruth? What if someone's replicating something to you based on those previous discussions of yours, you don't have any possibility of a reaction? So are the breaks. He also told counterpart Reiner that the institute had changed over the years. That she used to serve as some extraordinary situation when to call a club, decide something. But here's what's going on. Says colleague Reiner, it wasn't before that every morning we had a break. Now we won't have a break in the morning, nor will we have this institute break that serves some extraordinary situation, because we will only have a break for a certain period and only one representative from the club. So you're losing both of those institutes. And this original one that was designed for some extraordinary situation to agree on, but also this one that developed let's say that it became usually some kind of right for MPs to talk about the topicals in the morning. So we don't have either of them anymore. A decrease in time, I think, during the debate last night, my colleague Sincic was talking about how many minutes were reduced by the ability of the representatives to speak. I forgot what he said, but I think it's four, it's getting smaller times. Maybe more. So this is limiting the rights of parliamentary representatives, the right to freedom of speech. Those who write about the MPs talking about themselves tonight are not true. They were talking about the right of counsel to open up topics. And it is our constituents who are asking us to open certain topics. Here is now a colleague of Bunjac talking about a man who sent him a specific problem and he opened it here in the Croatian Parliament. Doesn't mean the problem will be solved by a colleague of Bunjac's, but maybe someone will hear it. Well, here it is, the Prime Minister of Hvar. We've got people out there who don't have electricity. Well, that's our job as our parliamentary deputies to make legislative proposals and open topics, to warn us about problems, irregularities, and so forth. And we now have a situation that when we refer something to the procedure, we have no guarantee that it will even be discussed and that it will be voted on. This law of ours on the three preferential votes of President-in-Office of the Parliament in the procedure. We can't discuss it. I'm asking you now, when are we going to discuss the Bridge's proposal that, if citizens have the ability to choose, it means rounding up three preferential votes? Why are you afraid of this debate? Let's hear what you're saying. How about that bill of ours? A year, how many colleagues, Shimic? We've been waiting for it since the first session. [[Upadica Šimić: Since the first session.]] Why are we waiting? Why are you afraid to say we're not up for that bill of yours? All right. We'll vote and let the citizens see what you think about it. ... Yeah, and they said they were on two occasions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They said they were for a lot of things, but when they needed them anywhere. And that we don't talk about any of our other laws that have been put into practice. I wonder what will happen to extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the sea which we have given in the procedure exclusively the economic belt? So let's see what that country's sovereign HDZ says. Either it's going to be followed again by some direction from Brussels, or the prime minister will say that Italy and Kosiga have put us in charge and that we can't declare an exclusive economic belt. But that's what we want to hear. We want to hear a debate. We're not afraid to discuss any subject. We want to hear the attitude of the ruling on the suggestions he makes me. We are very constructive and we refer a lot of legislative proposals and initiatives, but it cannot come at all to debate or vote. And not just that. When there's something we want to warn you about, let's give it an interpretation. Interpletion never has to come. And then they say, the opposition is destructive because it's demanding impeachment. Well, that's the only instrument we have that we know will come here on the agenda and that the government will demonstrate within a certain time frame and we'll have a debate here. And even now, with all that we don't have any right to push through our legal proposals, you're still cutting our freedom of speech, you're shortening our time of debate, you're trying to make colleague Bulj, the representatives of the Mosta have four of us among the ten most active to get even with the others, so everyone's going to have three replicas, and that's that. No one's gonna jump out. And that's what's important is that it doesn't wave, that stability is that so-called stability. Plenkovic's stability, and we see where she's taking us. We see what's going on with GDP, we see what the situation is in the economy, we see what the situation is like around Agrokor, we see that at every step of the way asphyxiation of democratic freedoms, the collapse of institutions that have been hard-building like the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. It's all in action. It's all in action, but I still believe that the people a little, a little bit open their eyes, to see what this is about, who's actually leading Croatia, what their intentions are and what it's going to lead to. So the secretary of state said not what he thought of Minister Murganic, but what he thought of Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government. After a meeting of the Demographic Revitalisation Council, the man said Croatia is extinct and resigned, resigned. How about a stronger message than that? So what do we got? We have a situation to take away the right of speech to talk about all these problems of demographic breakdown and then introduce us as those who are destructive, who were allegedly doing some kind of circus tonight. No, we asked at 11.30 to move the debate for the morning, to beg for it to be done. But no, President Jandrokovic has ordered that it must be discussed late at night, outside the public's focus that it must go under the radar so that as few MPs as possible discuss it. And what did you get, Mr. President? You get that here at 3.30 you sit there and listen to us who are here in the Croatian Parliament 26, 27 maybe more hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72984	We have three replicas, the first is the esteemed colleague of the Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72985	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. There are other forms in which we participate in the adoption of a better proposal on the Rules of Procedure, concrete proposals at the stage of the production of documents, concrete amendments, etc. We here for two days discussing how we will talk, all of this indicates simply where we are at the level of democracy, how much we have adopted some democratic principles of mutual respect, etc. And it is very important to stress, and here I agree with you, that the Rules of Procedure should be arranged, I hope that you agree with that thesis. The fact that breaks as a tool have been misused, the fact that replicas as a tool have been misused often, more accurately using beyond any meaning and essence, and that's true. There must be no restriction on the rights of our parliamentary representatives, especially in highlighting what is important and what is essential. So we have a double task of preventing separation from the topic in the debate and being constructive and efficient. I see that we have in the phase here and concrete proposals by the SDP both on your part and on the part of the independent parliamentary representatives, I think it is very important that and by ruling to find energy to respect a whole series of amendments that don't matter to the essence of the changes they want to make and at least to agree on the way we're going to talk. Here's the message I want at least as much as I can contribute to getting to a common story, to a mutual agreement, to my people at least agree on how we're going to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72986	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72987	I have no doubt that we in the opposition should have the opportunity to speak and open certain topics. And as for construction, we're very constructive, we've had a very constructive discussion, Professor. The bottom line, a comparison with Western European practice, means one of the few clubs that had a constructive discussion and directed 15 highly constructive amendments yesterday. But I wouldn't agree with you in one thing, it's not our intention and those who made it means ruling who made this proposal the same. Their intention is to reduce the right of representatives to speak, to open certain topics, to launch the thematic sessions of the board, and our proposals go in a different direction. And that sentence that marked yesterday's debate is crucial, every country has a government, and only democracy has an opposition. And that's exactly where Parliament's resolution of yesterday's assembly is headed. The floor where it is said that the democratic quality of parliament is measured by means of available opposition or parliamentary minority to achieve their tasks. I think that's the key, and that's where our discussion went in a constructive direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72988	Second replica, colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72989	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear comrade Grmoya, you see the break Mr. Rainer looks at her and pauses watching her I just don't make the same sense. It is precisely the purpose of a break to talk after a break about the problem that citizens have, which is not on the agenda. And that's why we're here in the Croatian Parliament to have MPs talk about what the government doesn't talk about because if we're going to talk about just what the government is talking about, and the government is proposing laws and if we're just going to talk about the laws that the government is proposing, then I repeat, we don't need us here. Then what are we doing here when the government has already discussed it all? When will this be passed and when does it not make any sense to even discuss it in that case? The point of these breaks is that the public here is directly talking about the problems of Croatian citizens that Croatian citizens want to listen to, so they chose us. It's not the same thing when I take that megaphone and stand in Ban Jelačić Square and yell at five people, it's not the same thing when I take my word here at the assembly hall and start talking about some very important subject, it's not the same thing. And for this reason, I appeal once again to all of us to be ready for compromises and oppositions and authorities, to agree on all together and try to compromise the problems with the Rules of Procedure because the truth is and I agree that in certain moments the Croatian Parliament is similar to the circus and that it is not good and that it has to change, but it will not change with repression but only by compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72990	Answer me, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72991	My colleague Alexic, who listened well to me, realized that's exactly what I was talking about. We don't have any possibility of imposing any topic in this High House if we're to be taken away from these breaks and replicas. If we don't have a chance to put a certain law in the process, then we can't impose the subject. Then we just act here as a reaction to what our ruling offers are either on the agenda or in a different way through committees, etc. And the one I repeat again, yesterday I said that, the one who imposes the subject, he rules the world. The one who's pushing the subject. And only then do we react to those topics. We have no possibility of opening any topic if President Jandrokovic does not want to put our law to debate and vote, and he does not want to. And what can we do about it? And we're talking about some kind of democracy, the rights of the opposition or something else. We have no rights and our rights are systematically broken in this high house. They are being systematically broken, and now that such a Rules of Procedure has been adopted, they will completely take away our right to talk about topics that no one in the Croatian Parliament has spoken about before you entered the Parliament. And you keep talking about these topics every morning. And you're probably boring to some of you here in the Parliament, you're probably boring and ruling, but you're not boring to those people who are in these problems. They understand what you're talking about. It is very likely boring for President Jandrokovici to hear about problems blocked, illegally acquired, or increased interest, money that banks have taken from our citizens, he is bored. He doesn't have that kind of problem. But those who have these problems, they understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72992	Thanks, buddy. I'm sure you've got your pay problems, too. Thank you very much. Let's go, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72993	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Grmoi, the Institute of Freedom of Speech of the Legislative Body, Parliament or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, is the largest body, and the people elected must not and cannot be deprived of their right of freedom of speech. Who we are Parliamentarians to assess what kind of pattern there must be, how many replicas we must have, to change when there is going to be a break, it's all about being in a pattern, to be obedient because this Rules of Procedure is a direct blow to freedom of speech. Three replicas, two breaks, says counterpart of the Parliament just before, comrade Grmoya, you have no problems. Well, of course the people are paying us, but to speak, not to give us Jandrokovic, the president forbids us to speak. It won't to me, it won't to me. I've never felt like a circus. I'm a serious man. I've been involved in defense as many of these countries here, but I'm not going to let them take away my right of speech, even if they're playing some larger liberals, less conservatives, agreeing with me, disagree, take away my right of word, there's no one, according to the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the current freedoms of speech reached. Everything else is a direct blow to parliamentary democracy. And if we don't stop it, this Parliament really doesn't make sense anymore, this is The Pharaoh system managed by Andrej Plenkovic. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Replication response. My colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72994	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72995	Comrade Bulj, of course, I agree with everything you have said and I have said on several occasions that I believe these amendments to the Rules of Procedure reduce the democratic rights of the opposition, and the democratic rights of the opposition must be such that we question those laws that the Government brings before us here. So imagine what a debate would look like, so we're being questioned about the right to reduce. So we have a situation that ministers have ordered questions. Well, that would only be praise for the laws that come from the government. They'd be all praises. Everything would be great. And that is why we are here as an opposition to try, to question the legal proposals that come to us here and thus through the amendments, through the discussions we are promoting them to be as good as possible and to go as possible in favour of our citizens. People write to us. We had this law on protected tenants, apartment owners, we got thousands of e-mails. And it wasn't easy for us because there are two conflicted sides, to find some kind of attitude and see how to regulate things, to go into a meeting, of course, and to people who have the right to private property, but also to protected tenants. And that's our task as Parliamentarians. See, so, what bothers people in certain legal proposals, how to improve them, and we do it all the time. Well, I'm not just here not to know, we're discussing, we're looking for breaks. Well, we have amendments to every law. In the Law on Agricultural Land, a number of amendments, the Law on OPGs, a number of amendments, but nothing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72996	Thank you. We're going to the final hearing now. The first is on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic, but before that, a colleague of Bunjac has something important to say. We're going to the final debate now. There are two clubs. The first club is a representative of the Living Wall and SNAGA's respected colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72998	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, one colleague, one but worthy, I agree. So what I have to say at the end is I'm not happy with the draft. I suggested, in fact, I did not propose I was proposed by the Franak Association, but in cooperation with me, during the discussion of the organisations representing 30,000 members, it proposed that a consumer protection committee be formed. Unfortunately, I could not give such an amendment because the amendments only apply to the articles of the Rules of Procedure that are being amended, and since it is a new member, I could not propose an amendment to that committee. It is a great shame that the initiative to form a consumer protection committee has not come across a positive assessment by the ruling ones, it is a great pity. The Consumer Protection Committee exists in the europarliament, the Consumer Protection Committee cannot be within the Committee on the Economy, I think it can, but it is not good to discuss consumer protection within the framework of the Committee, because it is not at all discussed in this Committee. This committee mainly deals only with economics, entrepreneurs, corporations, etc., and is not concerned with consumer protection, unfortunately. Consumers are the most important part of the EU, evidence of this is Directive 93/13, evidence of which are directives that protect consumers, evidence of this is the Law on the Protection of Consumers of the Republic of Croatia, evidence of this is ultimately a judicial verdict in the case of Franak, which is almost entirely on the side of the consumer, and will soon be 100% entirely on the consumer side, I believe it will be. Consumer protection needs to be discussed at the level of people who would be serious about this, and then representatives of consumer protection associations could participate in this committee. So it is thus proposed that as external participants in this committee be one professor of economy, one professor of law, one representative of the HGK and finally three representatives of important associations for the protection of consumers from the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the proposal has not been passed, so here I am now announcing that it will propose new amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the additions that I will propose to form that consumer protection committee, so if this has not already entered into the debate, it will be discussed some other time. I hope it won't wait too long for that. And in short, since I am not satisfied with this draft, I am not satisfied with the complete Live Wall club and I have proposed compromise solutions, I will repeat them once again. I suggested that the replicas are not limited to three, but that the replicas be reduced to 90 seconds, to respond to the replicas being reduced to a minute, I suggested that the breaks not only be limited to one day but be limited to the time range between the breaks, so that between the two breaks must be at least four hours, it may be six hours not have to be four, but it is important not to limit the break to just one day, and it is especially important that it is not limited to a specific time in the day. Because I have to repeat again, we are chosen to speak on behalf of Croatian citizens, in order to speak on behalf of Croatian citizens about what Croatian citizens are concerned with, we must be allowed to talk outside the topic set by agenda, so according to this pause is extremely important and the break is not what Mr Reiner explained but the break is exactly what I am saying. Stanka serves to talk after a break on behalf of Croatian citizens about why we were elected to the Croatian Parliament as their representatives. And finally the last thing, the impact assessment of the regulations that the government of the Republic of Croatia must do is now prescribed, will also be prescribed for MPs. I appeal for this to be reduced to an indicative impact assessment of the rules, and a thorough assessment should be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as part of its opinion if it considers it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u72999	We have a replica of a esteemed colleague of the Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73000	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Alexic. You have discussed the proposal of the Consumer Protection Committee in any case it is a good idea, and I will surely support this proposal. I wanted to ask about this law, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will be cast out by name vote, how do you comment on this release of the name vote? Is that really necessary or should such a voting model be put in anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73001	Answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73002	Thank you, Your Honor. He's a pal of Scibol's. Of course that should be left behind, so I even think I'm guilty of why it is because the last time I got 78 signatures of support, I asked for a nickname vote, precisely because the public would see which one of the MPs on the paper supported the law that I proposed and voted for that law, to see it. It's not the same if we press here on the desk button and if the citizens see that someone's up and I'm talking about that law, I'm against that law, it's not the same. And that message to the public is very important because the public loves people of blood and flesh, loves to see us, loves to hear us and loves to know who they're dealing with. And for this reason, the institution of the name vote is needed, it is not often used, and I really don't see any need for it to be thrown out, except that individuals who for vain reasons felt called, just when I demanded an individual vote they probably initiated to move it away because they would not be embarrassed in the future in front of the Croatian public by giving on the paper of one and the other. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73003	We are also going to discuss the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists in the final, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73004	Thank you very much. 16 hours 12 minutes yesterday I came to this Parliament and 8 hours, here until now I haven't left it since two very important laws around 23.30 I saw it being prepared to be in procedure, that they don't want to give up the law to go into debate. At the time there were very few MPs, I asked for a break and of course symbolically I went out with a patch is this and is a Band-Aid who proposes, they on us a pitch patch they want us... and then I said very clear words. Freedom of speech is the basis of democracy, and we have acquired the freedom of speech, the way of speech and the Rules of Procedure that is now in force. By abolishing the breaks, by limiting the number of replicas, by shortening the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is typical that most of what for parliamentary democracy or the reduction of rights is incomprehensible, and we know that our government is calling, this is by government order, this is where the click happened when Prime Minister Plenkovic was on the subject of the EU Council when he brought the report and then we asked him questions and, of course, it is our obligation to ask him questions. And I remember here talking and communicating between our chairman when he said he should be banned I saw this is impossible to change. There's a clear view here, most of us want to sedate the minority, mold the parliamentary representative. I don't have to agree with you gentlemen either, but we have to express our views. I can't be limited to being in a scheme like the wish of HDZ and their satellites. And I said then withdraw the law, here last night, now it's 16 hours already, they didn't want to, they laughed. I said by dawn we'll welcome 9.5 hours, and it's really, we've welcomed, many have been involved with good debates, they've been given the opportunity to give amendments to this law and it's embarrassing and it's sad what's in the emergency procedure that didn't go in at least two readings, but these have been abolished by the freedom of speech under the radar. But no, they don't do it only to the representatives, but even on public television, a show was canceled by Tihomir Duimovic, Maja North and Mr. Sikanic, who is here, I will openly say attacked every day by MOST. We never said words. He had the right to speak against us at the time, but he only said a word against the Vrdoljaks. He got fired right away, he was dumped, but he was under pressure, right? Yeah, it's shutting down freedom of speech, because at this point we're parliamentary representatives in this. But we're also doing this to future parliamentary deputies, we're not eternal. And if we let this happen, I don't really trust myself as a parliamentary representative anymore, those that the people gave me 11,000 and some of the votes of the preferential I no longer trust here, Mr. President. And I really never wanted to do the circus, but find models and you'll be in bigger trouble. Who's going to count three replicas if we're 150? You need to increase the budget, not one person can do it. Well, you do shackles for us, we're not slaves. We're MPs. The constitution gives us the right to speak here and we are invulnerable, we have immunity. And if that happens, we lose the right to what Parliament is to say. The word, what voters expect from us, not what Plenkovic ordered President Jandrokovic. Not under the radar that debate. And they say there was a circus. No, this is a win. It's no longer 5:0, although one government has already fallen, so other parliamentary deputies have come here among us, otherwise they haven't been in a very short period. It's not 5:0, gentlemen. This is the victory of 12 people who stayed here from most opposition clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73005	Congratulations on your victory. Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73006	Dear Mr. President, Comrade Bull. I take part in this process of drawing up my Rules of Procedure, i.e. amending my Rules of Procedure, with proposals and amendments. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are necessary and we must be aware of that and that is the fact. The first direction of these changes is towards preventing the abuse of the constituency through the tools of particularly pauses and replicas. And that's the fact that it's happening and we need to sort of prevent it. It is also necessary to increase the ability of a parliamentary representative to say everything that needs to be said in accordance with his obligation, i.e. And that the voice of the people who chose him may be heard, and that is where I support you. But here we have seen in the process, there have been concrete suggestions that I am not now going into the metrics, the essence that I want to stress is that we have been talking for two days about how we are going to talk in the future. I think there is room for agreement, and I appeal to the ruling to make some concrete amendments by the SDP and independent parliamentary representatives and by the driver as a MOST, etc. In this direction, let's just let's just get people to agree on how we're gonna talk. We owe it to those who choose us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73007	Buddy Bull, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73008	Comrade Orepić, I would like to agree with you personally on most of the laws when voting for amendments and I have given certain laws in the procedure whether they will come or not, depending on the majority. And there are no rules, you can give the law in the procedure but you're triangulating well most of it to make them something. I'd rather tell you honestly there was rhetoric while you were Minister, while you spoke bravely I went on shows to defend you, that the Constitutional Court was corrupt. I liked that rhetoric a lot better. Why is that rhetoric? But she was much clearer. As for the amendment? You can give them somewhere around 80. I personally have five amendments. That I... If it hadn't been for this kind of reaction last night, you wouldn't have had the possibility of not giving the amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we still try to be firm here, clear because voters choose us, but we will not limit freedom of speech. They won't cut it. I tell everyone here they won't cut me down. I'm not into circuses, I'm not about to get out. But most of what is not in Parliament's democracy under the orders of Prime Minister Plenkovic because this is against constitutionality, it is primarily a tribal to go in two readings if someone is to agree, not to push this article in the middle of the night, and now after 16 hours that we have to hold a break, talk about topics that are serious, which are not to be talked about. I won't be able to speak anymore, or if I speak, I once spoke to myself a little bit, I'm a tribune in armor so that Minister Dalic doesn't hit me here. There was no reaction from the president. Why? Because she's the prime minister. ... So it must not be a stronger body that comes out of Parliament than we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will fight the way I know it, because I have the legitimacy of the voters but not just for my voters but for those when this government goes away who will come instead of us here We can't allow most people to harass the minority. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] They have all the tools of executive power, we only have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73009	You're harassing us now. You're wasting time. Two minutes is prescribed. So it's not prescribed to say how much you want, it's two minutes, and that's the difference in the concept of what you think and what we think. I'm not nervous at all. [[I don't know what you're nervous about.]] What would be nervous? Comrade Alexic, come in. [[/Attack Bulja: You are a little nervous. You're a bit of a yawner.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73010	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't break any barriers, I'm always within two minutes, ten minutes, 15 minutes. I'm trying really hard and I'm constructive and I don't want to fight with anyone at all. It's not in my blood at all. I don't like fighting. But I just really do have to replicate to you, but I've given you a line I'm not the President of the Parliament, so then I have to replicate to you. So it's not about the majority at all. It's about a coalition of more people who had every minority. No one has a majority. And the problem is those who have entered the coalition that they are a minority. We have minorities who are really called minorities. We have a HNS that has very few votes. We've got HRAST, we've got some other representatives of the smaller parties. And they are actually supporting this in principle of HDZ's proposal asphyxiating themselves because someday they will be able to lack the right to speak on behalf of those citizens who chose them. So this is precisely about minority terror over most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want us to talk on their behalf here in the assembly. So it's a "terror" minority, it's not a real terror that we only understand each other over most of the Croatian citizens. And the other thing you were talking about was the shows that were canceled, and I have to mention another beautiful show that was on HRT, it was called "public Thing" that led Goran Rotim where he brought big fish to his show and those big fish had to answer citizens' questions, and that show was actually a very democratic show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73011	Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73012	Well, I would agree with you fellow Alexic, but there's nothing more painful than in a free democratic society when freedom of speech is threatened or about these shows and journalists who ran good shows, we also have "Vita Foods, Green Pine" which has also been abolished and returned, simply public television is the service of the current government, it is a service. And about that and even having some kind of influence, but to shut down the shows because of that, and to fire a man and bring him back because he mentioned Ivan Vrdoljak, is that freedom of speech? Well, the journalist will write about me what he wants and write about me every day. And of course they have institutes where to fight. The fact is that we Parliamentarians, this time most of them, of course... are going to defend the government's pathways as a minority of us who have the only instrument we can suggest, can't influence it if the president is the one who puts it on the agenda, we can't influence anything. We don't have a break right now, I'm telling you, I've made two suggestions, I've prepared a few more, I've given a ban on GMOs to the full ban on GMOs law, I've given it to the Peace Day of Dr. Schreter and Dr. Sreter's memory. Schretter, I don't know when it'll come. However, I am interested in that minority. Minorities are national wealth, but in Croatia there are minorities in power. And I'm interested in the position of Milorad Popovec, the declared Social Democrats, is eating him now in the majority, and we are in Parliament in the minority. I haven't heard a single voice from him, otherwise it's big and I respect minorities, and the minorities are as much as we hold to minorities, so many societies are developed. They're nowhere to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73013	Thank you. Comrade Schibol, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73014	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Bull. So you talked about how the debate on such an important topic as the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be put at midnight is disastrous. Not only is this disastrous, but it is below every level of parliamentaryism, below every level of responsibility. Why run away from the debates of such important debates on fundamental documents as the regulation of democracy in the highest home of democracy? On the other hand, you were talking about the media, but what is the role of the media in this hypercapitalist system today? This is not even a capitalist system, this is a hyper capitalist system where capital forms public opinion and then the main emissions that are being served to us and our children are Big Brother and they want Big Brother to be in the Croatian Parliament, Big Brother and similar shows today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73015	Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73016	My fellow Scybol, you, too, and I, in my first session, opened that question, and you brought it to an end, and I congratulate you on that being Raiffeisen, a savings credit union that basically robbed our people, which I opened up in the former one. You will no longer be able to break in a time when it is necessary and when people expect you, the people who are squirming in debt. A colleague, Alexic, won't be able to talk to the banks about interest, interest rate, illegality, bank robbery, and that's his obligation. It is my duty to have my voters down the Cetinski region, like, the Dalmatian Burn to talk about these problems and other topics of course, but the voters gave me votes. So they're taking away our freedom of speech with this. What counterpart Orepic just said is usurping a topic, watch the break is what the parliamentary representative wants to say. And whether it is out of the question or whether it is currently necessary for citizens to expect it from him, it will be decided by voters in the elections when they evaluate us, it will be extraordinary, it is not a problem on a regular basis. But that someone, that we judge each other what we're going to say at breaks other than insult. So we have a reduction in most of the freedom of speech here, the right of speech we have so far, and that's the point in 2018 to reduce the rights of parliamentary representatives on freedom of speech, then we know what's going to happen to our voters, to our citizens, to what's going to happen to them. They will not be allowed to write if they see that we do not have the courage to open these topics, and the aim of this Rules of Procedure is that we are not talking about these topics but about... the subject of the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73017	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate, and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. With this we came to the end of the work, continue on Tuesday 6 March, the first point of the proposal for a law on conditions for providing customs representation services, first reading, P.Z.E. number 292. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m. And now we move on to today's work, today's agenda, first: - Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Rules of Procedure on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. 522 amendments were submitted to the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to stress that the applicants have withdrawn from the 475 amendments procedure, and we have 47 amendments left to declare. In accordance with the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we will now declare these 47 amendments, and we will vote when the conditions are met, it will be on Friday. I now ask the representative of the president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of academics, Željko Reinera, to be shown about the amendments submitted. Let's go in order, I'll read the number of amendments so please make an observation and then let your colleagues give their opinion. The first is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73019	The amendment of the SDP Club to the first article does not accept the Committee as it considers it unnecessary and excessive to distinguish between the terms of the elected representative and the representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73020	Thank you. An obvious, esteemed colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73021	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is about several provisions of the Rules of Procedure and several amendments, specifically amendments 1st, 10th, 13th and 15th, and I will be free to give an explanation for all four amendments because they are related and make up one whole. Therefore, the term of the elected representative was introduced in 2013 into the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in order to distinguish it from the representatives who are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure at that time still in their term of office. The term of office of representatives in the Croatian Parliament begins with the establishment of the Croatian Parliament and ends either by leaving in one way or by establishing the next convocation of the Croatian Parliament. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that by eradicating the concept of elected MP from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will be in a position to be told in the Rules of Procedure that the President of the Croatian Parliament is elected by representatives at the constitutive session, and that the elected representatives are not yet. That is why we have done this distinction in order to make it absolutely clear and unequivocally who the persons voting at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament and according to these provisions in 2015 and 2016 were established by the Croatian Parliament. Among other things, the esteemed colleague Reiner was duly elected by elected MPs in the Croatian Parliament as president of the Croatian Parliament. However, given the position expressed by colleagues and the fact that we did not receive support for the above, we accept the argument even though we do not agree with it and will not ask for a vote on the amendment first, nor on the amendment 10th, nor on the 13th amendment, nor on the 15th amendment, and we withdraw those four amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73022	I thank my fellow coat of arms. So we're not going forward with amendments 10, 13 and 15 now, but we're moving on to Amendment 20. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73023	Amendment 20 does not accept. First, it is obviously a mistake, or it is not an article 4 but an article 2 of the proposal. However, the amendment is not accepted because the business provisions set out that the term of office of the representative ceases on the day of the establishment of the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament and does not matter whether the president from the previous term of the Croatian Parliament chaired in the case referred to in Article 4(2) has been re-elected or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73024	Thank you. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73025	Thank you, Mr. President. Our amendment suggested that until President-in-Office's election the session be chaired temporarily by the oldest elected representative who is willing to chair. The explanation is simple. This solution is most often common in the business provisions of other European Parliaments that we have consulted. That's the most common solution. It is also the most neutral because the presidency has a person who is not known in advance which political option will belong to, and this solution is also present now in the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure as a backup solution in the case, so that the session would not be chaired by the previous president of the Parliament. Therefore, if something is good and as a back-up solution, we do not see any reason why this solution would not be the first best-quality solution that in any case gives both possible and other options, so that it would always be the oldest representative who is willing to chair. And I believe that we would be on track for all similar solutions that exist in other parliamentary systems whose Rules of Procedure we have consulted. We therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73026	Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment number 66 of the same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73027	Amendment No 66 to Article 8 of the Committee does not accept the resignation of the President or Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and must be regulated in a proposed manner. In addition, Article 272 of this proposal stipulates, among other things, that the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament are elected on time until the end of the parliamentary term, the resolution or resignation. The expiry of the parliamentary term shall be regulated by the applicable provisions of Article 10. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73028	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73029	With our proposal, we wanted to clarify and extend the situation when the resignation of the President or Vice-President of the Parliament came, and for other reasons envisaged and established, not only in the event of his resignation. For example, we have called for reasons under Article 10. A law on election of MPs which has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the end of the time to which he was elected if he resigns, provided that he has been deprived of his business capacity by a final decision, if he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for more than 6 months and death. These are four reasons that are foreseen for the termination of the term of office. Therefore, it is logical that these are the reasons why the representative ceases his term of office, that these are also the reasons why the president or vice-president of the Parliament ends his term of office. So, not only the resignation that was first among the four, but everyone else. We actually wanted our amendment to do just that. Therefore, in the event of their resignation or their term of office, they may cease for other reasons established before the expiry of the time to which they have been elected by reference to Article 10. Law on election of MPs. And in that sense, we'll ask for a vote. We're not giving up the amendment and we're going to ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73030	Thank you. We are now going to Amendment 109. It's a SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73031	Amendment 109 to Article 9 of the Committee does not accept that the proposed solution adequately regulates the replacement of the President of the Croatian Parliament in the event of resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73032	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73033	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe, however, that the proposed solution does not regulate the way in which the vice-president would change it in the event of the term of office of President-in-Office and that, as it is now written, it would be inapplicable even to the present situation. Because if one of the parliamentary majority changes it, on the day of the Assembly's constitution, or the 1st session, it could either be Mr. Brkic or Mr. Reiner or Mr. Petrov. But that doesn't determine who changes it. That's why we think our proposal is better and we can't give up on it with our best will and we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73034	Thank you. We're now going to Amendment 143 of the Most Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73035	Amendment 143 to Article 9. The board doesn't accept. In fact, it is on the trail of this previous one because the Committee considers that the proposed solution adequately regulates the replacement of the President of the Croatian Parliament in the event of resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73036	Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73037	Thank you. So our argument is that we are looking for a change in the proposed provision, a different and a solution to what the SDP colleagues are proposing. We have suggested that in the event of the term of office of President-in-Office of the Parliament until the election of a new one, President-in-Office of the Parliament is replaced by the age-oldest Vice-President of the Parliament, so on the trail of solutions that we have already explained in the constitution of the Parliament. The proposed provision proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System does not, in our opinion, give a clear rule that out of the 3 vice-presidents in the line of MPs who had most of the first day, the first session of the Parliament, they will replace the President, given that it is possible, and such situations were in practice, that the three vice-presidents of the parliamentary majority belong to different parties. So, let me remind you, in my last term of office, when I acted as vice-president of the parliamentary majority, then three vice-presidents of the parliament belonged to three political parties. So each one was from another political party. And I simply asked at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, which in that case would have been among the three vice-presidents who were of the parliamentary majority, but different political parties, who would replace the president who resigned. And the solutions, so there's no answer. I couldn't get an answer back then from other members of the Constitution committee, nor I'm sure I could get one here. That is why the solution we are proposing is absolutely clear. A vice president who's the oldest age. We're not giving up the amendment and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73038	Thank you. Before moving to the next amendment, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Zagreb Management School. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Give it up! We now move on to amendment of SDP's Representatives Club number 148.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73039	The Committee shall adopt the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73040	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. We're going to Amendment Club of GLASs and HSU No. 220.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73041	Amendment 220 to Art. Ten. The board doesn't accept. It is true that there is no need to supplement the proposed provision with other additional reports because it is prescribed that the working body of the Croatian Parliament may, on the basis of the conclusion, propose to the Croatian Parliament that reports which are not covered by the provision of Article. 10., section 2. of the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure shall hold a debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73042	Comrade Beus-Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the purpose of this amendment is that something that is so important, it is mandatory at the session, or remains at the plenary session. For example, if you look closely, the funds, the extra budget funds that are available to the funds in question, are almost worth half of the Republic of Croatia's budget. So it's a matter of extreme importance to how public funds are available. If we bring this down only to the relevant parliamentary committee, and you know that it is in practice, then 7-8 MPs who decide on it, we think it is not good and that it is a subject that must not only be discussed, not a subject but a subject, but decided by the Croatian Parliament. Especially in light of the fact that our pension funds, including the HZZO, are very weak points of our system and as you know, we are being criticised for not taking the necessary actions in the reform of these two areas – pension and health care, and for failing to resuscitate and monitor the situation properly. Therefore, we ask that these topics be left to the administration in the jurisdiction of the plenary session. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73044	Let's move on. Amendment of the Independent Lists Club number 221.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73045	The Committee does not accept Amendment 221, also in Article. 10. Because the regulation of the provision in this way will allow discussion of the proposed reports and rules of procedure by the expert public and at the same time allow any representative who wishes to take part in the debate to do so. Because although certain representatives are not members of individual working bodies, they can attend and participate in the debate at their sessions that they have done so far and will certainly do so from now on. It is also foreseen that the working body of the Croatian Parliament may, on the basis of the conclusion, propose that the report and the Rules of Procedure of the debate are also held at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, although not covered by the provision of Article. Article 10(2), proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73046	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73047	Thank you, Mr. President. We consider it unacceptable to amend the article. 44. on reports from some bodies and legal persons who submit their reports to the Assembly and that the debate is conducted exclusively on the working bodies. It is the reports involving thousands and thousands of citizens, therefore, that are the reports of FINA, HINA, the Committee on Ethics and Science, the Council on Electronic Media, the Supervisory Board of the HRT, and we believe that it is of interest that these reports be held in public debate and not only on the working bodies, since most of the clubs of the representatives do not have their members in the working bodies, so these clubs, their representatives, would be prevented from discussing these reports. In addition, it may theoretically happen that some of these reports are parallel to the working bodies and the representative cannot be in the working bodies at the same time in two places and we ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73048	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number 226, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73049	Amendment 226 to Article 11 of the Committee does not accept this intervention as it is not really necessary. In particular, Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, already provided for the possibility that the proposal for a meeting of the working body including the thematic session may be requested by the Assembly, the President of the Parliament or at least 1/3 of the members of the working body. In that case, the President of the Working Body shall convene a meeting of the Working Body no later than 8 days from the date of receipt of the request from the authorising applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73050	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73051	Mr. President, we accept the proposal's explanation, we would only ask that this explanation be provided to the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in order to give an opinion if necessary later. We're withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73052	Thank you. Let's move on, 248th, amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73053	Amendment 248 to Article 11 of the Committee does not accept. Namely, the committee's proposal does not accept the amendments because, in practice, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament have seen the need to prescribe such a provision, although most working bodies call thematic meetings because of their specific nature based on the conclusion of the working body. This allows all members of the working body to express their position on the need to convene the thematic sessions, in addition to the provision of Article 49, as stated in the previous explanation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the possibility of a proposal for a meeting of the working body including the thematic sessions may be requested by the Assembly, the President of the Assembly or at least 1/3 of the members of the working body. In that case, the President of the Working Body shall convene a meeting of the Working Body no later than 8 days from the receipt of the request from the authorising applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73054	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73055	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you for an interpretation that remains. In your proposal, you wrote that you call a thematic session based on the conclusion of the working bodies and delivers a proposal no later than 3 days before holding the thematic session. I'd ask the key question, what's the thematic session? So, he would read what the Rules of Procedure says, that in the working body of the Parliament he would discuss proposals and incentives for the adoption of laws and other acts and other questions from the Parliament's section. Unfortunately, it is not explained anywhere that it is a thematic session, so it remains the possibility that the president of the body can call it within the regular session, that we call it thematically, it was clear to point out some importance, but it is not foreseen by the very proposal of the Rules of Procedure or mentioned, so you have introduced this proposal a new concept, in fact only with the intention to limit the call of such a session but you have forgotten that thematic one, I have asked for it, I do not find what a thematic session is, so I would ask you to supplement the proposal of the Rules of Procedure and to explain what a thematic session is. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73056	Thank you. We are now going to the amendment of Ines Strenja-Linić under number 249.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73057	Amendment 249 to Article 11 of the Committee does not accept the need for the regulation of that provision, since in practice, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament have seen the need for the regulation of that provision, although the majority of the working bodies convene the thematic meetings on the basis of the completion of the working body. So, the same answer as the previous one, thus allowing all members of the working body to express their position on the need to convene thematic sessions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed the possibility that the proposal for a meeting of the working body, including the thematic sessions, may be requested by the Assembly, the President of the Assembly or at least 1/3 of the members of the working body. In that case, the President of the Working Body shall convene a meeting of the Working Body no later than 8 days from the receipt of the request from the authorising applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73058	Thank you. Since there is no colleague, we will have to vote on that amendment then. Now let's go to Amendment 253. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73059	Amendment No 253 does not accept Article 12 of the Committee as it considers that the provision in question is regulated in a sufficiently comprehensive and clear manner and does not need to be amended.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73060	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73061	... And if that were in the spirit of Croatian language, I have watched the translation of the word hearings which is the original English term that applies in other Parliaments to such debates which call for experts and public hearings would be translated into the spirit of Croatian language as a public debate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Secondly, we propose that this public debate is about obtaining expert opinions or a broader debate on the proposal for an act and on another issue. The President may organise on his initiative, but he is obliged to do so at the request of the Working Body. Therefore, not most, as proposed in the proposal set out by the Constitution Committee. This is followed by a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and other parliaments that have installed such a provision, precisely in order to organise the public debate when the opposition's representatives so require. This is the right of the opposition, which puts a certain issue on the agenda, to be discussed and is present in a series of documents that determine the rights of opposition MPs in a democratic parliament and therefore ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73062	Okay. Let's now go to three amendments, which the board accepts. The first one is 290 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73063	The Committee shall be adopted and Amendment 290 to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73064	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Amendment 307 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73065	The Committee shall adopt amendments 307 to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73066	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. And under 309 also the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73067	The Committee shall be adopted and Amendment 309 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73068	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Now we're going to Amendment 316 to Agent Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73069	Amendment 316 to Art. 17. The Committee does not accept, since it considers that it is not necessary to further supplement the provision since the assessment of the effects of the regulations is governed by a specific regulation, in which a regulation procedure is laid down and regulated. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament regulates the internal structure and mode of work of the Croatian Parliament, and this is regulated by a special regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73070	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73071	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Reiner's problem is in the following, the Law on Impact Assessment of Regulations is prescribed which bodies are competent, which entities are responsible for assessing the effects of the regulations. Representatives shall not be responsible for assessing the effects of the regulations. I do not know how a representative who proposes a certain law will carry out an impact assessment of the rules and must follow the Rules of Procedure. How he will do so, if the law provides precisely which bodies do so, which entities do, and these entities are not in the jurisdiction of the representatives or the assembly. They're in the power of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the law itself says that the assessment only works by the government. We have now added to the Rules of Procedure a provision which is invulnerable. In order to implement such a provision, I believe it is necessary to form a service in the Croatian Parliament to deal with the assessment of the effects of the regulations. If we don't have that service, then the rule in the Rules of Procedure is complete, so I'd say it sucks. So I'm asking for a vote for that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73072	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 317. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73073	Amendment No 317 to Art. 18. The Committee does not accept, because it considers that the provision is governed in a manner that corresponds to the meaning and content of the business provisions relating to the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73074	You are not interested in commenting, you have not followed. 317.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73075	I got a little distracted here, actually, it's my fault. So this is about, we understand the Commissioner's intensities that on Fridays, when the Proposer makes additional amendments after the debate to expose clubs, there's no replicas to clubs. We estimate that sometimes there is a need for this, and we have proposed to the Proposer to prescribe then some minor restriction, but we hold that at this point that we can accept the explanation of the proposer. We will withdraw the amendment, and if there is any abuse by the Government and the Proposer, it is used to make too many amendments proposed after the debate is conducted, then we will intervene later. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73076	Thank you. We are going to Amendment 320 of the Representatives' Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73077	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Committee does not accept, because it considers that the provision is governed in a manner that corresponds to the meaning and content of the business provisions relating to the amendments. In fact, the same answer as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73078	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73079	Thank you very much. We have suggested that this Art. 18. deletes with a reason that it is not acceptable for us to abolish the right to replication in that case, since the submission of amendments to the final draft of the law, and after the debate on this proposal of the law makes it impossible for legislators to, by means of a replication of the answers, to be submitted to the applicant explaining the amendments. For this reason, we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73080	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 321. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73081	Amendment 321. The Committee does not accept because it considers that the provision is governed in a manner that corresponds to the meaning and content of the business provisions relating to the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73082	Dear comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73083	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I must conclude that I am, in principle, sorry that only two parties agreed on this Rules of Procedure, two parties that are constantly in cohabitation, two parties that are already in an informally large coalition, which is actually... only the role of the opposition and in some way all this effort that we have put together both those 32-hour marathon sessions, in writing numerous amendments and alarming the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, I am sorry, on the other hand I am glad, because we see, therefore, that coalition works and in other areas is that there is essentially no significant difference between the two parties, so we can argue that this only adds to one party in Croatia. The proposed amendments, i.e. by your agreement, only two parties in the Assembly have the right to propose laws that will come into debate and we reject this whole agreement. As far as this particular amendment is concerned, we feel that they are limited by the freedom of speech of MPs, and for this reason we are asking to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73084	Thank you. Let's move on, 326. Amendment to the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73085	Amendment 326 to Article 19 of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73086	It becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 347, same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73087	Amendment 347 to Article 21 of the Committee shall be adopted in the amended form, so as to read: Article 21(2), which reads as follows: a new paragraph 4 is added: the President of the Croatian Parliament will, in the order of debate for the next 7 days, be classified and the debate will be held for that item of the agenda requested by at least 30 MPs, which is on the agenda for at least 60 days. The representative has the right to sign only one request during the same month. Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73088	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73089	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 360 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73090	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73091	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. We're going to Amendment 400. It's a live wall representative's club and SNAG's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73092	The amendment 400 to Article 25 of the Committee does not accept this as it seeks to contribute to the greater quality and dynamics of the discussions themselves. The proposed changes do not restrict the right of MPs, representatives' speeches, but seek exclusively to encourage MPs to express their views, opinions and suggestions through individual debates that require prior expert preparation on the subject under discussion in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73093	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73094	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And what else could we have expected from you in the first place, except by the thousandth time you reject all the amendments proposed by the Living Wall. You think that by means of procedural violence and censorship, you will be able to prevent the growth of our rating. But everything you've done so far has proved to be completely missed, so this is how it's going to be done. Because the only way to keep your HDZ rating is that your government has results, and your government has no results. And to abolish the full right of speech to all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, your rating will continue to fall. It's not our fault. It's not our fault that you haven't solved the problems of Agrokor, shipbuilding, demographic reconstruction, corruption and that your party is shooting at your stitches. Therefore, only you continue to use devious methods, invent new Rules of Procedure, rules of electoral legislation, attack us in all possible ways, but in vain the efforts of your players, simply the ratings will continue to fall on you, therefore, so whether you accept this amendment or not. No matter what, we are asking for a vote on this amendment because we believe there are still enough honest and honest MPs in the assembly to fight against restrictions on freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73095	Amendment 401. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73096	The amendment of the 401s to Article 25 does not accept with the same explanation because such arrangements by the Replica Institute seek to contribute to greater quality and dynamics of the debate itself, and the proposed changes do not restrict the right of representatives to speak, but seek exclusively to encourage MPs to express their views, opinions and suggestions through individual debates that require prior expert preparation on the subject under discussion in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73097	Here you go, pal Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73098	Thank you, President of the Parliament. We don't agree with the motionary's position because we think the one-minute replica doesn't have to, and then you shut it down completely. Here's just until I say hello to the President of the Parliament and thank you for getting my word, but for one minute it expires, and I believe the President of the Parliament would be angry if I didn't say hello and it wouldn't be fair not to say hello, so there's no point in staying a replica for one minute and we have the right to only 3 replicas per topic. Why exactly three, it doesn't explain why exactly three? Why not 6, 7 or none? Our proposal is to stay for two minutes and then be 5 replicas per topic especially when the laws that are important for the functioning of agriculture, the economy and something, why don't you state five times one attitude, maybe sometimes sit in your ear and then accept which amendment of the HSS. We're looking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73099	You were right in a minute, you welcomed me, you said everything, and there were two seconds left. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you, let's move on. The number 402 is the amendment of MP Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73100	Amendment 402. to Article 25 of the Committee does not agree with the same reasoning because such arrangements by the Replica Institute seek to contribute to greater quality and dynamics of the debate, and the proposed changes do not restrict the right of representatives to speak, but seek only to encourage MPs to express their views, opinions and suggestions through individual discussions that require prior expert preparation on the subject under discussion in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73101	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73102	What am I going to do? I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73103	Thank you. So the amendment was withdrawn, that's right. We're now going to Amendment 403. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73104	Amendment 403 to Article 25 of the Committee accepts, in part, that: Article 25(2) of the sentence: if the basic exposure is made by two representatives of the club, a single representative may only replicate one of them, it shall be deleted. In paragraph 4, behind the words of the chair, the president is added to get rid of the representative of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73105	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73106	Consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73107	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number 404 of the Bridge Representatives' Independent Lists Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73108	Amendment 404 to Article 25 of the Committee does not accept. Namely, this arrangement of the Replica Institute seeks to contribute to greater quality and dynamics of the debate itself, and the proposed changes do not restrict the right of representatives to speak, but seek exclusively to encourage representatives to express their views, opinions and suggestions through individual debates that require prior expert preparation on the topic discussed in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73109	Who's going on behalf of the Bridge Club? Dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So Article 25 is restrictive, we understand that if you want to improve the dynamics of the debate, the quality of the debate as you speak, however laws are passed in the Assembly. The laws regularly have a large number of provisions and articles and any restrictions or reduction of representation rights if you reduce the number of replicas to only three, especially since the Government's representative has only 30 minutes at his disposal in the opening statement and it can occur during the debate each time, unlimited number of times while the debate takes place for a word of five minutes. So this puts the Government's representative in a position of authority towards a representative in the Croatian Parliament and we find that inadmissible. It is not unacceptable if you reduce it to a minute, the office will say in a minute, but the reduction in only three replicas creates a certain limit, although the representative quality preparation for the debate is not allowing a large number of articles of the law to express dissatisfaction with what the law sees as controversial. So we believe that such a restriction on the work of the MPs is not acceptable. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73111	Thank you. We are now going to Amendment 412 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73112	Amendment 412 to Article 26 of the Committee does not accept that, in the practice of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the need to prescribe a different time for the presentation of the speech of the representatives regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has been seen and the provision has been amended in a proposed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73113	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73114	This change itself wouldn't be a problem if we didn't have a whole series of amendments that go into reducing the rights of MPs. Here's my colleague, Žagar, talking about reducing the number of replicas, reducing the time for replications, reducing the time for violations of the Rules of Procedure, reducing the number of breaks, so it's obvious that this is what some colleagues here in the assembly have said, that these new political options that they have taken over by their activity, work, energy in the Croatian Parliament are dominated here in the assembly that now they need to be aware of within the frameworks. But we will find ways to talk about the topics for which the citizens elected us to this Croatian Parliament, when we fought in that night action and we were here all night and we fought so that we could open topics that matter to citizens. In the end, you were forced to give in, although you were more in favour of your colleagues from the SDP and practically this new Rules of Procedure that will be passed, it is the Rules of Procedure that go in favour of the two most numerous political groups in this House, practically the opposition will not be able to, and you are in doing so to praise nor the laws because you will have to ask your colleagues from the SDP to give their signatures for certain legislative proposals, so that it is clear which was intended from the beginning, we understand the implementation and the clear objective of these amendments of the Rules of Procedure. But it will also show the time coming that these new political options will grow, and that you will lose the trust of Croatian citizens because of this political trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73115	You're asking for a vote. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to Amendment 442, too, to the Alliance of Independent Lists Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73116	Amendment 442 to Article 27 of the Committee does not accept that, in the practice of the work of the Croatian Parliament, the need for a different regulation of the provision relating to the possibility of giving notice by taking away a word in case the representative starts to talk about another topic he has not received, if he has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73117	Who's going on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club? Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73118	Mr. President. We do not accept the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposing the addition of Article 240 in such a way that the MP who starts talking about another topic he did not receive, if he has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President may give notice by taking the floor away until the end of the debate on the subject under discussion. We consider this power to be excessive and disproportionate by the president and would allow, for example, that if such sanctions were applied at the beginning of the debate, it would prevent the representative from later speaking on behalf of the club, having an individual discussion and thus replicating the authority in certain situations might also be misused. For this reason, we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73119	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 464 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73120	Amendment 464 does not accept Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure as it clearly states that a decision to unify the debate is taken on the basis of the consent of the majority of the representatives present, which does not imply a decision by the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73121	A fellow Downhill, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73122	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the position of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. However, it is not acceptable for us at the Most Representatives' Club for the following reasons. The decision of the majority of MPs present at the session to hold a united debate instead of the agreement of clubs and opposition representatives may be misused because it is logical to assume that the parliamentary majority, if it wishes, can provide most of the representatives present. So in situations where the parliamentary majority would like to do so, there is no possibility of an opposition that there are more MPs in the overvote than there are parliamentary majority. If, then, the parliamentary majority in a situation, for example, concludes that they want a united debate on five, six or seven laws that are similar because they come from the same ministry or have certain points of contact, for example, and that it refers to tax reform in which five, six or more laws are amended. The parliamentary majority could, therefore, by a simple fact that there are more MPs to vote in a united debate with opposition, perhaps all representatives of opposition clubs. So this isn't insignificant authority. In certain situations, important legislative proposals could be abused by the parliamentary majority and therefore we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73123	All right. Then let's now go to the 469th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73124	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73125	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Amendment 471. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73126	Amendment 471 to Article 30 of the Committee does not accept. Namely, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are a regulation of special importance for the regulation of the internal structure and way of working of the Parliament and it should contribute to its greater democratisation and work efficiency. So far, the current provision relating to the break in practice has not reached the stated purpose, and its different arrangements have therefore been proposed, while at the same time prescribing the possibility of a representative club’s position in the new Article 249a. It is not possible for MPs to simultaneously use their right to freedom of speech, especially given the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the public work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73127	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73128	Thank you very much. This is why the Rules of Procedure is changed, because, of course, the topics that parliamentary deputies have opened here and which is why they have been paid to take breaks, warn, propose through breaks and impose citizens' interests rather than the interests of political elites that have led to the situation of the state. The fact is, personally, if there hadn't been a break from the Perun thermal power plant, it would have probably been built today. In addition to the replicas that you defend to the parliamentary representatives, i.e. which restricts the right of the freedoms achieved, of course, in agreement with the majority and the SDP, that in this way we are not paid to come at all from those who chose us because we simply cannot, we cannot choose about restrictions, we cannot defend the interests of the people here in the way that they chose us, and they chose us to talk about the problems of the people on the ground. And we'll find models, personally I'll find a way, I won't have to come to this House at all because simply the costs that are huge for travel expenses from Sinj to Zagreb and you forbid me from talking to me and my colleagues. Where do you get this right to reduce the rights of speech to representatives whom the people have chosen? You have no right to do so, and you have done this proposal by reducing the number of breaks to one in the afternoon, as you have pityd once a week will be in the morning. This is the most embarrassing proposal. I know we're getting on your nerves, and I know that we've disrupted your interests, and that with this proposal, you just want to stop a few individuals here, to point out the topics that are hurting you and that have led this country to this. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73129	Thank you. We're going to the 472nd Amendment of the Living Wall and the Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73130	Amendment 472. to Article 30, which refers to the same thing, has the same explanation. Namely, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are a regulation of special importance for the regulation of the internal structure and way of working of the Parliament and it should contribute to its greater democratisation, working efficiency. The current provisions relating to the break in practice have not reached the stated purpose, and its different arrangements have been proposed, while at the same time prescribing the possibility of taking the position of the Club of Representatives in the new Article 249a. It is not possible for MPs to use their right to freedom of speech at the same time, especially given the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the Public Works of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73131	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is good for the Croatian public to see what the ruling majority is up to. It deals with itself all the time, with its problems, with internal wars. And when it comes to discussing child poverty, corruption, whistles, Agrokor, children's allowance, then there is no one. Because power is its purpose, it's important that the pay goes, to ensure a good pension, that we can paint at dinners and foster homes, and no one does anything about why MPs don't come to work. I'd like to see one provision in the Rules of Procedure that would sanction the lack of work. But it is important that the break be put on after the vote that all HDZ MPs can immediately flee after the vote they normally do every Friday so that they are not forced to listen to real problems in the country. It is very sad and in fact very much derivating the very institution of the Parliament and the very institution of democracy, and it is no wonder that citizens give us such a bad grade because they see that the MPs apply some other rules than they do to other citizens. While other citizens have to work hard for eight hours, they must not be left out of their jobs for five minutes, parliamentary representatives have the right to come to work every week for 20 minutes, and that is precisely what you allow your Rules of Procedure to do, which is why you have created a major social imbalance that makes citizens lose their trust not only in institutions but also lose their trust and go to their own country without any remorse abroad. As far as this particular amendment is concerned, I'm asking for a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73133	Thank you. We're going to the 473th Amendment of Representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73134	Amendment 473 to Article 30 is, in fact, the same as this previous one, and it is the same reason that so far, the current provision relating to the break has not in practice reached the stated purpose, so its different arrangements have been proposed, while at the same time prescribing the possibility of a representative club’s position in the new Article 249a. It is not possible for MPs to simultaneously use their right to freedom of speech, especially given the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the public work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73135	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73136	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. No colleague Reiner, the break has just reached its purpose. People have just chosen us to talk at the break about what they chose us for, not what you would like to talk about, and this very amendment of the Rules of Procedure says that the break has reached its purpose because it has started to bother you very much. However, since I cannot achieve anything with the vote, I am giving up the vote and withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73137	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 488. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73138	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73139	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Amendment 489. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73140	Amendment 489 to Article 32 of the Committee accepts the amended form as follows: Article 32(1) is amended and reads as follows: on the first day of the session session, the representative of the club of representatives may request to state the position of the club of representatives on any topic in the time between 9:30 and 10.45 hours, the rest of the days between 13:00 and 14,15 hours, and Friday after the vote. Paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: Exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this Article, the presentation of the position of the club of representatives may be requested after the maintenance of the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73141	Your Honor. We accept that this modified form, we would just like to note that until now, the practice has been that Friday is not every day of voting, so it is understood if it is after the debate. Consent, all right. In this regard, we are not asking for a vote on the remainder, and since there are similar amendments, we will support this second part in the vote of other applicants. Thank you. We accept the proposal's argument and do not ask for an additional vote on the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73142	Thank you. We're going to the 492nd Amendment of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73143	Amendment 492 to Article 32 of the Committee does not accept the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, so it was not necessary to accept the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73144	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73145	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. We're going to ask for a vote on this amendment, but I have to admit it's all a surprise to me together. It's about a technical amendment, it's about having a chance to see that the President of the Parliament really gives us the agenda, so we know when something's in the agenda, and we just wanted to introduce some sort of pozance or some topic that the representatives' clubs are starting in the morning with their breaks if they have needs and that we have a normal plenary session behind it and that at no time is interrupted. So I appreciate that this is really about introducing order into the work of the Parliament, and I'm surprised that you decided not to accept this amendment because the whole Rules of Procedure's explanation goes in that sense to speed up Parliament's work, and this is how we're going to interrupt and have breaks. We think it's much better to have a break in the morning and that behind that plenary session takes place according to the agenda proposed. As I was saying, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73146	Okay. Then it is now the amendment to 493th Representative Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73147	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73148	Thank you. Since there are no colleagues, we are going to Amendment 494, the amendment of the Alliance of Independent Lists' Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73149	Amendment 494 to Article 32 of the Committee does not accept that such a determination of time would, in particular, take into account the accepted amendments that we recently accepted in which representatives' clubs would present their views would not disrupt the continuity of the debate and the work of the Croatian Parliament, nor the freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73150	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73151	This is another proof of a very perfiduous attempt to take away the right to speak to the parliamentary deputies. If the practice so far was to have a break before the beginning of the session, if you were late at 9.30 we could start at 8:00. I'm every morning if you're nine and a half late we could start at 8:00. I'm at the club every morning at 8:00, so since 8:00 a.m., let's open up those themes. But they get on your nerves and they bother you because individuals here are opening topics that don't suit you. And MPs have this obligation and are therefore chosen to open these topics, so you cannot subdue the entire Rules of Procedure to the ruling in the Government, i.e. You're dealing with these things, and last night was in the process of a very important law, the Whistle Act, about their protection in the fight against corruption, that's not what we're talking about. No one's been here all the way from the government, and here you defend freedom of speech to the MPs and block the opposition in their work, including most. Each representative of us must express his position in the way that voters chose him. I don't see any sense in this House. You could have brought a simple article here, you'd vote what we tell you to. You will do as we say. You are taking away the rights of freedom of speech and not only in the Croatian Parliament, you did so on Croatian Radio Television. That's journalist Maja Sever, that's Tihomir Dujmovic, that's Mr. Sikanjic, who was the most critical of MOST. But as soon as he mentioned the HNS chief of the coalition partner, you immediately tried to move him, but we were the first to stand behind the man, and he stayed. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment and there's really no point in democracy in this country anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73152	We're going to the 495th Amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73153	The amendment 495 to Article 32, which is actually the same as in this previous one, has the same explanation that the Committee does not accept it because it considers that this arrangement of time, especially in view of the amendments already accepted, in which the club of representatives would present its views, would not distort the continuity of the debate and the work of the Croatian Parliament, nor the freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73154	Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73155	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I don't think there's any need to cancel the five-minute break the way it's been so far, because those five minutes essentially don't disturb the very parliamentary debate itself. It's a very short time, and we see that the debates sometimes end at 15 and at 16 o'clock, and they start at half past 10. So MPs do the whole agenda in four to five hours and in no way does that break take them away from their right to work. What is the intensity of the legislator is that only European laws are being discussed here, and we have seen the laws that discuss how much gas there will be in air conditioning, on which website some data will be published, how many eggs can be taken by zoos in nests, etc. It means total marginality while the Croatian people have a thousand problems to solve. Here is the principle of party discipline, as in the age of Stalinism. We'll have people robots who will nod their noses all the time, who will follow the orders of a great boss without any critical thinking, without getting to know the subject, without calling for conscience and all the other things that any normal free individual should have in a democratic state. Therefore, we ask that the break remain in the form it is and for this reason we ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73156	Thank you, too. The 496th Amendment of Representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73157	Amendment 496 to Article 32, therefore, to the same article with a similar request and similar explanation, why the committee does not accept it, because it is considered that with such a determination of time, especially considering previously accepted amendments in which representatives' clubs would present their views do not distort the continuity of the debate and the work of the Croatian Parliament, and in no way threatens freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73158	A colleague of Alexic's is gone, and then we'll vote for that amendment. We're going to Amendment number 501. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73159	Amendment No 501 to Article 33 of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73160	It becomes an integral part of the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Amendment 509. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73161	Amendment 509 to Article 37 of the Committee does not accept, as it considers that the proposed amendment to the provision of Article 272 is appropriate to regulate the selection, appointment and resolution of the President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the President, Vice-President and members of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73162	Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73163	Mr. President, President of the Committee. If we were expecting some club amendment that the board would accept it then it was certainly this one. We have proposed to amend the second paragraph of the provision, which states: The appointment and resolution of the President and Vice-President of the Assembly may be proposed by representatives clubs or at least 40 MPs. So I could say that provision in another way, that the appointment and resolution of the president and vice president could suggest three MPs or at least 40 MPs. Does that make any sense to you? That they may propose three MPs or at least 40 MPs, as the club representatives may have at least 3 representatives. So the provision, as proposed by the Committee, enables a proposal for the resolution of President-in-Office of the Parliament to propose three representatives, so one club of three representatives. But then why these extra words or at least 40. Be careful if it's at least 40, how it corresponds to a club of at least three. We wanted to separate it with the amendment, so the proposal to appoint the president's resolution can be addressed by at least 40 MPs, but it is still the president, and for the vice presidents of the Parliament that clubs can do so, and that's what clubs have often done. So when, for their own reasons, they changed the vice president who was from their ranks and that club had the right to change the vice president they themselves proposed, for example during the appointment. So it would be logical to really accept this proposal and ask for a statement...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73164	Thank you. Let's go to the last amendment to the 518 Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73165	Amendment No 518 to Article 39 of the Committee does not accept because the entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is in accordance with the provision of Article 90. The Constitution of the
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73166	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73167	Your Honor. Here we came to the end of these amendments that were all essential, we withdrew these amendments that were repeated because it was done by colleagues from the SDP then it didn't make sense to go into any further obstructions. I asked my colleagues from the SDP to resist the Syrian name of the HDZ because they too, if this is the case, would match the political groups with the most parliamentary MPs, but the SDP colleagues did not resist it, they agreed to crumbs from the HDZ table, which is that once a week we will have a morning break and that we will be able to propose one law as an opposition. But of course, this crucial role will be played by the SDP and we hope that this law, which we announced this morning, is already in the Rules of Procedure for a year to support it. However, this progress with these two amendments is compared to what was proposed by the HDZ, so that is one step ahead, but I think it could have been a lot more. And what we have asked through this amendment that the Rules of Procedure not immediately enter into force but only for the next assembly of the Parliament are also the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly on the procedural guidelines on the rights and responsibilities of the opposition, however, there was no hearing about it either. And what is certain is that the ruling will now take great advantage of each law that the motionor will be able to take the word whenever he wants. Of course, the motionor's position, or the government's position, agrees with the ruling representatives' position, that in a somewhat worse position there will be colleagues from the SDP of the opposition, that in the worst position there will be representatives who have the best advocate, and in the first place live the Wall, and then the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73168	Thank you. You're looking for a guess vote. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. This led us to the end of the debate. I thank Vice President Reiner. The amendment notice and the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will be voted on Friday, so in the framework of the regular vote. We are voting on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure. On amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the amendment tabled must be agreed on by the majority of the representatives present, and I therefore give the motion to hold a debate on the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please, let's vote. I would like to say that we have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system for the majority of votes, 90 for and 3 abstentions, so I would like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the amendment submitted. Dear colleague Reiner, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73170	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System submitted the following amendment to the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements. 20. The amendment reads as follows: Art. 20 is wiped out. On the occasion of the amendment, amendments to the Club of Representatives of the SDP were accepted, which were proposed not to repeal the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and to propose that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73171	I'm opening a debate on this amendment. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 199, 2nd century, only representatives of the club representatives can participate in the debate. Is anyone picking up? If no one answers, I will conclude the debate and put the amendments to the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, we have adopted the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We will now move to a decision on the amendments that we agreed on on Wednesday, March 21, 2018, and we will go in turn. It is the first amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives. He's retired. The 10th Amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives has also been withdrawn. The 13th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, withdrawn and the 15th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, has been withdrawn. The 20th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, to Art. 4. The board didn't accept it. The promoter asked for a vote. Let us therefore vote on Amendment No. 20. The MOST representative club, which the applicant did not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 66. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Art. 8. The board didn't accept it either. The promoter asked for a vote, so let's also vote on this amendment. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to Amendment 109 of the SDP Representatives Club, Art. Nine. The committee did not accept the amendment and the motion requested a vote, so let's also vote on it. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 143. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in Art. Nine. The board didn't accept. The promoter asked for a vote, so I ask you to join the vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment 148 of the SDP Representatives Club in Art. Ten. The Committee adopted the proposed amendment and became an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment 220. The Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU in Art. Ten. The board didn't accept. The promoter asked for a vote. Please let us vote. I also find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. 221st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Art. Ten. The board didn't accept. The promoter asked for a vote. Please let us vote on that amendment. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 226. SDP representative's club in Art. 11th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 248. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in Art. 11. The board didn't accept. The promoter asked for a vote. Please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 249. 11. The Committee did not accept, and since the proposal was not present at the amendment statement, we will vote on the proposed amendment which the Committee does not accept. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 253. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Art. 253. 12. The board didn't accept. The promoter asked for a vote, so please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 290. The SDP representative club, as referred to in Article 13. The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 307. Amendment of the same club of representatives, to Art. 307. 15. The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 309th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 16 The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment 316 of Representative Goran Aleksic, Art. 17. The board didn't accept it, the motioner asked us to vote, so I'm asking you to vote. Amendment No 317. The SDP representative's club was withdrawn on Article 18. Amendment 320. The Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists in Art. 18. The board has not accepted, the motion has asked for a vote, please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 321th Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, to Article 18. The board didn't accept, the motioner asked for a vote, please let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 326. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 19. The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club No 347 to Article 21. The Committee also accepted, in an amended form, and agreed on the same proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment 400. The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA in Art. 25. The board didn't accept it, and the motioner asked us to vote, so I'm asking you to vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 401. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the European Parliament and the Council in The board has not accepted and the motion has requested a vote, please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 402 of MP Goran Aleksic to Article 25 has been withdrawn. Amendment 403. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 25. The Committee, in part, accepts, therefore, the amendment was accepted by the Committee's SDP Representatives Club, so it was partially accepted and the same applicant agreed. Amendment 404. Adviser's Club of the Independent Lists Bridge on Article 25. The board didn't accept it, so the motioner asked for a vote, please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 412th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Bridge, to Article 26. The board didn't accept it, the motioner asked for a vote, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 442. Adviser's Club of the Independent Lists Bridge on Article 27. The board has not accepted, the motion has asked for a vote, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. 464. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Bridge to Article 29. The board didn't accept it, the motioner asked for a vote, please let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Before moving to the next amendment, let me just welcome the students and pupils and their teachers and professors of the Commercial and Commercial School of Bjelovar, welcome to the Croatian Assembly... We're going to Amendment 469. [[Applause.]] Article 30 of the HDZ Representatives' Club The Committee adopted the proposed amendment and became an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 471st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Bridge on Article 30. The board didn't accept, the motioner asked for a vote, please let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 472. Amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, to Article 30. The board didn't accept it, the motioner asked us to vote, so I'm asking you to vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to the 473rd Amendment of Representative Goran Aleksic to Article 30 he was withdrawn. 488th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 32 The Committee has accepted and becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 489th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 32 The Committee adopted the amended form and agreed on the same proposal. 492th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU to Article 32 The board didn't accept it, so the motioner asked for a vote, please let us vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 493rd Amendment of MP Vlaha Orepić to Article 32 The Committee accepted the amended form, since the applicant was not present and did not declare whether the amendment in the amended form accepted or not, I would ask the representative to declare the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73172	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-01-0.u73173	Then he becomes an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. We don't have to vote, do we? We don't need to. Amendment 494 of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Bridge to Article 32 The board didn't accept, the motioner asked for a vote, please let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. In 495, the amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club to Article 32 was not accepted by the Committee and the Proposer asked for a vote. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 496th Amendment of Representative Goran Aleksic to Article 32 has not been accepted by the Committee, and the proposer has not been present at the declaration of the amendment. We will vote on a proposed amendment which the committee does not accept. Let's vote please. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 501st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 33 of the Committee adopted and became an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. 509th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists on Article 37 of the Committee has not been accepted. The promoter asked for a vote. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 518th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists on Article 39th of the Committee has not been accepted. The promoter asked for a vote. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now move to a decision on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to stress that the adoption of the Rules of Procedure requires half the majority of all MPs 76 under Article 252 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 91 for, 7 abstentions and 18 votes against the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
