ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u92472	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This government does not intend to regulate the health system so that it works rather than implement its reforms exclusively on the burden of citizens at the cost of even reducing health care. Instead of the concept "whoever has more, let him pay more", the government introduces the concept "who has money, will be treated". In Croatia at this time, millions of people live on the poverty line, and that means they can't even buy regular Paracetamol. The government forgets that a large number of citizens have a lower salary than average, that the vast majority of citizens still do not receive salaries regularly, that there is work on black and that pensioners have small pensions. It is obvious that for this government, reforms are going to harm citizens rather than reforming the situation and that health care becomes what it is, the public service of citizens. Over the past few months, we have been listening to government and Minister Kujundzic and Prime Minister Plenkovic's promises, waiting lists will decrease, they have not decreased. We will invest in health care from European funds; we have seen little or no of it. We'll pay back our health debts by 2018, not that they're not paid back, but we have 8 billion kunas in health care. I'm asking the government why she didn't comply with the labour law so that workers who stopped working while they were sick would get paid while they were sick, but the right would be limited to only 30 days. I ask the Government, why did the proposed laws not deign to resolve the doctor's working time issue in order to bring their working hours in line with the Working Time Directive? I ask the Government, how do I explain to the European Commission the abolition of employment contributions and the increase of health contributions that are becoming one of the highest in Europe? Minister Kujundzic is a minister who takes citizens, increases health leave, but this will not lead to better health care, that we have more available healthcare. And it is regrettable that all the measures of this government in health are brought down to fiscal consolidation which will again be borne neither by the guilty nor by the debtors and that we have not seen a single word from the reform and rationalisation of the system. And raising health care contributions won't solve problems in the system, we won't be better at health care. Instead of political bickering, here from this pay phone I suggest that here in the Parliament we reach a final national consensus on what kind of health care we need. It is neither red nor blue nor green, it is health care of Croatian citizens. And we wouldn't be going through what's been happening in the last week, they should be taking this kind of statement from women we read today in the paper that we have a health care center that's turned to citizens and that we have a medical condition that knows what level of healthcare we can get, and not that one who has money, who goes to a private clinic, can get anesthesia in surgery, if you're in a state hospital, if that's not possible. And I therefore call on us from this pay phone to finally sit down and raise our national consensus because public health is the best liquid this country has. Public health is the one that protects the health of citizens. Privatisation in healthcare won't do any good. Privatisation in health care will lead to the division of citizens to those who have, who can pay their health and those who do not and will not be able to pay for it. I call on the government and Minister Kujundzic to sit with all of us here in the Parliament, with all parties and to agree on a consensus that our health care will be, what education we will be, how our pension system will be, the tax system, that is something we can and should agree on, without that Croatia will not go any further. And that's what citizens expect of us because fighting in the Parliament is who told whom. It won't get any better. The citizens won't live better, our health won't get better. Thank you very much and I invite you all to sit down and address the political differences and solve the problems that citizens expect from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u92473	Thank you very much. We are now on the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Court Taxes, first reading, P.Z. No. 441. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill, with us, the respected Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97673	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Court Taxes, the Law on Court Taxes is prescribed the way in which the court charges are charged, for the actions the court takes by the party in court proceedings. The creation of a new law on court fees, first of all, for the purpose of introducing, i.e., further encouraging electronic communication with courts, and in order to comply with other applicable regulations, having regard to the fact that we have changed the current text of the law six times since the adoption of the law in 1995. As regards the promotion of electronic communication by courts, with the parties, this bill shall propose a reduction in the court fee for submissions which are submitted by electronic means of 50 % of the prescribed fee, with the right to a reduction of 50% of the amount of the court fee only if the fee is paid within 3 days of the receipt of the submission. Encouraging electronic communication will result in administrative discharging of courts, which will result in speeding up court proceedings and ensuring better charges for court fees. An integral part of the applicable tariff law on court fees, which determines the amount of the duty obligation in order to facilitate the flexibility of amendments and additions to the court fees of this proposal, we propose a tariff for the future to be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Regulations. In addition to the draft law, we propose a tariff for the future to be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Regulations. In addition to this proposal, we have resolved the text explicitly and normably. It is most important to note that the fees shall be released from the duties by the Republic of Croatia and by the authorities, persons and bodies exercising public authority in the exercise of those powers, workers in disputes and other proceedings relating to the exercise of their rights in working relations, officials and deputies in administrative disputes, in relation to the exercise of their rights in official relations, persons with disabilities from the Homeland War on the basis of appropriate documents proving their status, spouses, children and parents of defenders of the deceased, missing and imprisoned in the Homeland War on the basis of appropriate documents proving their status. Husbands, children and parents, killed, missing and imprisoned in the Homeland War, on the basis of appropriate documents proving status, exiles, refugees and returnees on the basis of appropriate documents proving their status, social welfare users receiving guaranteed minimum compensation, humanitarian organisations, organisations dealing with the protection of persons with disabilities, and families of missing and incarcerated in the pursuit of humanitarian activity. Children as parties in restraint procedures or in procedures on demand on the basis of that right. Parties that initiate procedures to determine motherhood or paternity and procedures for the costs incurred by the pregnancy and delivery of an out-of-marriage child. Parties requiring the return of a business capacity, minors in the process of granting marriage permits, parties in procedures for the surrender of a child and for the pursuit of personal interests with a child, parties initiating the procedure for the rights of compulsory pension and compulsory health insurance on the rights of unemployed persons under the rules of employment and rights in the areas of social care. Parties that deny the procedures for the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms against individual acts, parties that initiate compensation proceedings for environmental pollution, trade unions and trade union associations of several levels of litigation procedures for judicial replacement consent and collective labour disputes and trade union commissioners in litigation proceedings in the exercise of the powers of the working council. Consumers as bankruptcy debtors, other persons, bodies when prescribed by special law. A foreign State shall be exempt from payment of the fee provided for in the international contract or under the condition of reciprocity, in the event of a suspicion of becoming a condition referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. The court will request an explanation from the Justice Department. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97674	Thank you. We're going to the replicas, we've got four replicas, first up, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97675	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr. Secretary of State and all others who come from the government, that when they present the laws, they do not speak about the speed of the judiciary in Croatia, it is a regulation of common sense for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when we see, that justice and the judiciary that works as it should not exist in Croatia. Look, Vidosevic, look at Sanader, where those verdicts are, well, 10 years old, but when you have to hit someone with little people, we're fast, there's a moon, two three, six months, etc. So on this side, please, Mr. Salapic, you're doing things quietly and speed up the judiciary, but don't tell the citizens here that the judiciary in Croatia is fast, because the judiciary is catastrophic, from the moment HDZ destroyed it in the '90s. Mr. Judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97676	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97677	Thank you very much, President. Dear Representative Maras, we should have talked today about a new system, how to address court fees where it is in line with the reforms we are carrying out here in the Croatian Parliament, for a long time we want to organise, digitise the system and allow citizens, that if they use modern, fast technologies, which will reduce administration, speed up court proceedings, pay judicial fees 50% less. As for these cases that you have listed here, as a parliamentary representative, I would only remind you, that in the Ministry of Justice at the time of the government, your, the diameter of Milanovic and your parliamentary majority, the minister of justice was Mr Orsat Milenić, whom I personally knew and his work I followed, so that if something had to be accelerated to change some of the things you have already stated as a representative, she could not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97678	We're going to the esteemed colleague Antu Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97679	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This promotion of electronic communication between courts and normal participants in court proceedings should be welcomed. But in practice there are several and illogicalities, I don't know the ministry is monitoring it and whether it will instruct the courts to correct it, for example. In some courts, it is not necessary to provide a certificate of payment of the fee but to automatically make a note of their accounting while in other courts it is necessary to deliver it by way of unnecessarily mail. We also know that the application by the Ministry of Justice does not cover misdemeanor and administrative courts and that we still have to mention that administrative courts do not have an e-proclaim board at all but deliver everything by mail which is both unnecessary and cost and wastes time, so that it would not be bad for the ministry to just direct the courts to make it even, so that there would be no problem in practice itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97680	Answer? You won't answer. Thank you. Then we'll go to the third line, the esteemed colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vukasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97681	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I agree with you on this, that, uh, my colleague Bačić's previous comment, I was going to say something on the subject. You did not only mention the amounts but what is important to make clear and loud that the measure of this proposal is very positive and that is to reduce the court fees by 50% for those citizens who use, who use the Internet or who want to use them, they want to use this system that we have and that is, therefore, one small segment of general information and digitisation that the state is seeking. And what you've pointed out is also very positive, and I really have to commend it, the categories of those who have been released are really, showing social sensitivity and that's positive. All I'm saying is, if all the courts are going to be covered, and not just according to this proposal, those who are and amounts to one more mention, it's very important that the citizens hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97682	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97683	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'd like to respond to the scope of your replicas. The Ministry of Justice has been constantly amending the laws, reform packages that we discussed here in the Parliament, working to modernise the information system because we would connect all the courts. If you're a merger of criminal and municipal courts, they'll relieve the courts. We're sending judges of criminal courts to the municipal court to reduce the number of cases and the entire system is working on a digital system. We are currently at 8 commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia in pilot projects using a digital system between courts, public notebooks and lawyers. And now I would take advantage of the opportunity here when we talk about the upcoming debate on the Executive Act and all the laws that follow the Executive Law package what is being said here today, it is also about this part of informing the e-Operation that will be half the cost of the persons who are being put under wraps. I would point out that there are no negative connotations about the new Law of Justice in the Ministry of Justice, there are no interested groups, the most common notions are that Christmas and social benefits will be carried out and that is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97684	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Curai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97685	I thank the President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, is absolutely commendable for the increase in both the number and the ways and the opportunity to release those who really need it most, or the poorest... However, I would like to point out here a single implementing, implementing problem of the legislator's intensity, which is that today this inability to pay a court fee is proven by a separate administrative procedure which is not a little time-consuming, requires additional fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So before the 2003 Law, if I'm not mistaken, there was enough tax administration paper on ownership and state of property and a statement that there was not enough income per household member that it represented for me whether 500 or how much kuna depends on which process it is a large amount. And that would really do you good. I know there's also a law on free legal aid to be corrected with that, but I'm asking you in that direction to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97686	Thank you. There's no answer, so let's go to the boards. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. If not, I'm opening the debate, the first club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists is the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97687	Thank you, Your Honor. To start this positive thing. So this bill introduces one good newspaper, which is a reduction in the fee for submissions delivered by electronic means, a 50% reduction if paid within 3 days of the day of submission. This is the news we welcome and hope that one day lawyers and all parties will be able to submit electronic submissions to the court by electronic means. We know that's still not the case, there are some exceptions, but we are far from e-exchange of documents between the court and the parties in the process. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also scheduled to adopt a Regulation on the tariff of court fees. This may be a step forward but it all depends on how the fees will be arranged and in which amounts they amount. In foreign systems, for example. In the German model, the calculation of court fees is based on a more complex formula where the level of the fee is determined according to the individual level of the case dispute and the price is rising exponentially as the level of the dispute naturally increases. Each dispute has its own price. With us, the system is based on classes. So the price goes from class to class. Regardless of foreign models and possible solutions here in the law, it is missed to settle this issue and we believe that this is how financial resources are lost, but it also encourages an unfair determination of the amount of the court fee. The issue of calculation and charges of court fees and this law remains a secondary issue in the Croatian judiciary and should become the primary issue. So every year the budget for the judiciary decreases, debt accumulated in the budget for years, and that money needs to be secured somewhere and the only thing the system has available is actually court fees. In this proposal, the law of a number of exceptions to the payment of court fees all points to a triple non-interested system again, although many European countries show that the system of payment of court fees should be taken seriously. If we already have such a large number of exceptions to the payment of court fees, then even if those who are not released should, without exception, pay the fee, if they do not, for them the court should not initiate a court case. Of course, there are procedures that should be initiated for the sake of their nature at least for the purpose of providing evidence or protecting certain rights of children, etc., however, the State. The court is not obliged to judge when it comes to private legal disputes such as civil litigation, out-of-party proceedings, there are exceptions and they need to be protected, so the court does so on the request of the parties. The parties are obliged to pay the court fee if they wish the court to take the decision or act. Insisting in court fees is not a restriction of the right to access the court. Exceptions should be determined and how and in what way the court must act in spite of the unpaid fee. This is a practice we see in many successful judicial systems and would certainly allow the system to breathe. It would be expected that the number of court cases would fall primarily for those who knew each other as litigation would be a known phenomenon in our system and the amount paid in the budget would certainly be higher because of the effective charge. We also suggest that consideration be given to the possibility for courts to get part of the fees paid back for their own investments and projects. We know that the courts are in a catastrophic infrastructure and material state. If a portion, at least a small fee was intended for courts, these would certainly be more motivated to charge taxes, work more and thus contribute more. Although courts should not think of income as such, let us not forget that court fees are exactly the kind of income that can benefit from filling the gaps in the court budget. In his short term, instead of continuing to accumulate debts, MOST covered hundreds of millions of kuna debts in the judiciary and brought a profit of over 80 million kuna when accumulated interest on court deposits, there were ways of saving responsible financial operations, etc. In addition to such shifts, it is necessary to rely on what is already provided but not sufficiently developed by a better and better quality system of calculation and payment of court fees, the self-sustainability of the system could be more accessible and the need for further development could be more accessible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97688	Let's go to the second club, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Independent for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97689	... Secretary, MPs and MPs. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In principle, we welcome the applicant's intensification to reduce the court fee for submissions delivered by electronic means. So that such an intention would not remain hanging in the air, i.e. In order not to practically remain inconclusive, changes to the provisions of the procedural laws relating to delivery are necessary. The legislator, by halveing the tariff of an interested citizen, can also encourage the prosecution, submissions, complaints, etc. delivers by email but it will not do so until the delivery is deemed to be of full value in the context of the amendment of the provisions of all other laws. For final decision-making, it is also necessary to have information on the extent to which the budget revenues from court fees are and the fact is that the regulation of the tax liability as an obvious interest of the State Treasury is, in fact, the right to access the court. The state and the level of the fee want to, of course, disable the so-called so-called. The obscenity litigation which is a logical and easily defensive interest but, at the same time, by prescribing a charge, it makes it practically impossible to access the court sometimes because it does not have every option or has not had to grant 5,000 kn for the suit and 5,000 kn for the verdict, which makes the maximum tariffs in the first degree litigation procedure. This cannot be seen by the introduction of a law on free legal aid, which is in fact a cartoon of that institute. Since the days of the double monarchy before 1918, the Croats had until that law acquittals from a tax ruling by the court in a concrete procedure. It was originally so that in the case itself, they asked for the release by calling for poverty, and then, at the first hearing, evidence was brought in favor of it. That was worth it until the late '90s, I think, back in the '2000s. So since then, the most just and economical version to which you have submitted the evidence has been made by our court, and then the court can decide immediately in practice at the first hearing. The law on free legal aid has been adopted within the framework of accession negotiations and effectively imposes on the debtor such procedure that only if he does not live from the collection of bottles loses interest in seeking free legal aid. In addition, there is a situation in which in such a time-consequence due to the threat of a stupor or the prelude to take some of the actions in fact, the party must not risk carrying out this cumbersome and long-term procedure but must be squeezed and somehow find the money. Thus, he is limited by a detour of the right to access a court guaranteed by the Constitution and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with the Additional Protocols. Furthermore, or one of the major interventions in the Law on Court Taxes followed with the indirect era of the government of Zoran Milanovic. In the background was not a principled interest, but rather a alleged coincidence, i.e. In the middle there was a lawsuit over the mental pain between Milan Bandic as prosecutor and Milanovic as a defendant. In the role of the defendants, the prime minister of the government, whose newspaper columnists are also now in the role of laudator Andrej Plenkovic, sang the floors as a brilliant lawyer. At that time, the brilliant lawyer Zoran Milanovic realized that he had to pay the fee and respond to the suit, so the prosecutor filed the suit as a submission, which makes it clear that he had to pay the fee, while the defendant may not have given the cause of the lawsuit, but is completely innocent, and yet he still has to pay an application to respond to the suit. After the Prime Minister publicly complained of this illogicality, the media showed the consternation of Roma lokot kausa finita, therefore, Rome, this is what Zoran Milaonvic said his own, the debate was concluded, by means of lex Perkovic, the Ministry of Justice explicitly amended the law, so now the defendant pays the fee only if and when he legally loses his case. As a matter of fact, this did not come upon the disdain of the professional and interested public, although the matter, like any other, could be challenged, because it actually encouraged the defendants today to give a public cause of the lawsuit. For example. Unauthorizedly convicted xy defendant, e.g. Ante Tomic doesn't have to pay any court fees and the prosecutor has to. A thing even more drastic about legal persons, if I am, for example, the owner of a company, for which anyone is for what reason intended to go bankrupt, e.g. Because society and state serve me only to deceive the faithful, the suppliers, etc. Then that lex Milanovic suits me, because let the believers sue me and let the litigation couple of years because I don't have to pay anything, when the thing is over then the company will go bankrupt, and the short sleeves will remain both the believer, the prosecutor and the fiscus, who eventually expected the fee. However, regardless of the logical and legally defensive facts, we are not advocates of the solution and the changes that would literally represent an extension of the tax liability. More specifically, if the amount obtained by the state budget is not particularly impressive, go in the direction of changes in a way that e.g. prescribes the obligation to pay the fee, only once for the action initiating the procedure, while the obligations and the obligation to pay the fee for all other actions will be decided by the court in the judgment, i.e., settled, ending a certain phase of the procedure of the first instance, the decision for the first-degree procedure, second-degree for the second-degree. It would also be better to propose that, instead of trusting the Government, the possibility of self-prescribed tariff, therefore, is proposed. 1st paragraph 2 of the Law on this Croatian Assembly, for reasons of social sensitivity and social solidarity, prescribes the maximum amount of tax, e.g. as a percentage of the average net salary paid in the previous fiscal year. We believe that this would be both fair and ethical, certainly increase legal certainty and generally more politically acceptable. I'll draw attention to a few more details, actually from an art. Paragraph 1 shall not affect the norm of the current law, which mentions the obligation to pay taxes on legal medicinal products, but shall not, in any word or in Article. 24. does not mention the response to the complaint to the audit, but says another. Such indetermination in the legal text is also inadmissible for the consequence that some courts say that a tax is paid to respond to these legal remedies, and other courts do not ask for it. This can be testified from lawyer practice, when at the beginning of the proceedings the party asks for a cost projection, then it cannot be guaranteed that the court will interpret it and the other. If you get into a situation where you respond to a complaint or to an audit. It's not a meaningless cost because it's so-called a regular review relating to the high value of the case of the dispute, and then difficult to dissipate, that the lawyer cannot say with certainty whether the party will have to pay those 5000 kn, for example, or not. It is often up to the decision whether it will respond at all to an opposing audit, and then endangers the right to access to court. The Independent Club for Croatia holds that it would be best to explicitly prescribe that the reply fee is not paid. There was no legal uncertainty at the time, and the level of protection of citizens' rights to access the court would also be increased. Furthermore, nothing changes with regard to the maturity of the obligation, it is proposed. 4. always a commitment by taking action. That's logical, but if that's the case, then why don't we start by the next day, but start running over the year in which the commitment was made? For example, the action is brought on 2.1.2018, but the statute of limitations begins on 1.1.2019. If it's a foreign deadline of five years, so-called. and a general limitation period, for which such favoration to the Treasury and that favor that holds the general standard, according to which the interest begins to flow on the first day of the day of the debtor's delay. There is another situation now and in the new proposed Article 14(1), in the litigation procedure, the tax is determined according to the value of the dispute, however, the court may, in certain situations, ex officio or the objection of the party intervene to that value when it is deemed to be too high or too low. For example, the prosecutor's honor suit requires 100,000 kn because he believes his honor is worth at least that much. In that case, it shall pay the fee according to these 100 000 kn and the court shall, exceptionally, be subject to the principle of proportionality which, in the litigation procedure, intervenes dominantly in such a marked value and determines that the value of the dispute in question is 30 000 kn and that all participants must comply. At that time, however, the amount of the advance fee shall not be refunded. It all comes down to the fact that, in the future, it is paid according to reduced value, Article 26, this court to that extent, in the law-founded value, which then retains the difference between fees. The point is not to make the court's life worse than to ensure justice and to reduce the rarely voluntary and arbitral incursion of party disposition, so thank you so much and wait for another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97690	We're going to the third debate, the club of representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97691	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I think the law is clear to everyone and to those who aren't even lawyers, so it's clear that we're talking about some digitisation all the time. Of course, when we start to apply it, I would not agree that digitisation will start and increase the number of criminal charges because there will be a more accessible lawsuit or cheaper one, I think that it is pure something that has been done long ago, and exactly this stimulation of 50% of the tax exemption for all those claims or answers that have been filed by digital or electronic means, of course as those received if they are paid within 3 days, it is something that the HNS Club certainly welcomes. Of course, there are also a few things that are certainly dealt with by this law, of course this article 26, as regards the determination of both the new established value and the dispute in question in relation to the claims, the treatment of fees, etc., etc. What I have certainly mentioned in the replica, of course, is this and the old way of payment, so also in accounting, and notes up to 100 kn absolutely, so I think that what is really important is that both in Article 10 and Article 11 which speaks of who has the right to be exempt from fees and, above all, that any approach to the court would allow everyone, regardless of their property status or the adverse consequences for supporting themselves and their family, to free you. However, what I want to point out here and really make a constructive proposal and on the trail of what once was because when we come to implement it, it is not disputed that those who have a social status should be exempt from fees and should have equal access to the court, that someone who has 3, 4, 5 000 kn pay for their three-member, four-member family or no money, surely to them and 500 kn represents a significant amount that threatens the existence of their... Only one charge in a court case can be much more without a view which court case was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is currently in a position or situation to do so, this status proves in a separate administrative procedure before the authorities of the state administration. What does that mean? A special requirement, a fee, is often digesting, collecting certain additional documentation. A course that is some instructional 15-day course that if it breaks through, nothing, therefore, instructive state administration has 15 days but if it is 30, nothing of course, which makes certain uncertainty. Of course, to people who are neither lawyers nor lawyers, they must be directed to their rights, they may have to hire someone, someone has to guide them, they must work, so they must spend time, etc., etc. I believe that the solution that was made by the 2003 law is much better, that now that we are talking about digitisation that can simply obtain confirmation of the property as well as of the members of their households, a spouse who then proves a real property situation with a statement then written to the court. And I think it's the taste and the true intensity of the legislator when we look at what we wanted and when we want to free someone from paying taxes. Of course it is not settled by this law, only by this law, this law continues with the Law on Free Legal Assistance and that if we apply such a solution... By this law, we would have to approach and amend the aforementioned law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's one thing to say that, you have the right for free but then to prescribe a procedure that is most often complicated and even requires a cost, and at a cost and a certain time, so the time until the request is met, everything so as not to deliver to the court a document saying that, we have the right to access. This is what I think should be transferred to the court, that there is a request, a statement and a confirmation from the tax service responsible in which it is precisely recorded that a man under the OIB has everything from his income, from his assets, movable property, real estate and everything he can by the number of household members in those criteria which have already been established by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, achieves this right, simply, quickly and unequivocally. That's actually the point if we want this whole thing here that you've predicted and what's already well planned, to be implemented. Also, in an extraparate and executive procedure, if once already adopted and possible to exempt the payment of court fees, this should also apply to all the litigation proceedings that occur during or during these proceedings that do not have to be re-applyed twice, I think the old rule also says when we talk about a court not twice about the same, and then neither should it here, even though this applies to judicial judgments and to any prosecutions themselves. So... but these are some things that I believe can be changed directly by intervention in Article 10. because I think the court is the one who can also free the party when we are talking here and about the already 50% reduced amount which, of course, absolutely makes sense because the court fee is one kind of paying the costs of the court's work, if it's talking about digitisation, the costs are being reduced and, of course, it has to be felt by a citizen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's absolutely commendable. Not only now, now that we're talking about here, business in front of the court, but I think it's something that should be applied slowly to all the state bodies where citizens appear as certain parties and exercise their rights. So when we speak anywhere where certain notes appear, any administrative fees, that this really takes place once and for the actual digitisation that, of course, I say again, will result in all the burdens of our citizens and, above all, to breathe and certainly be more accessible and as a state to every citizen, which is what I mean to every local and especially state government. Here's a thank you, and I hope you'll put these suggestions to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97692	We are now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97693	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a proposal for a law on court fees, where we regulate our own way of charging court fees. We welcome the adoption of this bill because we see that since '95. It's been changed six times, so that's a good direction. And just encouraging about the courts and about all the public bodies this encouraging electronic communication between the courts and the participants in court proceedings I think that's definitely the way and direction we should go. And for this reason, all of what our colleagues have also mentioned in their debate, but the State Secretary himself is proposing to reduce the court fees for submissions submitted by electronic means of 50% of the prescribed fee. Those submissions submitted by the party by electronic means shall pay the fee at the time of submission of the submission itself. While, for submissions received by the court by electronic means, the party shall only have the right to a reduction of 50% of the amount of the court fee if the fee is paid within 3 days of receipt of the application. All these are good changes in particular and this separation of the court fees itself, i.e. the tariffs laid down in this law and the regulation further to the very Regulation on the tariff of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will definitely be in the future and ensure that the necessary amendments and additions of tariffs themselves are simpler. As far as any further steps are concerned, I think that from the debate, this is a good direction for this electronic communication and to encourage it between all public bodies in particular in this case between courts and all participants in these proceedings, but it is also a matter of case law. the practice of courts to balance it in the Republic of Croatia in particular in courts of the same level. And what I mentioned in the replica here is that we have some illogicalness where I don't think everything can even be regulated by law, and I think that's where the court instructions should definitely go. This will not be unnecessary interference, but one advisory, advisory approach to the courts themselves, and I think it will go in the right direction because in practice and lawyers on other parties in the process have problems, and that is what I have mentioned in some courts we see, for example. that it is not only necessary to deliver a confirmation of the payment of the fee, because their accounting or referendums or the service they have automatically placed in the file until some others do so again, there are no indications, the parties in the procedure think that the payment of the court fee itself is settled and that they can proceed in a lawsuit or a court or judge specifically before the procedure itself requires and a certificate which must often be sent and recommended by mail, which is definitely, in most cases, unnecessary. This application of the case of the Ministry itself and the e-publishment panel is an indemnity that all courts are not covered by the application itself, so the misdemeanor and administrative courts are not in the system until the administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia have learned from their colleagues that they do not have an e-produced record at all but all the files, all the cases, everything they need by mail, which is normal and long-term and unnecessary and extends certain deadlines but we can also see in the budgets and in the financial reports of the courts how much they take away both the efficiency and the end of the money. The Secretary of State also warned us, i.e. I taxed out who's all free from paying the court fees. We saw it later in a public debate how much it was adopted. This is an excellent incentive and an excellent example of the digitization of our system. I think we should definitely move on in this direction and the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97694	Thank you, too. We continue on behalf of the Representatives' Club, colleague Peja Grbin. Here you are, on behalf of the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. So as far as the law on court fees itself is concerned, it is in one segment of progress and certainly the part relating to the promotion of electronic communication between parties and courts. In one part, however, it is a certain step back because it assumes that parliament, as a legislative body elected by citizens, will give up one part of its rights, and at the same level of the court fee that is regulated through the tariff, will be handed over to the executive part of it, therefore, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The argument that this allows for a faster change of the court fee, i.e. the level of the court fee and the way the court fee will be paid in certain cases, is least questionable to me, because I do not see any historical need, that the court fee, if it has changed the needs in a day or two. In that case, consultation with the interested public should be carried out, etc. However, any debate on the content of the individual and the items in that tariff, tariff number, or whatever we call them, is being discussed publicly in front of Croatian citizens, the possibility is that if nothing else points to some illogicality in the tariff items. As a result, we certainly support the adoption of the law on court fees in this first reading, however, we ask that this fee, pard0on, this remark that is not only the SDP Club, but through the debate, I have noticed that it is a question which exists in others to consider until the second reading and there is no obstacle to the tariff being incorporated into the Court Tax Act and that it is then Parliament as legislator that determines how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay if they start the dispute, if the parties are in a dispute, etc. I think it's the authority that needs to remain in parliament, not be left to the executive body. So much for what my colleagues have been talking about so far, and now I'm going to talk about something that isn't just the subject of this law, even though it's a significant subject of this law, and that's the issue of government marks, of those famous textile marks. I will remind you that at the end of 2016, we adopted a new law on administrative fees, which provides that administrative fees up to the amount of 100 kn, which have so far been paid in state records, will only be paid exclusively to state records, and that in fact all other payment methods, primarily by payment or by electronic means, will be put in place as they are the primary ones. However, in practice it happens next, you come to the shuttle and from there you are neatly returned and said and there are notes, you know that legendary FT1P or you lack one piece of paper in this case you have all the papers, but still on them you need to plant the tags because our application offices, the famous counters are not equipped with systems where our citizens could pay things by electronic means, and of course, if you are ahead of them, with a mobile payment system, which today great no. There are citizens in their mobile phones, make payments, and show them that you have actually paid, where an eyewitness on the spot where any state official who runs the administrative procedure is authorised to determine if the fee is paid, the two will tell you. Why don't you print that for me, and we'll talk about it, and we'll be back on that famous FT1P. Now I ask you, is it really necessary in 2018 to hold a relic from the Austro-Hungarian times called state records? I think with all the payment systems that exist, it's unnecessarily forcing citizens to run around the city looking for those famous tax stamps when they find themselves in a situation like this. Because we all know that the number of places they've been sold in the last few years has fallen significantly. For this reason, I appeal to the Ministry of Justice, although this is something that goes as an observation to the Ministry of Administration, to consider going to the Republic of Croatia for a complete abolition of state records, and if it is not going to go after the abolition of the state mark, then we go after the example of some other countries that have kept the system of state records, but you, for example, come to a place where the state records are being sold, you say the exact amount you need to pay for a particular item, submission or similar, and then by some electronic system of devices, for example, credit card, debit account card or mobile payment system that is now increasingly taking hold, pay and then you get the exact amount you paid for a specific item. I believe that in 2018, indeed, such a retention of state records leading to the situation that some people who have come to ask for a certain document to be issued to them in administrative or judicial proceedings, to run around the city, and to ask for where to buy state records, is not really necessary. And respecting all other remarks, as I said at the outset, the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this law in this first reading, and of course until the second reading we will decide on how to approach the remarks that we have highlighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97696	Thank you fellow Peji Grbino, we no longer have the debate, so we can conclude the debate on the proposal of the Law on Court Taxes, first reading, P.Z. No. 441, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97697	We are now going to vote on the debated points. First is the draft law on court fees, first reading, P.Z. No. 441. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law on court fees and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 105 for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97698	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, second reading, P.Z. No. 348 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendment may also be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 1(2). 197 Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education of Science and Culture. With us, the secretary of state is in the ministry, Mrs. Branka Ramljak, so does the proposing representative want to give an additional explanation? Here you go... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97699	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft Final Proposal for the Law on the conduct of student affairs. It's a law that passed the first reading, passed the parliamentary committees and came here today before you distinguished MPs and MPs. So let me remind you that the entire area of doing student work has been regulated by one single 1996 rule relating to precisely the performance of these jobs. In the meantime, so much is actually the volume and type of work that students perform in temporary and occasional work has increased that there has been a certain legal gap in the area that required regulation through legislation. And in this sense there was also a proposal of a law of this kind that actually regulates the rights and obligations of all students in the performance of student affairs, so students as performers of these jobs, then intermediaries who are student centres or higher universities who have these student centres as students' standard units and finally those who order students to do certain work. This law actually regulates and defines students who have the right to do this job and, as one of the newspapers, is the introduction and possibility that, in accordance with both the needs of this law and the extraordinary students can also carry out student work. It is then regulated to keep records on the performance of student activities both on the part of the mediators and on the part of the performers, to define the conditions for carrying out intervention activities, to define the conditions for performing student activities, where I would only point out that the law proposes to define the conditions for performing student work in such a way that intermediaries can intervene for the student enrolled in the current academic year, which in the previous academic year achieved at least one ECTS point in addition to the exception as for other persons covered by the law, further until the end of the academic year in which those other persons completed the study or until the end of the period of 3 months from the end of the study, i.e. in case of persons in the registration procedure. Definition, then the law regulates and defines the terms and conditions of the conclusion of the contract on the performance of student jobs, also the obligations of the job's contracting authority, and proposes defining including the payment of minimum fees for the performance of student jobs, the right to increase the fee for the work done under the prescribed conditions, the provision of safe conditions for the performance of the job, protection of the dignity of the performer and the right to paid vacation. Furthermore, the way in which the fee for intervention is used is defined where it is said that these mediation fees should be used for the needs of students, the improvement of student standards, so not only for improving accommodation, conditions of accommodation and nutrition but also for other activities that students engage in during their studies, which are their activities in the field of sport, their activities in the field of culture but also very important in the last few years they have been engaged strongly in various projects that are actually improving their closer and wider community with their innovative ideas and all through the fees that they collect this way. This law also provides for greater control, greater supervision, therefore inspection of the implementation of the laws and regulations adopted pursuant to it by the authorities of the state administration responsible for the control of labour regulations, means labour inspections. And I would also like to emphasise what changes are in relation to first reading. So after the proposal that we received here and in the assembly, the definition of a student and the definition of another person has been clarified in such a way that other persons are also considered to have been enrolled in the study process but for a maximum period of 3 months since the completion of the secondary school, given that it has been possible so far through the rules on employment mediation. In addition, the obligations of the intermediary within the meaning of the payment deadlines for the compensation to the contractors and the conduct of the intermediary in the event that the contracting authority does not deliver the certified contract on time are further specified. Respecting therefore the debate in this House concerning students who are changing the study programme, the article was also added that intermediaries cannot mediate for a student who has changed the study programme twice and enters the first year of the same level three times. And before, of course, further debates, I would like to stress that the main objective of this law is to make it available, to make higher education available to all our young people, not to be, for example, because they do not have enough funding is not allowed to study. For this reason, we believe that this bill will improve the entire system of higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97700	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Madam, colleague actually, Maria Jelkovac and Vesna Bedekovic? So no. Then we open the debate, but before the debate, we have three replicas. The first replica is a colleague of Ante Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97701	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. With this bill, we have prepared the conditions for the auto-electronic issue of the contract. We know that certain student centres have already gone a long way in this and have been waiting for this bill and have already prepared drafts of systems for online issue of contracts themselves. We know that it was also from fellow students from the Student Assembly who were also the main object and because of the crowd and because of all the problems and because of the complications, bureaucracy and administration of the issue since the confirmation and after the return of the contracts themselves. Did the ministry take a step in preparing the regulations that would allow for it, precisely and in what way would it look and if it were to be finished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97702	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97703	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So according to this law, two regulations follow us after adoption, one of the regulations is precisely the one relating to the contract form, and it will obviously be the way in which we will allow it to be more simple, therefore in accordance with the development of technique and technology, a more efficient way can be prepared easily and quickly and the contract form. And in that sense, I thank the students because we have to say that they were the main initiators, even the proposals they make for such software solutions come from their side. So we are under way to make that rule and students and the commission that worked on this will be notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97704	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97705	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, just to point out that Scandinavian countries don't have a student contract at all and that a student contract is actually one of the forms of a labor contract. And that when there was talk of this law then it was meant to go that way. And I'm sorry that in law you touched on what's most important in social dialogue and that's a collective contract. Because your law says that a student who works with an employer will have a 50% higher salary, a salary if he works at night, a state holiday, and that employers will need to monitor transportation. It's a matter of collective agreements and at the same time you'll have a student who'll get 50% more paid work if he works at the cash register and the cashier will get maybe 10% or maybe 1% because it's in a collective contract. So tell me, is that just?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97706	Here you go. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97707	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. So it's about temporary and occasional business. This law regulates that, in a dignified way, an employer treats students as well. You know that we also put these fuses in a law that says that eventually if it comes to someone being fired, that students can't work on such jobs for a certain time and also that they can't do student work for something they do in, according to the systematization of other employees. So there are fuses of different kinds. We are aware of this, we are aware that in other countries there are different ways and we are aware that this law will not solve everything in the field of student affairs defined. However, many things are regulated by other laws. So this law had its focus on greater availability of student education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97708	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97709	Here, I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Associates. I would just what you have stated is, in fact, one proselytically, very clearly, understandably, something that I think is the most important thing that is introduced by this law, and that is, above all, a larger minimum rate for a student who is now prescribed, who will actually be higher than the minimum wage if we look at how many of our citizens have. And why does it matter? Well, of course we don't want to, we're introducing order here, and of course we have to think about workers, not just students, so we know exactly who the worker is, who the student is. And not that many times, sometimes it can be unfair competition to disrupt the labour market. And the second thing that really matters in public is that now and the extraordinary students will be able to use this service through student service because I think that's where we corrected the long-standing injustice. Of course, neither do exceptional students who do not earn income from working on other grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97710	Thank you. Okay. And the last replica of counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97711	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This Final Proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, you said, made it possible for all young people to have higher access to higher education. I agree with that. That '96 rule. Some irregularities have been observed in years. And it's good that this law has made it right. What it is, I greatly commend and that is the possibility for students to be able to do these student jobs. So I'm curious maybe even though it's not the subject of this law because you have information, let's say that those students, extraordinary students who do not carry out any activity and who can make these contracts have the right to health insurance or have to use it on some other basis. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97712	Here you go. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97713	Thank you very much for asking and for the opportunity to explain. It is therefore known that exceptional students do not have any rights relating to accommodation subsidies, to school subsidies, to food subsidies, so they are ixies, health, pension, the right to do student work, and that extraordinary students do not have a single option. Transport subsidies, they also have regular ones. This was the only option we gave them in accordance with the law's needs. I'll remind you that there was one large petition of 7 thousand students it signed to allow exceptional students to do student work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97714	Thank you. The first debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club is the debate of the Independent Lists' Most Independents, which will be shared by counterparts Panenic and Zhagar. The first one's a colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97715	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have an important law now in the second reading, a law on the performance of student affairs. Namely, as we could track it from the media it all started there two years ago when students themselves, I think that an extraordinary student launched a petition to finally pass this law in order to first of all, and this is seen from the sense of this law to protect students from the abuse of employers in such a way as to use them to do various jobs, with a very small paid satin, and on the other hand to protect the entire system from abuse, in such a way as to... contracts are passed on to another person, that they actually carry out the work of a person who has no contract or that in other ways the whole system is being misused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, there are, as third factors or third parties to this entire system are intermediaries, i.e. Student centres, which, through which this whole process is then going to take place. And when I observe this law, and we can say, at the very least that it's written correctly, it hasn't been there since '96. After the rule that it was made, it came well and there is not a lot of important regrets because these 3 things, mentioned by the secretary of state, which otherwise the most attention of the media captured, it is primarily the Captain, which is defined here, to share, the minimum gross salary with factor 160 that is somewhere 21.5 kn at this point. Then there is solving the issue of the work of extraordinary students and the third thing is 50% more paid work for Sundays, holidays and night work. So these are some things to say hello to. However, a little bit, if we look at a wider picture, we could say that it might normally be in our society in our administration, in our ministries one problem, which we sometimes look at one-dimensionally, so we're looking at too much I'm not going to say narrowly, but we're too busy with what we're trying to do right now, to see a little wider picture and to raise things to a higher level. Why am I saying that? So here, today, this law is defended by representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education. This law could be defended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour, perhaps more appropriate. I'm personally sorry that the law doesn't say it's a law to do student work. So when we say doing student work, then, it's more of a broader concept to me that covers everything and everything. But de facto here is about the work of students. Students work to pay for schooling, just to make the whole process easier. We see, according to the data, that a large part of the students have problems financing their education, especially students whose parents are of poor property status. Of course there are then excellent students, and in that sense, I welcome this law intensity to enable them to work, because they are, in some way, exposed to it and in fact, the purpose of extraordinary study would be to do so through work. Of course, a large amount, according to the data, only a small part of them have a really working contract, a large part of them are missing, and everyone has to pay for schooling. And when I say that I'm not going to say it a little wrong, a little bit odd that the Ministry of Science and Education is passing this law, which is the correct law from that point of view, which should be passed by the Ministry of Labour, that is, above all, because students fall into one special let's say, the population of the country, these are young people who are educated, who need to, to bear, to express myself, the greatest burden for the development of the country, and that's what I'm going to paint. Yesterday, just yesterday, Paul Allen, the man who persuaded Bill Gates to leave the studio, died. Poll Allen left the study shortly before and two of them founded one of the largest, largest companies today, say Bill Gates is the richest man on earth. And you know what they were doing before they left the studio? They worked as students for certain companies. So, as students they've already worked, but they haven't hacked into the cabbage companies, they haven't carried the cargo from point A to point B, Bill Gates and Poll Allen are for a single company at the time, doing the salary bill. As students, they were hired by the company to account for their salaries. We today have a huge number of students, extremely smart, smart talented young people, and what should be done, if the Ministry of Science and Education is proposing such a law, should be an intensity, to encourage employers to recognize the talents of young people and to hire them first of all, in those jobs where they immediately acquire practice and which can benefit them and those companies then also to the students themselves. I may look at things too ambitiously, but it should certainly be to think in the future, because that's how society gets started and things start from a dead end. You take from students only that acidic cabbage or that they do some simple jobs, is from the point of view of social security of their existence well, but from the point of view of the development of society, it will not encourage great success. To go back to the law itself now, except for the lack of ambition to be, so let's tell the students more acceptable, the law is rightly done, a lot of these measures here need to be welcomed which are listed, however, in the last part that talks about punishing infringements, for employers these are quite high penalties, but what particularly stings in the eyes is punishment for students, who abuse this possibility. So if someone works on their contract, the penalty can be up to 50,000 kn. I don't understand it from this provision until the end, is that exclusively referring to the only part they've earned, which is the job done. Because that job was de facto done, they didn't do it, someone else did it, so that money has to be returned or whether the job is done, if the contract says that the job is worth 50,000 kn that they will do the whole amount. It's not clear to me, but 50,000 kn is huge money for a student and I find such punishment rigorous, always in terms of deterrence it's good but it's much better to always use prevention, talking to students, so there's the ministry to include that through these information systems, which will now be used by intermediaries, i.e. A student center, to be more precise and to appear immediately at the beginning. In particular, there is a system of higher education information system, the information system of student rights, where a lot of things are visible and may immediately be contained at the beginning of such a phenomenon, to take responsibility both employers and students and intermediaries themselves. So, the law is correct, along with these remarks could be accepted, fellow Panenic, continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97716	Thank you, continue fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97717	Thank you very much. I would in this section have returned primarily to the part that relates to independent work, these solutions that are offered, they are related to unsuspecting work, and work for employers. I, as Minister of Economy in the mandate of Oreshkovic's government, primarily when the students joined, sought the opportunity to facilitate their entrepreneurship activities. And full of the mouth of all political factors are incentivising, young people entering entrepreneurship, promoting work in innovative technologies. However, when we return not only to learn about the stories of one Microsoft and what happened, we can say that is a distant past, looking at the informational development now. We still haven't created the conditions, or the conditions in which students entrepreneurs operate, are actually bypassing the legal solutions that have just been voted here in this House. Are we really behind the fact that an entrepreneur, a student entrepreneur, needs to look for his happiness in opening up a business in another country that has solved it or we need to consider making it easier to start entrepreneurs. Whether or not this country and its health pension system will fall if the student stays in a regular study, if we cover his expenses, health insurance, and give him a chance, during this study, during a regular study, to start his entrepreneurial idea, to try out, that same student, will invest his parents, his relatives, his friends, will try to make a series of attempts, to succeed, that once he finishes his studies, that he already has a job, he hired himself. In this way, we actually create an insurmountable obstacle or create a burden on them that such an entrepreneur must physically appoint a director, that he must seek himself in the role of a procurist, and he is constantly in danger of being presented and in danger of being denied the right to a regular study. If our students were to speak to entrepreneurs, surely we would not be satisfied with the number of them, and we should look for the causes and decisions that we make. So I would take the opportunity here to not only be student work, but also student entrepreneurship, if necessary, right, final solution to open that possibility, that young people, as they are at the gallery, really can say we have the opportunity to run entrepreneurship, otherwise we will have our companies not only while students, registered in London or some other destination that allows it, but also after finishing, will not be given any more, nor will they have the strength to deal with the red tape of the Croatian system, but will continue to operate there and we have actually achieved a counter effect. Not that we didn't bring them back, but we simply drove them away with our own solutions. I think that we should consider, especially by looking at new technologies, where young people have a lot more knowledge in which they find entrepreneurial opportunities, where we can achieve successful results and be proud when such entrepreneurs appear, we award them prizes, and in fact very few of them ask what it was like to come to the moment when we are creating obstacles to being too happy to have someone who has achieved top-notch results in some IT solutions, and on the other hand, we have to ask ourselves, whether through this reform, which is now going through the entire single school system, we can ensure that we can reform and entrepreneurship of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97718	Thank you, too, fellow Panenic. We continue to work on behalf of the MPs. The next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, please welcome counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97719	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is before us in the second reading of the Law on the conduct of student affairs. When a law like this comes in, it needs to be seen with a few aspects. The first aspect is that we have had, so far, an area that has not been properly regulated and that has tried one simple law to look at that area and when looking at the technical elements of that law, then we can say that instead of the rules that they had before, we now have one technical law that tries to regulate it. Then you have another aspect. What we have in Croatia today. We today in Croatia have at this time, somewhere between 35-40 thousand jobs that are more unfulfilled, employers who talk about the big problem of filling these jobs and asking for quotas to be opened for filling with foreign labour that we do not get. What do we have, what options do we have? So we have people who have retired for different reasons and who are ready to retire and still work extra. And, of course, for them, the legislator should allow it to work further. Then we have students who are equally willing to study and still work and fill in and that's what we have at this point and what we have. And now we need to see how to bring it all together. When it comes to pensioners, it's another law, but when it comes to students, it's this law. Likewise, when it comes to students, we need to see whether we students who work experience in a way that they are labour forces, like a colleague who used to say wear heavy furniture or do some jobs that carry coal - it's not anymore, it was in my age. So in my day there was something else going on. It's not now. Or they could be jobs that enable them to actually market their work and which are some kind of work experience they're going to have. The same way that we partially experience student work in a way that fills and needs to be experienced to enable students who are worse material status to enable them to study and when the debate was in the first reading I emphasized all the difficult elements that are in some other laws and which in the first reading when they came from the aspect of the Ministry of Finance were seen as being moved there. So we can experience student work as someone who does it temporarily and occasionally, who performs certain seasonal activities. So in my day it was common for you to go to England for the summer to read strawberries, thus earn something and learn English. Today, when the European Union is different, it does so differently. So it's also part of your student work and good for the reason that very early young people are starting to appreciate the money they've earned themselves. I can always say that on my family's example. My son who also works through a student so he's a student and works when he gets a allowance then that allowance is fine. However, when he earns some money, it is clear that every kuna that has been spent. So in this context, it is also good to look at this Law on the conduct of student affairs. So in technical elements, we can say that the law is not a major innovation. He's correct. What we had was complicated, defined the relationship between the performer, the mediator and the client. They will partially solve the problem we have and with the necessary workforce. But he's coming now, but... This law should go one step further. Whether this was the power and power of the ministry and the governing structure to do so now will be evaluated by someone else. But this law was supposed to go one step further. In the debates that were held before the summer break, and behind the summer break there was a big problem that we are all staring at, which is that we have studies, we have students who finish jobs that are unemployed in Croatia and de facto when we draw some denominator that we can conclude that in one part we are schooling young people who are schooling from our budget and who will work their employment needs elsewhere. Our mouths are full of shipbuilding lately. If the shipbuilding will not be in Croatia, then my people must clearly say that we will not even have a shipbuilding study. The issue is also with secondary schools, because otherwise we will finance from the budget of the Republic of Croatia children or young people who will, of course, come to the Netherlands or any country and work. But that's another topic. What this law was supposed to go one step further, and I'm kind of always trying and we in Voice are trying to look affirmative, we're always trying to see that there's still some improvement, a step further that should've gone on was supposed to define the work so doing student work. Even the title could have been different. But what they're doing is getting into their work experience. You, when you leave today as a student, I am talking about a study of architecture, today a student who studies architecture over the summer goes to another European Union country to acquire some knowledge there for two or three months, for it is paid and it is a work experience that can define as a work experience when he goes to take a professional exam. You have a limit for a professional exam and then when you go to take an expert exam that in three months every summer or two months you work every summer, let's say one summer in Estonia, and the second summer in Poland is a work experience that has been written and when you go to take a professional exam then this work experience counts as if it is therefore a condition for him not to have more than a year and a half but less work experience. So it would be extremely useful and important that in someone because this step as we well know it is over. The law is in the second reading. The promoter has a clear view of what this is about. A sufficient number of hands in the assembly to vote on it. But what would be extremely important, which is that you really don't just get a middleman's body that is and that only defines the entrance and exit, you've worked so many hours, you earn so much, you get so much, you define what jobs they are. So that these jobs he had that were compatible with some further situations get into work experience and other countries have. We live in a different world today. I often use this payphone as an option to say it in my day because it was really something different back then. Today you have every piece of information in real time. Today is not one case for you to happen to someone to finish, I'm talking about colleges, I'm talking about finishing an electrotechnic study and still in his life he doesn't even do electrical engineering in that classical sense at all, but he's a manager, he's in economics, he's in economics, and then he even teaches in some colleges, and that's what we have a case, and then I say he's done economics, he says no, he's done in electrical engineering. So, but during the study, he could gain work experience related to this and it is absolutely no problem especially when we rely today on e-Citizens to define it. What is realistic and this fear must be absolutely shown from this pay phone is that some employers will use students in a way that is not imagined, that individual workers will be fired, that they will occasionally, or temporarily hire students and thus bridge certain things. But let's finally go to these laws that are passed and applied. Let's finally take care of them, let's finally see how the law lives and let it live for six months and a year and when we see that something wrong with that law goes with the amendment and the addition of the law. No one should act according to their law as if it were God-given, so once we brought it in, and there's no mother to move one word or one sentence because here's the best possible law. The laws as we live, as cities live, as things change and the laws have their own lives, and in this life they need to be monitored and seen what they are about. You should always know what the ultimate goal of this law is. The aim of this law is to regulate the performance of student affairs in an appropriate manner. In technical terms, what we have now defined in the law and we haven't made a step further what it should be. You should always go with some step further. I don't see why working experience was such a big problem to define. Regarding the role of mediators between the first and second readings, some things were done. I must admit that we at the GLASA club very carefully watched this law and the fear that some other colleagues had, that students would replace the workers, that employers would abuse it, we're not sure to the end, that would be in case we didn't have that great need for labour. Let's see the country we live in. The next year will be 100 grand for sure, believe me, I've said it several times, 100 thousand needed, new jobs because we simply won't have enough workforce. We have to, we won't be able to bridge with foreign labour because we're not friends of our own and let alone be of someone else. We'll have to bridge that with what we have. Especially with regard to tourism. As far as tourism is concerned, it's one thing, with us tourism is still 7 and 8 months, so it's one job, only the one that's afraid, that students and that this workforce isn't used in a way that shouldn't be defined by some other regulations and other things. We at the GLASs Club to take another step further, we'd vote for this law, we won't vote like this, and we won't, we'll be able to refrain from this law, we'll let us see how it's real and then we expect the competent ministry to step up and see what else can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97720	Thank you very much. We're continuing on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleagues Bačić and colleagues Sokol, not Branko, Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97721	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected secretary of state with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Greetings and colleagues from the Student Assembly who have joined us here because this law is very important for our students because I think it will cover when we see at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia over 40,000 extraordinary students who will enter the system of development of the student standard, who will enter the system of benefits of anyone who gets from studying and not the very degrees in the final. We know that student affairs have been regulated by another 1996 rules, which I think is illogical and not adequate, and that commendation to another student choir and to all the members who have diligently warned the ministry all these years about the need for a bill on the conduct of student affairs that is here in front of us in the second reading. I think we're all going to adopt it, that there won't be any problems, that it will come into effect quickly and that the benefits of this law will already be seen in this academic year. We know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a task force to draft this law and that the main and first newspapers of this proposal are equalising the right to carry out student work from regular students to extraordinary ones. We also know in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education which status is regular, i.e. which is the definition of regular and extraordinary students. So regular students are those who study according to the program and are based on a full classroom while extracurricular students attend a particular educational programme or other, along with work, or other activities required by this programme. We also know in the Republic of Croatia that there has been an expansion of certain study programmes that have not even been able to enroll extraordinary students, they have not had the ability to enroll regular students so that a large number of extraordinary students have been forced to enter such study programs but have not had any rights guaranteed to other students. As regards the very records of the conduct and the student affairs in this law, it is well and specifically regulated about the delivery of data and intermediaries, but also in the Inspectorate of the work that we did not have before and there was no before and no clear supervision of the conduct of student affairs itself. So we definitely think this proposal is going to be a very good solution. But so far, no procedures have been defined for giving a solution to the approval of intervention activities in student affairs. I think it's a good thing the ministry is going to start a seven-member commission. That it is good that members of the Croatian Student Assembly will have 2 representatives where this process itself will be maximumly uniform and transparent. As for defining the conditions for performing student jobs and those of the famous 1 ECTS point, it is good that between these two readings i.e. In the final draft of the law, the Ministry also introduced another item in Article 10, which, with the regulation of this 1 ECTS point, gave opportunity to extraordinary students who had entered a specific study programme or generally to students who had entered a specific study programme and after a few weeks, realized that it was not for them and changed and entered another study programme in the second reading will be able to use the right to carry out student work. It is also one of the remarks, one of the main remarks of the Croatian Student Assembly which is at the benefit of all students and implemented and introduced into the law itself. As regards the definition of the terms and methods of conclusion of the student contracts themselves, we heard and through the replicas of the State Secretary, this law introduced the possibility of an electronic form of issuing student contracts. Soon, I hope soon by the ministry, there will be a rule that will define exactly what this contract may look like. We know that individual student centres are already ready to issue and digitize their systems. We already have plans for a system proposal that should appear through certain applications. I think it will also reduce the ranks in the student centres that this will make it easier for both our entrepreneurs and our companies, and also for the student centre itself unnecessary crowds and unnecessary administrations that will greatly help and cause major problems for students today. It is also important to stress that this minimum hour is divided by 160 with a minimum salary in the Republic of Croatia so that it is regulated that there would be no cheating on the performance of the students themselves and it is important to stress that a provision has been introduced for employers who give a particular worker a business conditioned notice that the next 6 months cannot employ a student i.e. I can't make a student work contract because the most criticism is in both the first reading and the stakeholders, but also from the opposition whether the student will replace the worker. We don't think so. That's what we proved. That's what we showed. We'll take it out here one more time. Statistics from student centres show clearly that students mostly work for only one month a year, maximum 4 months a year over 70%, so it is absolutely no change or problem regarding employers i.e. The problem is that a student, as some kind of cheap labour force, will replace our fellow workers. Finally, it is also good to highlight these 0.5% related to mediation where now directly now student centres with the help of course projects and with the help of student choirs will use and spend more money on sports, cultural and other activities that cry out at our universities so that here, in their own name, will continue fellow Sokol, we welcome this adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97722	We're moving on with our colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97723	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad I got a chance to say something on behalf of the Club on this subject because I ran a task force within the Ministry of Science and Education, so I kind of took part in making most of these solutions mentioned here. So, I would only point out that all relevant stakeholders were involved in the task force, meaning the Ministry of Science, Education, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Finance, student centres, union representatives and employers. So all relevant stakeholders that are connected to this system. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I would also, of course, point out the role of former Secretary of State Matko Glumcic, who, when I left the Ministry, completed the work of that task force. I would take this opportunity just to refer to a few things if I could get a vote, my colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97724	My colleagues and colleagues, please, now I've been ringing a little bit, now I won't be ringing again. Please don't. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97725	Thank you very much. Mostly a few things that are said here I'd just refer to them. A colleague of the Dark Tarrits who unfortunately did not say that there are no steps here. Here I'm just going to count all the news in relation to the legislation so far. It means the possibility of extracurricular students working. That's never happened before. Prescribing minimum fee currently 21.7 kuna per hour. Increase this minimum fee by 50% for weekend work, holidays, etc. High sanctions are further prescribed. So, sanctions for employers of 100 thousand kuna if they are legal persons, 50 thousand kunas for natural persons and what is particularly important for responsible persons in legal persons of 10 thousand kunas in this way is definitely a destimulating violation of the provisions of law and abuse. It is also prescribed the jurisdiction of the labour inspection that has not been carried out so far. Since we know that the laws often contain good solutions but that the application of the fees, we have made it possible to start real control of fictitious contracts, protection at work, payment of fees to students, etc. So, of course, electronic patterns that are repeatedly mentioned and that also speed up the whole procedure and make it easier to actually control the entire system. So that's all the news that's been gone so far, and I don't think it's fair to say there's any news and there's no stepping out. So that's about my colleague, Dark Taritash. About what she said about work experience. So that's where we need to distinguish a few things. It means working experience if you go to the employer, you have nothing to prescribe to him which work experience you will admit and which you will not. It'll be a private employer I determine. In the case of the State sector, or the public sector, there is a set of specific regulations governing what is considered to be a working experience for each particular area, and it is simply not appropriate to regulate this law. So for that, we talked to other ministries and when we were in the task force and we gave informal recommendations that this should certainly be recognised, if it is work in the profession. Of course, if someone was wearing one, if someone was waitressing or something, then that kind of work experience for some job in the profession just doesn't make sense. But I'm saying, it's just not about regulation of this law, it's about some other regulations. As far as compliance with the labour market is concerned, this is a question of the overall regulation of the higher education system but it is not, however, an area of this law but a law on quality assurance that regulates the conditions for the adoption of a certificate for student programmes where inter alia, compliance with the labour market and, of course, the roof law, the Act on scientific activity and higher education that is in the process of making, and then we believe that part will be better brought into line with what is being done here. Further on, as far as colleagues of Žagar, or colleagues from MOST, means a few of their remarks, means student work and student work, student work. So, first of all, the Ministry of Labour and the Peace System that was in the task force, it was explicitly against the fact that this was called student work. It's precisely because of the distinction between these jobs that are occasional and temporary in relation to jobs, in relation to a working relationship that is simply something else. And in that sense, the very notion of a contractor and a job-orderer points to occasional jobs that are closer to a work contract than to a work contract. And that's why we introduced this termology, and in order to prevent students from replacing workers, meaning on the jobs they're working on, people need to be hired in a working relationship with that provision that they can't take a student to do these jobs after a business conditioned 6 months. It is precisely because employers would not use students as unfair competition, lower labour costs and employ jobs that require a working relationship. And that's exactly the distance that needs to be emphasized. So that's exactly why this isn't a working relationship. As for the students as far as they were involved, so we definitely coordinated with them and they are absolutely as far as I know and as far as we are concerned today, we also had a press conference on the subject, the student assembly as legitimate students absolutely support this law. As far as the entrepreneurial activity mentioned by counterpart Panenic is concerned, it is also simply not the subject of regulation of this law. So here it is very clearly defined which sector should be regulated, in which way it should be used and the way it is set up and that is regulated by some other laws of the Company Act and beyond. So it simply does not need to mix those two things because in this case there will be legal confusion and legal uncertainty which is definitely not good and is not the aim of this law. The law also requires conditions for intermediaries, which I think is also very important. So objective conditions are prescribed and it is prescribed that the founder of the intermediary, or the activity of the mediator, can be performed either by student centres established by the Higher School or it can be one unit within, say, integrated universities. And in this way we also protect this activity as an activity of some public interest and prevent anyone, that anyone can open an intermediary and that this intermediary will not at all invest money in a student standard, but we are just prescribing what conditions objectively these intermediaries must contain and how much they must invest in student work. For example, if you want to open an intermediary under this law, you must have at least 10% of the accommodation units in relation to the number of students studying in your city outside your place of study. For example, in Zagreb it is about 30,000 students who are studying in Zagreb and do not have a residence in Zagreb. So 10% relative to that number, that's about 3,000 beds. So 3,000 beds would have to have someone, perform a mediator who wants to do that activity in Zagreb. And in this way we also protect the student standard and ensure that funding from student work, i.e. from student jobs, is invested in the student standard. And finally, just one thing, we have noticed on the Legislative Committee a little bit, so in the case of infringement provisions, the sanctions for the employer, or the contracting authorities of jobs that do not comply with the obligations to ensure safe working conditions, so here, that amendment should then go, and then it will also be introduced into the law. Also another novelty is that students are also being subject to labour protection regulations which will also be monitored by the labour inspection. Here, in short so much from me, this law certainly represents an improvement compared to today's situation. There's a lot of news about how much there is, and that's news and steps that could have gone in. And that's why the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97726	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next debate of fellow Members of Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97727	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honorable secretary of state, with her co-worker, colleague and colleague. So it's right in front of us, I think we've now heard a taste from previous speakers and from the proposings that the new one is being introduced here. And I think that, above all, it is absolutely necessary to say that even in the working group, as fellow Sokol said were involved representatives of different ministries of finance, work, students, student centres. And this is one of those I'm not going to say reform because I think it goes to everyone's ears but one of those laws that I've been talking about here for weeks and months that brings something better to the citizens, specifically students, but also to the employers or employers, in, everyone in their scope. And I think absolutely by this law, I only think what you see in the preamble, or in the very explanation that we are doing today under the '96 law. For years, I think it all says, that nothing else has changed, but only the labour market and the conditions that have already changed I don't know how many times down there, the ways, the offers, the demand, the systems I think what should have been done a long time ago and it's good to have started. And at the Ministry of Education they recognized this as the number of other things that you started but never saw the light of day and now that's exactly what you put on the agenda here and in the final proposal and this Parliament. Whatever anyone thinks of HNS, there's nothing I can deny. No one can tell me that today we're arguing here that it's a step backwards. He's doing his job. I admit it's something that's already been done before, including the curricular reform itself, so we haven't invented it. We just put it in the classrooms in our experimental phase by all those same curriculas that were done years and years ago. No one invented hot water there. But there's just been a political moment for it to be a priority. Well, let's blame ourselves for that, if we have to. But that doesn't mean that what people do that are professional, it's independent all bad here because that mean HNS has conditioned something, and now nothing's wrong. So we're going to find in this problem, I'm going to make every suggestion that I'm good at, for some I'm not clear and I don't see anything, but let's see the orderly item by item that's so terrible here and that it won't improve the status of our students here, and when I talk about introducing a little order on the labour market. Because this introduces both transparency and defines student rights, regulates the obligations of keeping records, we have heard control mechanisms, misdetermination provisions, defining the mode of working conditions of students, so that's something that should have been done a long time ago. When we talk about inspection supervision, it is precisely prescribed that the competent authorities of the state administration are also the authorities of the labour regulations and in accordance with specific regulations. When we talk about the obligations of the job manager, Mrsic said that we are introducing something here that is above collective agreements, and then it means that we are working in a employee's favorite because apparently the worker is becoming competitive on the market. We are talking about workers if we prescribed here for work on weekends, work nights that is 50%, and somewhere collectively it is determined at 30 or 40 then the employer will be more cost-effective to hire a full-time worker, which is both the meaning and the goal should be, not to eliminate and work on the labour market as much as they did with the student contract. It's this regulation that when someone is given what we have when we fire someone, we can't take anyone into that workplace for six months, right now. So, there's a line going in. When we talk about minimum wage or captainship, it also introduces order that there is no unfair competition and exploitation of students. Even they now have opportunities and have more with this bill of law Captains than workers on the minimum because of reduced contributions and the cost of such work. So I think absolutely when we speak by employers, order is introduced. When we talk about defining the rights of students in terms of this law as to who all has the right to access work through a student's application for many years has been unaware of how many thousands, tens and tens of thousands of extraordinary students who have studied as a student and have not worked, they are now being introduced to this labour market but under these conditions that they have. So if they're not carrying out any other activity, they're not the owners of the crafts, or they're working somewhere else they have access to work through a student service. There's been a lot of talk here about activity itself. In a way, it liberalises the market that can work on mediation but under clearly strict and certain conditions that go again in favour of the students themselves that there is no eviction, avoidance and search for holes and quick profits for various fast-opened companies that work on mediation. I also think that when we talk about the introduction of a record of doing student jobs, then, that it's quite strictly prescribed here and that with this we're going to introduce actually order somewhere where we haven't been since 96, and we need to ask ourselves why it isn't. Apparently, that mess answered someone that they could do with students whatever they wanted, stick to them for 12, 15 hours, send them home, come, give them wages, etc. Or captains that are far below the real value and use theirs so I'll even say harder financially... because we know a lot of students, a lot that have completed their studies with work because they didn't have another choice because they had to pay their own and the costs of studying and the fees themselves, etc. They worked and studied on who's terms, who's where. And this is where the order is introduced. And no one can say that's not good. If there's anything that can always be better, that's all. I don't see anyone who's gonna say anything here we're not gonna do for good and it's fun. But let's just say that the main argument is something that comes from the Ministry of Education, where there's an HNS something on the political wallpaper, and then we have to challenge it right away because it's not good because it's our agenda. Otherwise, you'd actually de facto me if you supported saying this indirectly so yeah, maybe they were right people when they saw what they were doing if they did what they did. But it can't happen to anyone, I get that. And it'll be better to have hair in the egg and toss out what's written than to say out loud and clear that this is good, we'll support this, maybe we can do better and absolutely accept it. But no. And that doesn't diminish the fact that what's done is good. Time will tell. And that's why this is one of these laws when we're here in this House and we're talking about the Law on Professional Education and String and HKO, and the series, a set of laws that in the last year went beyond all expectations and beyond what's been going on for the past 20 years. And it still has to be done. Some say too slow, too small, some say it's falling, it's going fast, it can't be, you know how it is. Everyone has a grudge. If something's too fast then it's not good, if something's slow has its own procedures then it's late, it's not working, it's waiting. There's always an observation but what's important is what's left behind and I think that numbers and data speak for themselves. At the very end of the line and here is the European Commission, which I have no doubt today that someone put there a note that it is not good in the education sector that today would not be... Quoting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have not heard a single quote today that someone has said that the European Commission has commended and said that, we admit it, maybe it can be better and it should be done anyway. I'll take that. The argument that goes counter to it alone, for the sake of its justice and political stance, and some thesis, I think we've heard a lot about it in this House and that it didn't lead us anywhere or bring us here where we are today. Therefore, of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal and another series of proposals that are coming, I think we all need to get into both fifth and sixth and whatever speed you want because citizens don't have time, citizens and leave, precisely because of these and the slow and unproductive debates. Because when, of course, everyone's eager to change, everyone wants to change, but when it does, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. But we all will, as a matter of principle. Well, then that's what we're looking at here when the citizens are looking at us and something's good. I also commend colleagues who say here and colleague Grbin today said that for a proposal on an earlier point of court fees that... in the first reading support because it's de facto you can't really say anything about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it's supposed to be. Nor should we in power always be and priorities against any proposal of opposition. I'm always glad to see that some proposal and amendment by the government has been accepted by the opposition. I am truly pleased because it means that we are working together on something that is good for our citizens, that is what our citizens are paying us for, so let it be a criticism to us as ruling, absolutely yes, I am aware of that. Maybe I can't change everything, but I'm sure we can all go together. But that's why when I hear criticism for criticism, for political positioning, then I'm a little sad because this didn't work out and every constructive proposal is welcome, though. But here, I've now taken this opportunity to expand a little debate because here I'm talking about the generally comprehensive package of measures and reforms that have worked at the Ministry of Education, a series of laws, I don't think there's ever been so much of the law practically not at every session but every other week or every third week something comes and that's the way we all need to look up and then maybe, maybe, we get there and do something for these citizens until it's too late. And that's our basic job. No matter where we come from. So, in conclusion, I absolutely think that this is something that both students and citizens and the public will support because there is no reason, I don't see that anyone can specifically say that this is a step backwards and that something is done to harm someone here. And as a rule, when we have talked about tax reform, we also need to look at as much as possible, as best as possible at doing business and living and destroying the lives of our citizens themselves, and it must be a task within a framework that is sustainable and that is responsible for dealing with both policy and system management. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97728	Thank you, colleagues. No, no, sorry, no, no, no, no, I'm begging you, don't do that because this doesn't make any sense definitely. No, today is a day like that, slow, no, no, slow, everybody has a chance, there's a replica, a story on behalf of the club, individually. ... Okay, thanks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next on behalf of SDP representative Sabina Vosovac's Club of Representatives. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education. Let us now release these pre-election EPP pamphlets of HNS which are persistently using, so I will dare say and abuse this pay phone so that you do not work free PR to your minister who will remain remembered as the person who introduced the biggest chaos into the Croatian education system and who will be her successors no matter who has come to the ministry to correct for years. It's about the introduction, let's get to the facts now. Never would this law have seen the light of day and we wouldn't have discussed it here if Minister Maric had not hit the students in the first step of tax reform and played with their rights until then. What the students went wild to, what injustice they reacted to. And then the ministry went to calm them down and said it would solve their problem through a full regulation of student work areas. And we no longer have, as of today, or Friday, when we believe that we will vote this law, no student affairs, student work is done through a rule that is already old, we have heard for tens of years but we will have a new law that will regulate that area. And I say hello and that's good. But that, let's talk about facts now, not some propaganda message where there's been nothing before since she came, everything started to reform and change because it's just not true. Now the second pair of posts that you have done to the students are not really solved by this law, but must be solved by Minister Maric and solved. And it's good, I'll repeat, in this law which, after many years, actually determines the minimum fee for student work. That's what I say and that's great. And it was necessary and it was necessary. It is unacceptable for students to be paid and very often it has not been paid, and it will cease by passing this law. Students must not be free, nor cheap labour. Free of charge won't be without sanctions anymore. And if it's gonna be cheap, that's what we'll see. We believe that further improvements are needed in the law and we will propose certain amendments in order to bring down the minimum intensity or perhaps the poor intentions of some employers who will try to use or abuse this law to take students and pay a lot less than the actual price of work they are for the same worker who does the same jobs. That's the first one. Secondly, it is also positive that in some ways it will allow exceptional students to work through student contracts. On the side now that we have a much bigger problem, which is that we have completely disrupted the definition of what a remarkable student is. We in the Republic of Croatia have about 160 thousand students, somewhere around 100 thousand students are regular students, and of these extraordinary students we actually have about 30 of them seem to me to be thousands who work and 17 thousand at which they are not in a working relationship and we actually bring this law among other things and because of them we would allow this small part of the extraordinary students to have the opportunity to earn and work. But I'm saying, I think that in that Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, we need to review the definition of extraordinary students. Because, unfortunately, in Croatia, exceptional students are not what they should be in most cases. These are people who, with their work that is initial, want to gain a high qualification. Our students, unfortunately, are remarkable for various reasons or are unable to enroll a regular study and then decide and want to gain a high qualification are not employed anywhere to enroll extraordinary studies. Some lose the right because they did not give exams to lose the right of regular students, become extraordinary students, etc. There are many reasons why our students are in a position to be outstanding students, and then there are really many of them who don't really do what should be the intensity of extraordinary students, but are buying time, allowing themselves to be more competitive on the labour market, while not having any rights as regular students. So they don't do what they're supposed to do because they're extraordinary students. They don't have the right to a dorm. They have no right to a student diet, ixica, etc. They're really in that one ugly space. And it's a good thing we're going to let them work through student contracts and these 17 grand that aren't in labor compared to these 30,000 extraordinary students. But now how do you correct the injustice? How do you protect these 30,000 extraordinary students who are currently working on a work contract so that tomorrow someone doesn't translate them into student contracts? How to reduce or disappear the boundaries between students who are currently outstanding in working relationships and those who will get the opportunity to work through a student contract that have no different rights? Because an extraordinary student who will work through a student contract will, for example, have the right to be paid 50% more for work on Sundays for example, and this student who is working in a working relationship and is also an extraordinary student will not be paid 50%, but on the basis of a collective contract. We create a difference and injustice in the same category of students between them will be some extraordinary students of one species and another. Not to mention the differences between both these regular and extraordinary. I don't know, I'm not sure we've been able to settle these laws. We'll give some amendments that should perhaps correct that injustice. He says students will be paid 50% more outstanding for overtime. And what does overtime mean when they are not defined as according to the Labour Act, which is the maximum captainship? What does overtime mean? You know that in a worker. That remarkable student who works on a work contract knows what overtime is all that is above 40 hours a week is overtime. And what is overtime with an extraordinary student of his colleague who will work on a work contract when we haven't said anything about it anywhere, you can't use it just because he's a student to work more than 40 hours a week, you can't, we don't let you do it and he's a worker no matter what a student he is. You didn't solve it. Again, you are making an injustice between extraordinary students of a kind who are working on a work contract and other types of work contract. It is also good that through this law given to the labour inspector to have the authority to monitor the records of the contracted work, fulfilling the obligations in this tripartite actually the relationship between the performers of the work which are students, between the contracting authorities which are employers and the intermediaries that are student centres, it is okay. However, I do not think that we will prevent this from buying student contracts and misusing students to provide a job with their contracts to a third party and thus participate in fraud and I will dare say in illegal actions. We're not students here enough of that to say step away and encourage them not to, and we don't have a good control mechanism. There are penalties, they're not small, but I'm not sure they'll be enough. What I was still trying to say is that I'd like to, I don't mind it, we know that intermediation at this point, student centres that are middlemen in employment have 12% of those fees for intermediation so-called. Commissions. In addition, 0.5% of additional fees will now be introduced that go directly to the student choir or are deployed through the commission but are in most members of the student assembly and are going to improve not the student standard in terms of nutrition, etc. rather than the activities of enriching sports and cultural and other content that go directly to students. Let's not forget that a billion kunas a year turn, whatever you want through student contracts. It's not small money. 12% of that is not less than a billion kuna a year. It's a commission at the student center. Okay. And now it's going to be 0.5% of those billions that go for students directly into their content. Control mechanisms are necessary and necessary to end this money where it is most needed for all students to benefit from it so that what has happened so far, that the student assembly through some competitions sets out its own criteria and grants funds to the former heads of the student assembly. This must not happen no matter what happens in this first-reading assembly on the side of HDZ, we hear that we are angry and that we are criticizing something because we have failed to master the student assembly. What does it mean that a student choir is being ruled? From where? Party, party. If that's the way it is, it's not good. If you think student choirs should be politically ruled, Mr. Falcon, you said that thesis here, and if you give this 0.5 money for political allocation, then it's extremely rude, irresponsible, ugly and bad. I hope that's not an emergency. I think that money should end with all students in the interest of the quality of life of all students, and there I am sorry that you have not made better control mechanisms to control it, to prescribe criteria, to keep the student assembly clean, which I believe is that these are honorable young people who work in the interest of their colleagues because their representatives, their representatives, that there means to remove any doubt from them and to ensure an immeasurable correct process. And we're going to follow that means, the law is good, he has some really good solutions. Unfortunately, however, the law allows students to do all kinds of work and that and those jobs that have all the characteristics of working relationships. So the student contract avoids working relationship and thus also the obligation and rights of employers to the student, and I dare say so is a covert and illegal work. The law does not define occasional student jobs and their work what I was talking about, which means overtime, and we do not think that they should be allowed to be used without any restrictions. They need to be provided with some rights. We believe that the same type of fee should be prescribed for students for the completed student work and for employers who do the same job because if students perform the same jobs as workers for a smaller fee than workers, or with a higher fee for special working conditions, then I will dare say that it is a labour market disturbance, and no cleaning and determining a correct relationship. The law should also comply with the infringements of the Labour Act because, for example, a break from a minor in the Labour Act is prescribed a lower sentence compared to the term of an employer if he commits the offence against a minor. That's not good. Also, we will give in a short time to present our amendments. First, to define students’ experience and hours acquired by the employer through student contracts as student jobs and to actually serve them as a working experience, to recognize them officially as a working experience in future employment. Our second amendment will require that although we have prescribed a minimum fee to prescribe that students or perpetrators have the right to compensation for performing student jobs of 65% of the basic salary prescribed by the employer's acts for the tasks which the student performs that cannot be less than the fee prescribed article we have already said. It means that they are paid equally for a job that performs 65% of the amount compared to the workers who do the same job and the minimum hour to stay the way it is. We ask that not only do students have the right to compensation for travel expenses, compensation for a warm meal and other fees only if it is agreed by a student contract, but if it is the right of workers at work who do the same job as students, we ask that it be provided to students and that it must be agreed to both workers and students, and not at the same company the same job worker has the right, the student does not. That's not right. And one more thing, let's just protect ourselves from really getting fired and being replaced by students who are going to be perceived as cheap labour. How can we do that? It says here you can't hire a student if you gave him a job job within 6 months. Gentlemen, there is also a personal conditioned resignation. Businessly conditioned cancellation is something that is very rare in practice in working relationships because it is complicated, long-term, etc. And we know that in reality there are ways for employers to get rid of older people with personal terms and terms and conditions of termination with some other kind of termination of the contract. We haven't protected the workers, and we haven't secured the abuse of students as a substitute cheaper workforce, so I'm appealing to you, we're going to give one such amendment and I hope you'll respect it that should be extended to all kinds of cancellations. So where there's a surplus labour force in the last six months there shouldn't be a need for a new workforce no matter what the day was and what he's conditioned to have all of this law has a lot of good sides, but there are a lot of our amendments Who tend to improve it. [[Accompanimentary Petrov: Representatives Voter, time is up.]] I hope you'll respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97730	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So colleague Glasovac violated Article 238(6). There are no more items, just one item, here's just to direct you, which says that with its conduct, a representative must not deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. I think it's... It's a lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a colleague of the Voice is to me... that I was talking about the HDZ using student representatives, etc. in the last debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't say that. You can check the stenogram. Please do not spread misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97732	Mr. Sokol, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure because if you will interpret Article 238 and the point of derogation in the form of non-trues, then I should have suffered injuries to the Rules of Procedure while I am a parliamentary representative in benches all the time for MPs from the ruling coalition. The HSS representative's club reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, MP Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97733	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable State Secretary. Here's on behalf of the HSS Club on the final proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs. First of all, it is necessary to say that the academic year has begun and that there has been no pressure from students and student organisations we would probably not be discussing this bill today because we all expected all the student organisations and all the students that with the beginning of this academic year we would have a law passed and that it would already be applied but here, better ever anyone ever. And it certainly needs to be welcomed that this area of student work, the doing of student work is regulated by law so that students are protected and that they can afford extra income to spread your home budget a little bit and help themselves, so that they can study. What is more, it would be ideal for us in Croatia to have the possibility that every young man can enroll in a regular college and that he does not have to do student work, that his parents from their incomes can finance it. It's some kind of society we should be seeking, but here we hope that it will be in Croatia sometime. Right now, it's not good that some kids can't go to college or their parents can't pay them because they're unemployed because they have low incomes. And it would certainly be good to revise and enrolment quotas to colleges. Because college is, above all, an educational institution where young people need to acquire knowledge and skills to be competitive in the labour market and not to be treated sometimes as a profit institution, and then these thresholds and the number of regular students are reduced in order to enroll more outstandingly with payment. So it's also one of the topics that we can certainly put on the agenda here in the assembly and in changes and other laws, and not just this, so that every man can enter a study that he wants and enrolls on a regular basis and that he doesn't have to pay extra. When it's already so good and we welcome what, and it was one of the main requirements of student organisations to equalise student work, to perform student jobs for regular and extraordinary students because for these reasons, and not all of the exceptional students are guilty of being exceptional, some of them are doing it work and some of them are doing it because they couldn't get a certain number of points when enrolment in colleges and are therefore extraordinary or have missed some exams, so they went from regular to extraordinary. And because their family cannot finance their studies, studying is essential for them to work alone. Well, here's the good news. We also have the possibility that extracurricular students can do occasional and temporary student jobs and thus obtain income. What is not clear to us from the HSS, and we want to look for an explanation here why Article 2 puts a student who performs his own activity in agriculture or forestry in the field of occasional student work. Because if he's an O.P.G. holder, he can't even have the status of a regular student and now he's still punishing him if he's an extraordinary student and has an O.P.G. that he can't do student work. On the one hand, through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development, we stimulate them to establish the OPG, to have young OPG, to produce food, to acquire knowledge and skills, to bring more knowledge into production and new technologies into production, and here we limit them if he is an extraordinary student, for example at the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb and comes from Slavonia, why can he not occasionally when there is no work on his OPG to strengthen his home budget by working here to read at some fruit plant in Zagreb County apples or strawberries? I don't think it makes sense to limit them because if he's an OPG carrier or a member of the OPG, he can't do occasional student jobs. If that's the case, then surely we will be against it because we ask that part to be clarified and amended in the bill because if these people are already professionally perfected and they want to gain knowledge and skills and they don't have enough of their own income, why can't they still make extra money on a job, a place where they study? The second thing I'm saying here is this particular price of work. It is good that the minimum amount is prescribed. And what we are proposing from the HSS to change that it is not only once a year is determined in November for next year's minimum gross salary, to be the basis rather than to be weighted twice over the year. Because here, this government is announced to increase the minimum wage. We of the HSS, of the opposition, asked to increase the minimum wage and not make it less than 5,000 kuna in Croatia. Right now, it's much less than that, but it's been announced that there's going to be an increase. And why, if there is a minimum wage increase over the next year, the students would not and the students would increase that base, so it is our proposal that it be every 6 months to determine that minimum amount and not how it is now in the proposal once a year. I think it makes sense. What we were saying in our first reading, and the rest was not defined by the order of jobs that did not pay the students because the largest number of discussions in the preparation of this law and in the adoption of this law by the students themselves was the objection that some employers who order jobs do not pay students and that they do not pay within the contractual deadlines. Part of it was built into the law to protect students. But our proposal was also to publish those lists. What are companies that have not paid or who do not pay the students, that the student knows that he does not contract jobs with such and on the other hand to force them by publicly delivering that information to pay for the ordered and done work of students? I think that would be a good suggestion to help our students in this way. Also for those students who work in the field of occasional work, the proposal has already been said here and I will repeat it, I think we could find a solution to admit it to them in their work experience and thus allow them to access the expert exams before and thus to come to the labour market. And here's another remark on behalf of the HSS Club, you put that after three months. Since schooling, I can no longer do occasional work afterwards. I'd be happy and probably you if every man who finishes college could be in those three months. to work until the next regular, a contract to work with an employer, but most often that's not the case. Well, I think it would be correct if we put that on for six months. For if We have appointed for the officials, that after their term of office, they shall have the right to another six months. Full pay and another six months. half a salary, then we should have allowed the students to have another 6 months. After schooling, until they're able to manage, until somewhere they can get jobs done, if they have a chance with an employer and thus secure their income, so I think we could go that way with the amendments to this law. Because it certainly is not good for the student to be exploited, to pay less than workers and what certainly is not good in Croatia, again, we will repeat, that the largest number of newly concluded work contracts is in speech for a certain time, especially for young people who are first employed. This should be reduced to demand through other legal solutions, to encourage employers to work indefinitely, to allow young people who finish colleges or other higher educations, to get employment and to plan their lives, because through this contract of work, unfortunately, they can't plan anything, they can't, they can't, they can't credit, they can't start any investment, and where tomorrow they're entrepreneurs and I think that in that justice and other legal proposals should be changed. Also, what's important here to say is that for every family, for every man who enters studies, the cheapest to study in his own city, there's no cost of travel, housing etc. and that is why we welcome the decisions on the expansion of the university network in Croatia and universities and still remains our question and I think we can get an answer here in which we are in a phase with the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod. The Senate in Osijek has made a decision, now the government and the ministry are back on track, giving their fellow citizens, from Brod Posavina County and the wider environments that are gravitating colleges in Slavonski Brod are eager to expect that final decision, so that more people can enroll in the desired universities in their city, that they have less cost of studying, and then they won't have to work occasionally. Here are the questions and suggestions that should be further discussed, but certainly this decision on the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod, as soon as possible and that it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97734	Representative Miranda Mrsic has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's one of those sayings that says the way to hell... and good intentions, and I believe that the ministry had good intentions to resolve the question of student work, I will talk all the time about work because it's work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The desire to call it jobs is just the fear of the labour ministry and the pension system, not to be called, why it wasn't the ministry that was supposed to work on this law. Because it's a law in the field of working relations and can a colleague of Sokol, who's likely to replicate me, tell me all the time, that it's not business, that it's not work, it's business. Students work, work 8 hours hours, work 16 hours, work 60 hours a week, work 100 hours a week, and we know that. And we know the same about the abuses of student work because behind the student work, some dishonest jobs were hidden, and through student contracts, funds were withdrawn from the company. And that was what had to be solved by this law. So this law was meant to resolve the question of student work, to give students a fair fee for their work, to define it as work, as a form of work and to remove from the market all those who deal with dishonest jobs, whether it be students, whether it be employers. What I would also point out, that student work should not be a source of funding for study. In a regulated state, it should be an entry into the labour market, where employers could and should thus give students the opportunity to see where they will work in life what they are studying and perhaps allow them to gain a better insight into how it is on the labour market. Because if we are a state, then everyone in Croatia must have an equal chance of education, regardless of their material status. And the state should make sure that those students who have weaker material status, have generous scholarships that they can study. And instead of spending so much resources on defense and having these grand exercises that last for 3 days, which, behold, Minister Krsticevic will not say how much they cost, we should invest these funds in education and education because it is Croatia's future. Unfortunately, the government has missed the opportunity to protect the students and introduce order, rather than what it does in a cosmetic way, it provides a picture like this, now we've arranged it, now it will be all right, but with this law alone, we are legalizing practice in Croatia, and with this law we will not solve any of the problems that I have now highlighted. At this point in Croatia, we lack workers. And the government rather than going after Croatia's wages to increase, to have higher salaries, it puts cheap labour on the market because the student will be the cheapest workforce. There's no cheaper contract than a student contract. And that's what Prime Minister Plenkovic said on several occasions and urged foreign investors to come to Croatia because, well, we have cheap labour and now we're going to have cheap students. Expansion of student work to extraordinary students leads us to have the case that the employer instead of giving the young person work contracts and then sending him to study, will give him a student contract and will work with him for as long as he works. Here we come to the problem that exceptional students in Croatia are not exceptional students but are students who have failed to enroll in some regular college so this is how they will continue to study and this is something that needs to be solved by the Ministry of Education and this is what should have been solved by the Ministry of Labour. The fact that no fundamental remark relating to this law is accepted and will lead to it being good for intermediaries, de facto this is a law on intermediaries that will have a generous means which, regardless of the law's intensity, will be able to spend in a non-transparent way, so I have also proposed an amendment that goes in order for everyone to have an insight into how funds are spent as compensation for student labour contracts. The law was supposed to define work like any other, just to say that in Scandinavian countries where this collective bargaining is most developed, there is no student contract, it does not exist as a contract on the labour market. A student can be employed as well as any other employee and employee. Here we create with this law in the same company of two groups of workers. One employee of that employer and another student. The provision that 50% should be paid more if working nights and holidays is commendable but good intentions do not always cause a good effect because you will have a worker, here is a cashier or someone who will have a 10% increase because it is so defined by a collective contract you will have a student or student who works with him, who will have 50%. Here you force the employer to pay for a warm meal and a trip, and perhaps the workers in that company don't have it. And that's what's wrong with this law. The problem with this law is to create two types of workers in the same company. Students under this law can work until they fall from exhaustion in their workplace. There are no restrictions you have in the Labour Act. There are no restrictions, no time or time limits. Students can work at the time of class. The organisation of a country that has student work defines the time when students contract can be given to a student. Some have defined it as winter work, some have defined it as summer work, some have defined what college doesn't have class. So I also suggested that this amendment, that student employment contracts cannot be issued at a time when students have their duties at university. Students do and you can't get away from it, they do a lot, they work for years, five years, six years, and they don't have anything to do with the pension internship itself. If the Ministry of Labour and Pension System had been involved in this as it should have been then this would have been work first, it would have been contributions and students would have an internship, a retirement internship that would have been very important to them later when they came at the time of their retirement. It would also allow them to be recognised as a working experience because then already at the beginning when they are running to employers for a job, perhaps from the same employer where they were in student work, they would have what they are looking for, a year's work experience. Look, these are all the things that were to be solved through this law. He's a hybrid, one hierarchy between a work contract and a work contract, and you know it yourself, except for a car where we have hybrids where it's positive that in most cases it won't lead to an improvement in the situation on the labour market. You've legalized the negative things that have been going on for years, and it's going to happen and in the future, you haven't solved the problems that are and on the other hand, you haven't sanctioned those who are unfair employers. You should have clearly defined them, so I proposed another amendment so that a list of unfair employers should be published that do not carry out what they should give to students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97736	Thank you. More replicas were presented to this individual participation in the debate, Silvano Hrelja requested the first replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97737	Dear fellow Mrsic, I cannot call this a hybrid because both the work contract and the work contract are paid contributions to health care and pension, the difference between the work contract and the work contract is that the job contract has the right to both travel orders and Christmases, all together. There's no deal on the part. This is overwork, this is a harmful law, this is an unnecessary law for the Republic of Croatia, and it will contribute to making even more profits and how? By not paying for work. You're right, some Scandinavian desires, of course they don't charge for the work of students or taxes, or health insurance, because like us students are health insurance. But they pay pension contributions, they work up to 20 hours a week during the debate, and for break time can work full-time and overtime. [[Invader Petrov: Time is up, MP Hrelja.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97738	Thank you, Mrsic, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97739	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja that, when I was talking about the hybrid, I wasn't talking about a hybrid that had postulated contracts at a certain time and contracts on, but simply tried to make out of the principle of one and the other, contracting something that was third and which failed in this law. Instead of reducing the compensation for those intermediaries, which I think is too large and for contributions to be paid, therefore, contributions to pension insurance, would allow our students to have an internship and you could have done so in law. Raising student work, i.e. student standard, is commendable, but this can be financed by the state and not by the students themselves. And those 12% that have been so far, you could re-purpose into contributions to pension insurance and allow students to have an internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97740	Thank you. Representative Stephen Curaj asked for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97741	I thank the Vice President, dear colleague Mrsic, of course we can agree on some things, I will try these minutes, too brief. What matters most is that of yours, you mentioned that we introduce cheap labour, this law increases the minimum rate, it actually collects the work of students, which should be carried out on its own on equivalent jobs and labour prices and normal employees. You said that extraordinary students and now they're going to have a problem, that no one's going to hire them anymore, recently rather than go through college, but the very purpose of the occasional job, is that of that miserable student. He doesn't want to go to the labour market, he wants to study, and he has a chance to earn occasionally. Also, I don't get there now, says the compensation for a warm meal and a trip is imposed, not only in the law defined, that it is possible, not imposed, it is possible to agree and the constant difference between experience and internship. And so far it could have had experience... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97742	Time, MP Curai, your time is up, Agent Curai. Replica response, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97743	A fellow Curaj extraordinary student is employed, at least so in law, until now until we change, so, ha change the law, therefore an extraordinary student who has an employment contract. And it's an extraordinary student, it's a regular one that we have a contract to work with, it's one thing, and the other when we talk about minimum wage, then yours, it's not good for you, but the HDZ Minister, who is therefore Minister Pavić, will not change the definition of minimum wage, because employers in minimum wage, suffer everything and norm and night work and overtime. So the minimum wage is for these workers, less than they'll have a student. So you're creating again, this way two groups of employees. Those who will have a bill by law or, therefore, a captain under the law on student affairs and those who will have minimum wages under the law, it will not be the same, until HDZ changes, why... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97744	Representative Mrsic has run out of time for you, I would ask you to really stick to the time, you voted the rules where you have rules that you have new and stick to it when you have raised your hand for him. Representative Domagoj Mikulić asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97745	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, I listened to your debate and what I was wondering, in what conditions you studied, what kind of admissions you had during your study and it would be good to see you, take advantage of the opportunities here and talk to the students. Because what I saw in you is a big dose of social insensitivity. The second thing, you were the Minister of Labour, you could define this student work as you wanted, but the same thing, and you left it to do. Your colleague kept saying here, that there is a colleague Curaj and all of us together that there are fuses to distinguish and protect exactly the work and that the student work would not go to harm, and that is the salary you are now talking about in your replica. So what you said is that it applies to all the extraordinary students, it's not true, it applies to those students who are not in a working relationship. So take it as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97746	Thank you, Mrsic, for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97747	I know that you have to defend the law, it's clear to me, and when we talk about social sensitivity, then it should be very sensitive to this law, this law is not socially sensitive, it's unfair. He's also unfair to students, he's unfair to workers. And in your replica, you didn't once bring down what I said with your thesis. First, at the same time, in the same company will be workers who will have less, will be paid by hours and students who will be more. And yet from another stop, there will be workers who will have a limit, according to the labour law to protect them from overwork, so, maximum 40 hours a week and you will have students, who will be able to work 12, 16 hours a day. Because this law doesn't cross it. Students can work as long as the employer wants. And instead of solving it with this law, we didn't do it, which I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97748	Thank you Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97749	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Mrsic, I personally don't mind where it is located, whether it's in one or the other. And I can tell you from my personal experience, that my thesis regarding this law is, starting with when I was a student and I was working through a student service. And compared to that time, this law still corrects some things. We know what it corrects and we know what doesn't correct objectively by saying. But will it solve all the abuses in the field? They will not, as other laws do not. The Terran always has its gray zones and we know it. It is not solved by any law, and it cannot be solved by a letter on paper, and so it always will be. Unfortunately, are we in agreement with that or are we not able to discuss it? I'm sure we didn't. Practice to show Thank you very much. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97750	Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97751	Yes, the law will not solve all the problems but the law should give direction to solve the problem and allow these problems to be solved. This law does not do so, that it only sanctions the existing situation and gives the existing state a legal framework. So it's legal to do that, it's legal to take advantage of students, it's legal for students to work for 5, 6 years. It is legal to fire a worker and hire a student because the law did not foresee all the reasons for the cancellations that were in the Labour Act. Well, there wouldn't have been so many students working at the call centres in the area if there wasn't a way to get rid of the worker. Therefore, this law should equalise student work with work defined by the Labour Act. And it's in all the countries it's like that. We do what we do here wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97752	Representative Grozdana Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97753	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, at the time when I was a student, you were about to be yourself, I also worked through a student service, and I didn't have it all worked out, all the conditions in the sense that I had scholarships, that I had it all worked out so I didn't need to make any extra money, so we can't deprive the students today, or prevent them from working, and that no matter how much they have, I can provide additionally. I think you're mixing the deal on the work, the contract on the work, and everything else so that in legal regulation it's a little bit, a little weird. And we can't, we can't talk about it, about the number of hours, whether it should be installed, so it's compared to a German model that has up to 20 hours over it that's something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97754	Thank you. Time's up. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97755	Thank you very much. And I was working through a student service but at the time when I could considering my study of medicine, so over the summer. So, I know what it looks like back then, that was a long time ago. And the student service is, or student work is something that is desirable but should be well regulated. We can't leave in this the possibility of students being exploited and this law leaves it. And it leaves that unfair practice that employers have to change students. This will be increasingly pronounced given that salaries will grow and employers will be increasingly expensive and would rather reach out for cheap student work, for a cheap student who is then not protected by the Labour Act, who can do as much work as he wants, who is not protected by the Labour Protection Act, who has no restrictions on work. So these are all things that aren't defined. Can a student work, here's a question, can a student work on dangerous jobs?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97756	Thanks, thanks, time's up, thanks. Representative Vesna Bedekovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97757	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, I will refer to your thesis with which I will agree that student work should not be a source of funding for study but, therefore, an entry for the market and actually a sort of preparation for the market. Unfortunately, living and I would say to a large part of the students, student work is now a source of income that allows him to study regularly, was remarkable. And this law is trying to adapt to it. And so I'm somehow trying to understand your conscious or perhaps subconscious need to attack this law. We haven't done anything like this in 22 years. And among other things, as Minister of the Resort Ministry of Labour from 2011 to 2015, you were on occasion to do something, so you were able to contribute. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Petrov: Thank you. Thank you. Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97758	Thank you. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97759	So I, as minister, started making laws in agreement with Minister Jovanovic. So at the time I was a minister, we did it and it was done by the Ministry of Labour. It didn't work for the Ministry of Education because it's the work of the Ministry of Labour. This is the Law on Student Work, not the Law on Education. And that's what the Ministry of Labour was supposed to do, and that's what I've been saying all along. And I agree with your thesis that unfortunately students do not have funds in Croatia we are not such a state but we should seek a state that provides students with good scholarships, homes and everything else that those who are weaker material opportunities can study. And education can't depend on whether you have, your parents have money or not. And by this law, I'm attacking him, not because I don't think he should have, he should have brought it, there was a chance to bring it, but it was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97760	Thank you. Representative Maria Alfirev, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97761	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrsic, really when we talk about student work or work, I really think this is about work. Because there's an important difference between what a student does in a bar, or performs from, meaning unlike someone who's a working contract, like a waiter who does those jobs. So is there even a difference, depending on whether or not we can call what a student performs in relation to someone else who is employed in a cafe? What I understand, I understand really the intensities of students, I understand the intensity of extraordinary students, but this law really poses a real danger of exploiting the students themselves, or that this law is exclusively for the benefit of employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97762	Thank you, time is up, reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97763	I agree with your thesis that this is about work, and that's what I'm saying, and I'm gonna keep saying it all the time that this is about work. So student affairs are just an excuse that the law is not the law that was to be made by the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. And if the student affairs were the same, it would be because the job is business, it is the job of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and besides, Minister Pavic is a weak minister who has failed to fight to do this law. And when we talk about the labor contract, then the student labor contract could have been cheaper. Why we give 12% to student centers could be 6%. Students are provided with health care anyway, so you don't have to pay 15%. Well, here, it's 21% cheaper for you than a working contract than a classic worker. That was the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97764	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97765	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs., in your presentation, you said you were legally exploiting students. I would say this, the state is not able to give all the scholarship students what they should. Then employers are likely to use it legally and I don't think he's using it because that same employer has made it possible for a student to work with his own space, his own infrastructure. And you must know that the mass of students is neither trained nor able to do any jobs and yet the employer takes them, in a way rewards students. And if students are more paid by workers, it's not true, of course, they should call employers who don't pay, who are making crime, it's maybe 1.2%, so I think it's a good thing that students have a lot of rights and that they are given the opportunity to raise their bad standards if we know that we have 62,000 associations that the state finances, which we should reduce at least 50 less, I mean, it doesn't ask a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97766	Thank you. Time's up. Replica response, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97767	Honest employers will always pay their workers and always pay their students. The dishonest will not pay the workers or the students, this law will not solve it. The dishonest will always be unfair, but we can sanction them in a way that we can get them out of the labour market whenever they don't pay workers, which is legal but regulatory, or through this law. Why not publish a list of employers who do not fulfil their obligations by virtue of a contract on the work of students? And don't tell me that now the employers are altruists because they give students the opportunity to work on employers' machines... The employer hired these workers to profit from it, that's because he wouldn't normally be an employer but in that he shouldn't use people, he shouldn't use students, and this law allows the use of students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can work under this law until they fall from fatigue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97768	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97769	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, therefore, and the transport of students from home to school does not solve the Ministry of Science and Education, it is resolved by the Ministry of Transport, clearly, because it exceeds you, the problem exceeds the capacity of the ministry and is not in their domain. It is equally with labour law which falls within one of the more serious and extensive rights that must be established. And in that sense, I also want to point out what I said today, and you specifically pointed out, here we are only talking about work, about the work of students. I agree with you, perhaps the Ministry of Labour only one chapter should be dedicated to the work of students but it is certainly about work and the main emphasis should be and therefore the ministry is not ambitious. If we are already talking about the work of students, then we must talk about such work as smart, young people will be able to contribute both to the employer and to this society and not to go for bread and feathers and to clean the circle, the factory.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97770	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97771	Comrade Sagar, I agree with you that this law was needed by the Ministry of Labour. Well, I don't think the Ministry of Education would allow the Ministry of Labour to do the Law on Higher Education, so it wouldn't, would it? And here's something that's a working relationship, which is work, for the Ministry of Education and people have done what they could do best because they just don't know the matter and I'm saying again, this should have been done by the Ministry of Labour because this is about work, and apparently Minister Pavić didn't want to go into conflict with Minister Divjak, or maybe Minister Divjak thought that this would have a bigger PR and a better PR that she needed in view of the reform of education. And that's the only thing I see why this law didn't work at the Ministry of Labour because there are experts there who are experts in labour law, it's in the works of the ministry, and maybe someone will explain to me why it was done by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97772	Thank you. Before we continue with the replicas, students VI are with us today. Os Varazdin, I'd like to welcome them with a round of applause. A fellow representative, Sabina Glasovac, asked for a replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honestly, my colleague Mrsic, it is less important to me who is the maker of this law, is it the Ministry of Education or is the Ministry of Labour or has been working on a working group in which representatives of various resolutions and associations are represented as usual. What I think is missing in this law, which is to bring some items into line and that the workers, in this case, students working through student contracts, whether they're regular or extraordinary, are equally in some rights with workers. Not to happen, not that the same job in a company has a different watch, worker and exceptional student, but will potentially be able to come to a situation where an extraordinary student, who is employed by the Labour Act which is currently 37,000 in Croatia, is 27 pardoned for example 40 hours because he is in a working relationship, and for the same job, his fellow exceptional student who works through a student contract, which we will provide him with this law, which in these 16 000 will be paid for it 21 kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97774	Thank you. I'm sorry to the other MPs. I didn't see you guys really missed your time. reply to the replica, representative Mrsic. [[Intruder: That's not fair.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97775	Thank you very much. I do not agree with you that it does not matter, it is important because this law was meant to work in the Ministry of Labour which is in the area, who knows how to do it, and the role of the Ministry of Education was only on two things, which students and at what time. And nothing more. So this was supposed to be in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system, so then it wouldn't have happened that the misdemeanor provisions had exploded that were completely deviating from the Labour Act, so they're completely different there. It's 100 for work here. 000,00 kn. If you have a student working for you, then it's completely different, what's the difference between a student and a student in breaking orders? And if it had worked for the Ministry of Labour then it would have been clear that it would have been harmonised. And that's the problem with this law that it wasn't the ones whose job it was, it was someone else's. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97776	Representative Tomislav Sokol has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97777	Representative Tomislav Sokol has applied for individual participation in the debate. TOMSLAV SOKOL: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here is after all the misinformation that has been made, I must change the concept of my individual debate, so unfortunately, unfortunately for my great regrets, I devote myself to everything that has been said so far and most of it be denied. So, first of all, when it comes to the Ministry, who's a strong minister, etc. Therefore, the decision to set up a working group was taken in the second month of 2017. At the time, the Minister of Labour and Pension System was not Marko Pavić, nor was the Minister of Science and Education Blaženka Divjak. So, this combination of Mr. Mrsic who who the minister is stronger than who, who dares or dares to oppose, has nothing to do with the relationship. As far as the bill itself is concerned, he was passed, so the draft was completed at the 9th month last year. So, a year ago, pure information works. As for the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, if Mrsic had listened, as probably not a club debate, he would have heard they were represented in the task force. In fact, we've had several inter-resorial meetings with them. So, at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions and the Ministry of Science and Education, they had insight into the whole process of drafting draft laws and could at any moment comment and make comments. Somewhere... the remarks they've made just to avoid the notion of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, while fellow Mrsic argues he is calling for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, he says this should be called a working relationship, which is the same ministry against calling this work. So obviously there's a lot of confusion in some of our colleagues. Furthermore, mostly as far as I'm concerned, I'd generally say two things. So here we first have the wish of some representatives and some parties to protect the students from themselves. So we protect them from extermination, you students, although you don't want it, and we know they don't want it because legitimately elected student representatives support this law. Today we held together a press conference with them where they gave him support and were also involved in the task force and precisely most of these things, these restrictions that are proposed on this side of the pay phone, were just students against them. Why were the students against them? Just because it's the idea of student work, that means it's not the same thing as a working relationship. It is occasional, it is temporary and allows students to perform certain tasks, such as seasonal ones that you simply cannot limit to 8 hours a day. So it's not typical jobs, it's not a working relationship, it's that conceptual difference that my colleague Mrsic wants it to be a working relationship, but in that case we don't really need to have a special law. If it's all even with a working relationship. If taxes and contributions are paid equally, then it is a working relationship, almost, no student work and that is what Mrssic wants, the public should know. So he wants to cancel his student work. So, all of this contentious stuff he said, it's actually the taste of his discussion. Now, if you move all those differences between working relationships and student jobs, then student work and student jobs as a special category no longer exist. And that's what students don't want. Now, we also have an misunderstanding about how the labour market works in reality. So, not on the side of the law and the paragraph, but in reality. So, if you're banning student work, then all of these students won't suddenly get a contract indefinitely. Because it turns out, so let's cancel the defacto student work and then all these employers will have to give these same people a contract indefinitely. He won't. You'll just get more black and gray economy. It's precisely because these are jobs that are specific, seasonal jobs, etc. There may be professional jobs, but then it is regulated through professional practices etc., but the good part of these jobs are occasional, temporary, seasonal jobs that are simply not natural to be concluded for them. That's exactly what they're working on. It's a deep misunderstanding that we see on the other side, which is why some would actually end student work. And I think that's what we all need to know together. Specific things, so as far as restrictions are concerned, it's not true that there are no restrictions, except for these practical ones. We have that provision to avoid labour market disturbances. Because it is deliberately set wide, precisely so that competent authorities can interpret it depending on how the reality of the labour market changes. Furthermore, we have that tax limit, so over 60,600,00 kn per year more student jobs don't fall into the more favourable tax category. Not to mention those benefits, tax breaks for parents, and that's going to be practically the situation where it's simply going to be invaluable for those students to work, I don't know, thousands and thousands of hours a year, and that danger doesn't exist. Especially since we have data from student centres that show that the huge percentage of student jobs are just seasonal jobs,... jobs up to 3 months, those that are longer than that are very small. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the problem here is definitely not a key problem for the labour market. Furthermore, some colleagues are bothered by the fact that students are cheaper than working relationships, sometimes it bothers them that they are more expensive. For example, on the one hand, it bothers generally that students are cheaper because it's like unfair competition, but when they're given greater rights, just to make them more equal with workers, generally, this 50% increase for working on holidays and so on, then that bothers them. So I don't know who's here, there's obviously some inaccuracies about what some people really want and what they think. If we want to raise, it means... Captain, standards all of this and increase the protection of students or we don't want to. Now, when compared to extraordinary students who work, who are in a working relationship and those who are not, otherwise also colleague Mrsic said one inaccuracy. It means exceptional students under Article 86. The law on high-school scientific activities is not only students who are in the workplace, but who also have special schedules because of other activities. So, my colleague Mrsic doesn't even know the laws he quotes or tries to quote. Mostly why, mostly as far as the 50% increase story is concerned, there are no collective agreements in student jobs, and there can be no collective agreements. And now what's the solution, if we didn't put those 50% into law, which we should refer to. We wouldn't have anything to refer to when collective agreements can't be applied to student work. In other words, when colleagues argue against this provision, they actually advocate an increase in work on Sundays and holidays, but that's what to say, because I don't know what the alternative is, because once again the collective contract can only be in working relationships, I think it's quite clear. If these collective agreements don't give enough rights to workers, so here we have collective agreements to change, I don't know why my colleague Mrsic, while he was a minister, insisted that collective contracts and fees be raised, but now he's very concerned that collective agreements in some situations give less rights than we do through this law. So, again, I'm saying one whole confusion. Furthermore, there was a lot of talk about retirement and work experience, work experience, and that's where the concepts got mixed up. So, you can't regulate the pension internship issue by this law there are rules in the area of pension insurance, which colleagues who were particularly ministers of the portfolio should know. As for work experience, look again at a little reality, meaning the work experience in the natural sector will evaluate every employer, you don't have to give him what the law prescribes if he won't recognize the work experience like this. That's what every employer on the labour market is assessing for what he admits he doesn't. So it can only be relevant in the public sector, but again every area of the public sector, every ministry, agency, etc. again has its reasons for its own rules of specific activities which will be recognised as work or will not. For example, student jobs that are seasonally difficult to recognize as work experience. So let's not try to redecorate things, let's not think that by law we can solve things simply by other means. So that is, that protection at work, another colleague, Mrsic, shows that he has not read the law means Article 13 paragraph 8 is explicitly referred to rules on protection at work. So it's not true that these regulations are inapplicable to students. Right now, it is prescribed, and even so that the law could be implemented properly, the jurisdiction of the labour inspection is explicitly prescribed. Now you can say again that this isn't a working relationship, it's not, but it's just what we have and what's closest to what we're trying to do right now. But I'm saying that's why we need to read the law and read the provisions before it's criticized. It has also been mentioned repeatedly that black lists of employers should be made public. You have a legal basis for this, in fact, already in one way, so you have an article 9th paragraph 15, where it is explicitly stated that the student centre intermediary will not be in full responsibility for non-payment of salaries if it was written previously warned the student that this employer often does not pay salaries, etc. In other words, we thus stimulate those student centres that do not keep such records to start running them and which can be made available to students. So that's another thing that we have in this law, and let's say we put that provision into law on the suggestion of some student centres that are already doing it. That's another thing that's been prescribed, and it's been said that it's not prescribed. As for the purchase of the contract, so we said the high sanctions are that's what my colleague Glasovac mentioned and we have the jurisdiction of the labour inspection. So we've got control mechanisms, and so we don't have to go around saying that these mechanisms aren't there. Finally, as for the distribution of those 0.5% means it is not up to the student assembly itself to decide, the commission proposes, the director of SC signs, and SC has to publish the criteria for the distribution of these funds and, ultimately, the ministry is carrying out supervision. So it's not true that the student choir is giving itself the means to be implicated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97778	Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97779	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, here in law we have something that speaks of extraordinary students, extraordinary students were once people who could only be those who studied at work. It's not like that anymore. You have three lines at law school today. You have those that are registered without payment, those who sign up with payments and the third are extraordinary, so maybe it was 4-5 years ago, maybe not today, but 4-5 years ago when my son signed up it was like that and the third were immediately given the status of extraordinary students because they didn't work. So these were the ones who laid down the admissions, so it seems to me that the topic of an extraordinary student is something that this ministry needs to solve with the concept of what it is. Either we have three or two or three types of those who, thanks to everything, have been given the opportunity for the state to pay for their study and those who pay for their studies. And that's where it's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Define and create... [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97780	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97781	Thank you very much, so here I agree with you, I fully agree with you that the issue of extraordinary students is actually a matter that needs to be resolved. This question, however, is not regulated by some specific rule, that is, in Article 86(2). The Act on Scientific Activity, High Education as a roof law, which sets that definition in such a way that they are persons or in a working relationship or which, for the sake of other activities, they must have a specific schedule, etc. which can be interpreted very broadly. So I'm not, so I'm actually happy that the adoption of this law has also triggered this debate about how in the roof law that regulates the high-security system, this area is regulated. Because the fact is that today's regulation leaves space so that it can be understood very broadly that it actually charges tuition and we all know it, so I think it should be thought about when a new roof law on higher education will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97782	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sokol, of course we want to protect the students, but when you give students some rights that workers in the labor contract do not have, for example, 50% more paid for working on holidays or Sundays. Then you're actually putting in an unequal position of workers, or you're opening up a whole series of abuse options from that because we should all have equal treatment in terms of protection and their rights, and we're giving them some more rights than workers, so I don't think that's right, even though we want to protect them. But last and not least, this law does not actually solve the problems that led students to rebel in 2017, however, it does not touch these problems at all, and in fact this legal proposal has been used and turned into satisfying the interests of student assemblies and private universities, not students who are trying to protect this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97784	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97785	Thank you very much. Well, fellow, we don't know what kind of abuses you're talking about when student work is already, it's cheaper and more attractive, that's what Mrsic says, than working relationships. We are in this way trying to in some way raise those rights that students have in terms of which are less than workers have, that's why. And the other thing, you realize, in a labor contract, you have collective contracts that prescribe it, they're not here. So this is either how you're gonna fix it or you're not gonna have anything. You won't have any protection for students on holidays or anything like that. As far as what triggered the whole thing, it is settled and largely already resolved through tax regulations that should be, which are subject to resolution, so that there is nothing controversial and as far as opting for private interests, here I really don't see where it sees the benefit of private interests especially when you see conditions for the establishment of student centre mediators, they are so high-ranking that it is likely in practice to establish existing universities and higher universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97786	Thank you. Ante Babic's representative reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97787	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Sokol, regardless of the opposition and distortion of facts, should actually be said that because of this Regulation on intermediation in the employment of regular students on whom there have been a series of objections were both in the working group and in the debate with the interested public students themselves. So the students and their proposals that were related to this bill were included in this final bill. That's the most important thing. And you yourself said that both students and students are satisfied with this final bill. Perhaps one more thing to say, it seems to me that you emphasized it, that student work is not a profession, it may be but primarily it is not about what counterpart Miranda Mrsic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97788	Replication response, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97789	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, I'm glad you mentioned the '96 rule, and why am I glad? Because I'd like to point out once again that all the news is in relation to what we've had so far, and that's what's really important, what's not said enough. So the work of extraordinary students, prescribing minimum fees, increasing for holidays on Sundays, etc., prescribed high sanctions for violations of regulations including the conclusion of fictitious contracts,... inspect work, electronic forms, prescribed conditions for carrying out the activities of intermediaries that have not been established so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all the things that we haven't had so far that they all actually raise the level of protection for students and that's what matters. And so to say that this law does not achieve its goal and that it goes to abuse, it simply does not stand. I'm going to ask the question of the other side of the assembly, why didn't they do anything in their term to put that rule out of force to pass the law? However, some ministry employees told me you'll never pass this law, it's too much of an interest there. Well, we're still here, so it can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97790	Representative Sabina Vosovac has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma colleague Sokol, you've been working on this bill, which is why you're defending him like this, even for moments you forget that you're an agent and you're not here as a proponent by the government on this side of the bench. So I'm asking you, here's one thing. How are you going to consummate Article 13(3) where the performer or student in this case is entitled to a 50% increase in overtime fees? Which means never. Because you didn't even determine what overtime is. Students can be exploited as much as they want under this law. Day, week, month. And you won't pay them 50% for overtime. And don't lie to them with this law. And that's what you just did here. And secondly, you say it's not the same student contract and working relationship. Well, of course it's not the same. The only difference is that student jobs are temporary and occasional and not that your colleague has a working relationship with you with 40 kuna captain, this 20, just because he's a student.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97792	You're out of time, thank you. Replication response, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97793	Thank you. Well, we've already said a lot about it. So nobody lies about it, becomes mechanisms of limitations, and that's the part next to that cell that pays after which you just don't belong to a more favourable tax treatment, and then there's just no reason to, you know, change with each other anymore. The other thing we said is, also that replacement of workers and students, we have that 6-month rule. that a person cannot be employed, so that these limits exist and exactly what I once again said, means it's temporary and occasional jobs, many of them are seasonal, further restrictions prescribed simply had nothing to do with real life and has nothing to do with the abuse of students and ultimately, the student representatives were against it. So here, he says, I simply don't see any particular problems but I admit that maybe this provision of the law that one segment is a little rough, that's what got through to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97794	Thank you. Representative Vesna Bedekovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97795	Thank you very much. I listened to your presentation quite carefully, and what I find important here is that I am glad that you actually said in a conceptual sense I would very well explain the essence of the Law on Student Affairs, i.e. the essence of the Law on Student Affairs, lies precisely in the difference between the work of students and the work of a working relationship. So this law introduces a special category, so student affairs as a special category of work that has an occasional and temporary character, i.e. seasonal character. And there is therefore the right to distinguish between the right based on a labour contract that is regulated by the Labour and Labour Act on the basis of the conduct of student jobs based on a student contract that needs to and must be regulated by the Law on Student Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97796	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97797	Thank you very much. Well, exactly, colleague, that's exactly it. So the ultimate thing that we need to raise awareness and define whether we need student work, i.e. student jobs as a special category or not. We have concluded that we need, those who think they don't need it is their right. But what we need to say is, that story, now that we're practically working fully equal to the working relationship, are we going to achieve the occasional jobs that, the temporary jobs that are being done for a week, two, maybe very intensely like the tourist season, will someone, will the employers who have done it through the student service, will give these people, will they give contracts on work? He won't. More like gray, black, and who knows how. And that's what this is about. So I'm saying, so one thing is life, one thing is when something is looked at on the side of some kind of general level, but I'm saying, you can't legally regulate every single thing like that, you won't have an effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97798	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97799	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sokol, when it comes to students, we are on the same side. What we want, what we want to warn you about, and this legislative proposal has come as far as I'm aware of the students' initiative, if that's true. And we should first ask ourselves what the purpose of student work is. To us, we have today a high percentage of students leaving college. I think it's about 40% according to research. And the purpose of student work to allow students, to enable them to study, to those who are weaker property status. So that's the purpose of student work. And there's no doubt about it at all, it needs to be possible for students to work. However, students on the other hand have a mediator and have an employer. Now that middleman, one middleman was in 15 years twice in recovery. Foods went missing, said they ate mice, said they ate pepper and cried mice, but those groceries disappeared. On the other hand, we have employers who are not all well-meaning. You have a bunch of employers who came to money through privatisation and who are now gaining wealth through contracts with the public and state administration. And we need to protect our students from such people, and that remark may have been better done by the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97800	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97801	Thank you very much. Well, that, and the key question is precisely the purpose of student work. However, it should also be realistic there. So if we don't need student work, if we say everyone needs to, everyone who needs to study will have a free study at the expense of the state and scholarships. But what will this accomplish? You will achieve that you will actually reduce the number of students enrolled. So the state has as much resources as it has. It was this government that increased the number of scholarships, very much compared to what was at the time of the SDP government. At the time, they were not so concerned about how students would pay for their studies, etc. But that's what this is about. The fact is that the state can't finance everything, the fact is that even people that the state may not be able to finance for this reason or for that reason should be allowed to study, so why not give the possibility of additional profits. I think it's absolutely positive. As for the middleman, for the first time in our law, we tried to regulate the conditions that intermediaries must meet. And now, as far as the recovery is concerned, I think it's too broad a subject and it just can't be solved by this law right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97802	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97803	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Hawk, you can't impute me to be a student worker, I'm here to regulate student work, which is not what this law has done. And when we talk about getting to know the law, then let me just tell you, the minister doesn't negotiate collective agreements. Collective agreements are negotiated by employers and trade unions. The minister has nothing to do with it, so it's SDP or HDZ. And secondly, you talk about jobs all the time and this law oversees labour inspection, the Labour Protection Act applies but does not apply to the Labour Act. And that's what we've been saying all along, that this is the law of the Department of Labour and you've been in it. I have to tell you, you don't know the work and the working relationships and you're adamantly defending this law. And all the time you talk about work, don't talk about jobs. So this is a law from the Department of Labour's department.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97804	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97805	Thank you very much. First about who knows, who doesn't know work relations is seen by your results when you were a minister, so I don't think I'm going to go down to that level at all to get into that story. As regards the powers of ministers in collective agreements, it has firstly the power to negotiate in part of state and public services and, of course, to adopt a regulatory framework, which is the Labour Act and all other regulations affecting collective agreements. So you can't exculpate yourself from your responsibilities here. As far as working relationships are concerned, you're in favor of abolishing student work. But if you fully equate them with working relationships, if you put that tax, contribute, etc., exactly the same treatment as working relationships, you de facto leveled them. Then more student jobs, again, have no special purpose and are not a special category. And that's what you're actually talking about and what you stand for. But then please say it directly, don't be so hard, avoid something, manipulate it or something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97806	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Domagoj Mikulić reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97807	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State Ramljak, with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. To begin with, I would like to welcome the members of the Croatian Student Assembly as the highest presidential body of students in the Republic of Croatia who are here at the gallery today. I want to congratulate them on their endurance. Today, 662 days have passed since the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision establishing a working group to draft a bill to regulate better employment and the work of students. For 22 years, students in the Republic are waiting for a clearer definition, for a new law that would replace this current labour rule, regular students who were adopted when one, perhaps most of today's students were not actually born. It's in the rulebook on page two. and Article 14 defined a student job, in which more than a billion kuna was paid annually. I think it says enough about the necessity of adopting a more concrete framework and it is also very important to highlight here, that students and student centres and employers and trade unions and a number of others participated in the creation of the law itself, and that a very high level of compromise has been reached, and now it is time for us to end this waiting and finally edit the area itself. As they have shown in these years and I have found this law, it should be important for all those present for several reasons, primarily because at Croatian universities, more than 150 thousand students are studying and this very bill puts all students of higher education in the Republic of Croatia in an equal position. It also includes those 40,000 extraordinary students who are not essentially seeking any privileges, but are only asking for their right to work and to earn their own income for all the costs of studies, accommodations, and everyday life with which to redeploy their family budgets. So all those students who aren't in a working relationship, the entry into force of this law, will be able to work through a student service. What is also extremely important and this law clearly defines for the first time the obligations of intermediaries and job-orders, intermediaries will have the right, but also the obligation to ensure the payment of the employer's claim, to pay compensation to students for the work done, within 15 days of the handover of the contract. In some ways, this law prevents payouts and exploiting students who have also happened. An important item of the law is the definition of the conditions and ways in which a student contract is concluded under which the system is finally introduced and digitised. So instead of a multiple walk from the student centre to the employer and back, students will have their own contracts through several mouse clicks. This will also lead to a time saving, a discharge of SC's work itself, and certainly to an increase in the transparency of the student work system. The bill also defines how income from mediation is used, so that intermediaries will be obliged to take care of the improvement and development of student standards, but also to allocate part of the funding to promote the development of cultural, artistic sports, educational and scientific events among students, which I am sure will take into account the increasing number of student programmes and projects reported year by year right to students, through student work and projects to help develop their skills, which they will need on the labour market tomorrow after graduation of the university. Here we have today, and the public has had a lot of controversy, whether adopting this law, students, will become a cheap workforce, as well as that students will steal someone's jobs and that's not exactly true, it's clear when we take into account what's being passed by this law, and that's a minimum working hour for students, which should amount to about 21.5 kn, who, if they work full-time, by that hour, the employers cost the same thing, even more, compared to the constantly employed minimal worker. The law itself will not damage the labour market, insurance is therefore a provision that a student cannot be employed in the workplace unless within 6 months. for the same job for a business conditioned reason fired the worker. These are let's say two basic fuses with this tax on 15 and 60 grand. My opinion is that it's up to students to decide for themselves how much they're actually going to work, how much they need to work, because they are, and I believe they know best what they need, but primarily they're students and then they're just workers. For all of these reasons, Croatian students have been telling them for years, especially in recent months, that they need this law, as they need it, behind 17,000 students at the University of Osijek, from which I come more than 150 thousand students in the Republic of Croatia. With all this in mind today, what we've heard, in a way I invite you, colleagues and colleagues to say how important it is to us and to adopt the final proposals of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, and finally after 22 years we define this one area that is not small and that is worth more than a billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97808	Representative Grozdana Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97809	My dear colleague, you mentioned that this law, and it should be pointed out that with this setting of minimum wages is divided by 160 it actually comes to 21.50 kn minimum hour, which has been since 15-35 kn. It's important to say that she's been lower by now, and that she's now increasing her student training captainship. Also, what should be noted is that in the contract itself, there are so far certain contributions, which is a contribution to the pension from the first pillar. So it's not true that there are no contributions, and that they are not treated the way it is under the Labour Act, it's simply a different nature of the contract. We have here in art. 13. that performer who performs jobs at least 6 hours a day, has the right to half an hour's answer, and then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97810	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97811	I thank my colleague, I think there should be a distinction here between work and student work, we've heard data, students work on average from one to four months, during their years of working out of need, they don't work out of anything else, so it's important here to emphasize once again that there has to be a distinction between classical work and student work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97812	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97813	Here's colleague Mikulić and colleague Sokol, all the time you're talking about work, the truth is, here I am, from 10 times 9 times said work... jobs according to that, and you said students are workers, yes, students are workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now explain to me how you're going to solve Article 13 that the employer is going to pay the worker 50% more overtime, when you don't have a definition of what overtime is and how many students can work? Is that 8 hours a day, 10 hours a day, is that a week 60 hours, 72 hours, 100 hours, how you define it and make the employer say, you student, you work 10 hours, 8 hours I'll pay you, this is overtime, no, he'll say, you work 10 hours, why should I pay overtime. Therefore, there you see that you went the wrong way and that you made it possible to exploit students, and that is very clear. You were running away from the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97814	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97815	Well, dear colleague Mrsic, work and work are practically the same for me. As for the hours that students will be renewing, it may not be a bad thing to define some upper limit as far as they can work, but again, I repeat, it may be best for students to be left behind because they have different needs too, so if they need it, let them do more, the one who doesn't need it will work less. So you'd best leave it on them even though I wouldn't mind if we had some hourly limit per week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97816	Representative Vesna Bedeković reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97817	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, I am pleased that you are again and I think it is necessary to stress this, that you have stressed that the proposal of this law is designed in cooperation with students and that, in cooperation with students, a high level of consensus has been achieved with this proposal and what you have pointed out, I think again, that it is important that this law gives students the right to work and to earn and in this sense the the thesis that we could hear between the lines in different discussions, protect students from students, protect students from students, protect students from workers, so that it all falls into the water with an emphasis on the sentence that there is no need to be afraid of students because there is room for everyone, the market is wide enough for students and workers from working relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97818	Time's up, thanks. Replica response, MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97819	Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that places for everything should be and will be, and what you might point out, today some here may be the loudest in the assembly, and it is those who missed when they had the chance to define something, so we have a rule of two pages and 14 articles dating back to 1996, over the past 22 years that haven't dealt with it, and here today are the biggest opponents of what we are, the government of the Republic, and we all together who support it, we're trying to regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97820	Representative Sokol has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97821	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, you mentioned that this law won't make use of students, I mean what needs to be emphasized and what is forgotten, well, that's what you mentioned at the end is, that this law almost... The provision raises the level of protection of students compared to what has been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we've had a situation so far that's been completely open. My colleague Peric mentions that these fees have varied but have not been prescribed, so the minimum fee is now the first time it has been prescribed, so far it has not been. The 50% increase is now prescribed for the first time. A ban on making a deal with a student within six months. After... For the same jobs is also now for the first time prescribed, these sanctions are subject to labour inspection, so it's all now the first time, it wasn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's something to point out here. So here only the level of standards and the rights of students rises compared to what has been so far. And I'm saying, as far as these jobs are concerned, we've already said that they're occasional and temporary, that that's what makes them different from work. I was very careful to use the student job or explain the distinction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97822	Thank you. Time's up, Agent Falcon. Replica response, MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97823	Well, here's fellow Sokol, as a student, I worked for 13 pounds an hour. And today it's going to be 21.5 kuna minimum so I'd say about these fuses and sanctions that exist, that they're neither the foundation of how we protect our students. The rights of theirs are definitely growing with this proposal, and we certainly have to notice it and welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97824	Representative Ivan Lovrinović has applied for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97825	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens who follow us, and I particularly welcome students if anyone succeeds from a book or from a job to follow this debate. We're discussing an important topic, so the Law on Student Affairs. And alone while I was studying, using student service, student contracts because I have to finance myself well, but immediately I want to emphasize, students jobs today and before today, are not only intended, of course they are intended and have to do students who cannot finance themselves, it is number one and it is known to everyone. But here I want to highlight another dimension, that it needs to be made possible and it is possible to work for all students who want to see what the world of work looks like, what it is to earn 100 kn, and so does their parents. So these occasional student jobs, student work, he just has this one, as he would say, creating a culture of work, a relationship to work, which means making money. Of course, there's a termological mess between work and work here, so he says I'm going to work. We can have a job there we come to not work, but I won't get into it because it's not the intention of this, but the law has to make it clear because really whoever does it was a student or a regular worker, if he's doing it, it's work, so it's not that we don't mix it up, but he's working on that job, so it's the same story. So, I want to stress here how important it is that a student who studies to work regardless, of course, of course, who has no money, he must work, but also one whose parents stand better. Why is it important for a student to work for them so that he can learn to build himself as a man and have a proper relationship with work, people who work and understand what it means to earn 100 kuna. I was recently in America, and even before I went to Western Europe wherever you come to America, restaurants, airports, these services you see a lot of students, from different colleges, schooling for different specialities, and that's exactly the reason, but unlike our ones, they're mass taking loans to be able to study, we're happy to study if the student is to study properly he's practically free. But what matters there is precisely the creation of a relationship to work and responsibility to work, as well as to your parents. But here I want to emphasise something particularly important, here are recognised tax reliefs for parents if their student has not exceeded the annual earnings of 15,000 kuna net, but if the amount of 15.000 kuna is exceeded then many, many parents have already received a call from the Tax Administration to come to pay a certain difference and they simply become shocked because there are cases that so many have to pay back or pay the IRS to ask their child why he went to work at all. Now you see, since I'm a university professor and I talk to students often, and they also convey the views of their parents, this limit of 15,000 kuna is simply too small, too low. Of course, here, the proposer's representative will say sorry, but why are you discussing this is a question of discussion for the Minister of Finance, or write an amendment or ask for an amendment to the Income Tax Act, because this simply covers, or in this case, the parents of the student. This is a really small tax limit and so a student would have to earn the most $1,250 per month to get to this 12 months times 1,250 is 15,000 kuna net. If you go over that, it's a problem, there's a second threshold of 60,000 kuna, but I don't even want to discuss it because he's turning a student practically into a permanent worker, so he's got a monthly salary of 5,000 kuna, but I don't want to discuss it at all. I suggest here while it's still time to run or why and here it's important to say it and you run it, because now you're in power so this is the ruling coalition, that this tax limit is raised to 30,000 kuna, 30,000 kuna, and it will certainly be welcomed by the students. Let's ask ourselves, what does a student mean to 1,250 kuna, please? So who calculated 1,250 kuna. What I suppose can have is lunch, dinner or something else, that others can't do anything, so they have big needs today, you see computers, phones, this, what, so I don't know who calculated 1,250 kuna to be the monthly limit. We're afraid, Malta doesn't turn out to be afraid of students who'll make 2,000-3,000 kuna a month. We know that these are occasional jobs to serve as help to study, but I think this is a completely wrong assessment and therefore I invite you to support on behalf of the party to change Croatia that students or their parents, that students can earn up to 30,000 kunas a year net and that this does not apply not to endanger, that they do not take tax relief for their parents. Furthermore, I would particularly like to emphasise, perhaps while we are still arguing that there is really a difference here between regular and extraordinary students because the issue or the status of extracurricular students over the past 10-20 years has simply not been such a one anymore, it has been questioned. You use the law simply the term student. Anyone who owns the index, who can be legitimateized as a student who has an index and if his student rights last, that's it. So, I don't understand regular extraordinary it's year after year as it goes by it's getting more and more lost, right. And in the end, I won't last any longer, because I would sum up, so this, this whole story, which is, which is also done in this law. I will first say that this, well that this law proposed in it has good, quality solutions he on one hand protects students in the event of not paying off his earnings, I believe that the commission of intermediaries is large but there is another thing here is not defined maximum number of hours which can work a student, i.e. is not a clear notion of overtime. Use this please, so there are good solutions we here as an opposition do not want at least in front of the party to change Croatia is not all bad there are good solutions, but please if the worker regularly has 160 hours monthly limit, then it is clear that there can be no more work, and if he does over 160 hours which looks clean, maybe one month behind, it can be the 7th, 8th month, when he is not studying, then to say over it you will pay 50% higher salary. And indeed, colleagues and colleagues from ruling are unclear. So that's where the students are cut off. He's supposed to get 50% higher pay, but the employer says, so I'd give you, but I don't know what limit. Well, come on, please respect this voice of reason. So don't go with John right now. You see, we're all arguing in the interests of students and it's quite logical and rational. Here, I welcome all the students once again, and I'm happy to be happy if this limit of 15,000,00 kn was a burden or after which tax reliefs are lifted for their parents if they increase to 30.000,00 kn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97826	Representative Tomislav Sokol is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97827	Thank you very much. First, my colleague Lovrinović, so it doesn't turn out like we're the only ones fighting in the Parliament. I really agree with you 99%. I'm particularly glad that you mentioned that it's not the same thing when you make some kind of money yourself and how you're more valuable to the way you've earned it and the way you pay for it... , than if you got something that seemed to be free. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, nothing's free, after all, tax bonds pay. I would also point out that, when we talk about study costs, they real cost studies, you know it best, are also in social sciences, especially STEM area much higher than that tuition that is charged. So, a real cost of study... Not five, six, seven, eight thousand kunas, but realistically maybe 30 to 40. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the same thing that needs to be pointed out and that shows the social dimension of this whole story. And as for these 15 grand in this tax package, now in income tax changes, scholarships are moving out of it. So scholarships will no longer enter those 15 grand and that's a step in the right direction, but I certainly think we should consider generalizing that limit as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97828	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97829	Look, I don't know what's in the new tax package even though it was the first debate. But aside from the scholarships to move away, I do appeal for all the students, their parents. My people, look to the land, we are a member of the EU. There were a lot of us, you in America, we see, so let's stimulate that student work. No one will get rich from him. But the students also have their own needs, and they can't have those $1.250,00 that someone will give them and you'll say, "We know exactly what you're doing, what you need, and you should have $1.250,00." And just to say, it is possible and there is this abuse of students, look at certain companies, someone here mentioned Croatian telecom and other telecom companies. There, mass students are hired to avoid the employment of workers indefinitely or to send workers to an existing pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97830	Thank you. Representative Stjepan Curaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97831	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, here is a colleague of Sokol who went in this direction more or less, in which I wanted to answer. Yes, absolutely, we can agree on the need to raise that threshold for entry or exit as a relief to any parent. We know, the kids are, the first child is 0.7, so it's 1.0, 1.4, etc. of the basic tax deduction is considered a relief and I think that there should actually be a demand for that amount in relation to those deductions if we see that 0.7 times 3 and 800 is somewhere around 22,000, so the other child, if there were an average one, I think there would be some amount of 25 thousand, which would be acceptable, because it can't happen that more these states admit or you less, than only a child earns, that there, somehow, it is evening. I think the Ministry has actually sent such a proposal to the Ministry of Finance, which is basically responsible for such issues, and I will support it absolutely when the income tax law comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97832	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97833	Dear colleague Curray, I'm glad if you'll support that, it's the students. So this isn't a party question. Of course, the question is, how is anyone going to ask? However, I say these 30,000 that I stand for in front of the party We change Croatia, it is important for students and I invite you all MPs to support it, to support it, because we really do not fear if the student earns 3,000 per month, and that his parents have to worry whether it will compromise his position or tax relief. It would be a constructive proposal, a good solution to the benefit of all students in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97834	Representative Domagoj Mikulic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97835	I thank you, Vice President. A colleague absolutely in the great majority agree with you. Students as their source of funding, except for the funds they get from their parents, use scholarships and jobs. The government of the Republic of Croatia has provided a significant number of scholarships, and Minister Maric, as far as I am aware of in his bill, has already put this exemption from the limit, which you were talking about, which was certainly necessary, which is commendable. And as for the 15 thousand kuna limit itself, I also agree with you that it could be significantly larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97836	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97837	Besides scholarships, you've read the cases of our top athletes who won some awards in a row. Look, the kid gets you as a student, wins some prize, and he's rebuffed about it if he gets 5 grand or 10 grand. It's not a million-dollar reward and it's getting into him, so... Well, it's not that, so let's not confuse my people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, we want to encourage excellence, students to play sports, to promote our homeland, and on the other hand you see things, which we say, we trip and they add up to what we need. But I'm glad there's one mood here, so let's see if this one keeps going. I call you once again, especially you who are in the ruling coalition, have a formal majority to support these good demands because you see that the opposition can also think, so we know how to make good suggestions because there are good and bad ones here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97838	Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović and this law have good things, of course, I'll talk about it too. And in the opposition, he constantly shifts that we are unconstructively critical. But it's interesting that this law has been in the process since it started working in the task force for almost 2 years and 10 meters. The crown of this work should be this debate, so where is the job of the opposition to point to some problems. Why? Not because the rulings look bad, but because we have a good law. But you're saying, overtime, it's great that it's well paid. But when we have no regulation on how regular it is, let's say one of the burning problems, there are no problems solved, which is why the students actually rebelled in 2017. Some have, but most of the core has not been solved. So aren't we constructive opposition if we warn of such things?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97840	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97841	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I listened carefully to the debate today on the position and opposition. When we talk about opposition MPs, there have indeed been very high-quality debates, if they can somehow sum up good smart, concrete proposal, one of them is just defined working time, normal, normal, to know on this basis what overtime is. If you do not define the threshold in the law, monthly, maximum student work, then know that you are going directly against them, because then the employer will not be able to, many of them will be happy to account for 50% of the larger daily, the larger hour. I ask you before the opposition, that this logical proposal, you adopt it to equalize it with the maximum work of workers per month, and all over that, even in my opinion should be less, because it is a student, and that it must be paid more, if we wish... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97842	Thank you. Representative Stjepan Curaj has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97843	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I won't say it too much, but there are some things that are going through the debates that I want to clarify, and especially some prominent ones. As regards the conditions for the performance of the business, when I speak of art. 7. well when we talk about accommodation facilities, I would, or, accommodation units, where it is prescribed, as a minimum of 12% built and put into operation, compared to the total number of regular students. I would like to see perhaps that there may be a proposal with its own amendment, up to the amount that has already been fulfilled, that is, from 100%. In translation means if we have 1;1 somewhere then this article, I don't know if you're ever going to show up in practice, in reality, but if we have 1200 students and we already have 1200 installed capacities, then there's no need to prescribe another 12% when we know that at the same ratio, I don't know if it's possible to happen or not, but why not predict it. The same goes for nutrition, 5% of the following places in the diet, of course, unless, for those objects that carry out their activities, when we count the next place compared to the number of students, we already get to 100%, then actually, the condition would be suspended, if that's even possible to formulate. I don't know, I'm afraid we're losing the number of students or not, but there may be a situation like this. Furthermore, as regards the conditions for doing student work, by students, there is certainly a need to welcome some of the measures that will actually take effect with this law, which is above all, that the student must have a minimum of 1 ECTS point. Because we are also when we say that a student can't work through a student, if he's enrolled in three colleges where he's still,... was only in the first year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What it means in translation means is that it can be entered regularly, that it can work and exercise student rights and work through a student service, the conditions are not met, the second college is enrolled regularly, again, and so until 26, 27 years old, as long as these countries can ensure the right of regular study, i.e., as far as it can be. This law states that the one who has changed the student programme twice, third time enrolls the second year of the same year has no right and that is what is safe to praise. Furthermore, as regards the contract on the performance of student work, it is certainly necessary to welcome the introduction of the electronic form of the contract itself with electronic signature. Today we have had court fees, where also a kind of digitisation comes and let's say, a little by little it happens, so that contract is valid, not only if it's physical paper, but if it's also electronic form on that prescribed and form with electronic we sign that it's worth it, and that's certainly one step in this portfolio, which is what it is. Also, that the contract can be concluded for a period of more than a month, because we know that the contract should go from month to month, up to 45 days, depending on the nature of the job. So, given the expected and surveillance, that's something that's well antiquated. The good news of Article 11(3) is that, according to the contractor and the contracting authority, after the job has been done, under the contract previously signed, the declaration confirming the final number of hours or days of the operation. Which means translation. So far we've had a situation to take a student contract, sign it, and take it to the employer and never see it again. He doesn't see what's written in there, because simply the employer can actually believe it to the middleman or the student center, on which he makes payments and the student no longer sees what's exactly written, which is the price of work, whatever it is, he can only trust, actually, to give Bianca signatures to contracts, because so far it has been, because it can be understood at what time the contract applies, it's not a problem, but the exact number of hours done can't be put on, because it's an occasional job and can't be negotiated in such a way. That's how it's been so far. Here with this statement the contractor himself sees exactly what and how his employer evaluated, i.e. a student, an extraordinary or a regular one. There's no after he's got it, so he's going to count, is it more hours, less hours or now he's already, what would you say to me in the people past the grandmother with the cookies and then most often there's a situation eaten by the donkey wolf, come on as he'll be back on some next contract or something, some dispute that he can find, so there's another absolutely going for the student's benefit. Also, we talked earlier about a minimum fee for doing student jobs, as regards minimum gross wages, divided into 160, I think that this raises the cost of the work of students who will automatically, I will not agree, has an impact on the labour market, because it only collects student work that becomes perhaps less attractive or pulls back the collection and work regularly through the contract, especially when we talk about accessories that are registered for 50% for work, nights, weekends, national holidays, etc., on Sundays etc., and overtime work. Why? As my colleague Mrsic says, if this more expensive worker is through a student and his own employee is cheaper, then it will either increase the salary of a regular worker or employ them more. That can't be bad. Also, we knew in what conditions students worked, that it was many times exploiting and precisely using these holes in the labour market. When we speak here as prescribed by law, the performer also has the right to compensate for travel expenses, compensation for a warm meal and other fees if they are agreed, what we have said in the replica. So it's prescribed by law. Why does it matter now? We had the rule, we'll have it now. The rule can regulate overtime. But the law gives you grounds for inspection. And the ministry is being conducted... As regards the matters of negotiation or work, with this law, this is subject to, as is the end line and indicated, and to controls in the fields of labour, taxes, cuts, contributions, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this law everyone who works... They're subject to it, and then they're going to introduce quite a order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they have to have a contract and stick to the law and then, of course, the rule can be arranged and what we actually had so far is regulated. And that's what I think is now the same big step that we did then, of course not speak now and I'm not repeating everything that means to extraordinary students and one thesis that I've never been able to catch, so we have a working experience and a job internship, that's two separate concepts. Today in Croatia you get confirmation of the employer that is worthy of you and guarantees that you have a working experience, that is a broader term, a working internship is a narrow term. Worktime means pension payments. And there comes that crucial distinction. It's no problem working experience, anyone who's worked through a student's study, can sign it up to CV and can get confirmation and may have this work experience where work experience is sought. But if you're looking for a job internship, then it's totally different. So, here there's no logic to the fact that there's something prescribed here in relation to the work experience when experience only implies it, it's a broader term, everyone who's worked through a student's office, has this acquired work experience over these jobs, the employer gives him confirmation and that's all they need and it can be obtained today, it doesn't need to be specifically prescribed, it's not like anyone said it wasn't there or that it doesn't. Working hours is something else. That's when you have to go to retirement, get confirmation to compete mostly for places where the minimum working time is prescribed if you're working in state local self-government, year, year 5. etc., etc. That's different. And experience, whether the private sector appreciates experience or internship more, I think it's an experience but unfortunately, somewhere else, it always says, in our country is always the most desirable employer, there's always an internship and there's always paper and not quality. So, no matter what you have, you have a high direction, you have paper, you've been the worst student, you've been 10 years in college, I don't know what college you've studied at, you've got it, and there's no difference between you and any other candidate based on your acquired education. If it'll ever be possible in the state system, I don't know, in America it's very nicely done, in America and today Malta you don't have to with college, you get a degree and with that degree,... When he sees where you are, what you are, no one will, because it's appreciated in the labour market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when colleges start thinking that way, then that way we'll have different things, too, but again, the biggest problem is that the country is always the most desirable employer, and it can't be discriminated against, and it's just got to be a general condition that, possibly some of the further tests that I've suggested here when it comes to centrally, when they're unique. So I think absolutely this is one more time you'd just be begging in this article to see if you can put it, I don't think it's, it might not even mean something but, well, something pro futuro might happen. I'm saying, this isn't creating a cheaper workforce than it is because I remember when I was a student, my working captain was 10 kn. 10 kn was an hour's work through a student's where I used to be a part-time job, literally part-time jobs, not even so much out of necessity as I wanted to gain and experience and, of course, improve my student budget. Today it's 15, 17 kn about, with this going to be 20, depending on where it is, here's thank you and I think this is an absolute step in the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97844	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97845	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, in your debate you have pointed out many things but I am interested in considering the liberal omen of your party, can you estimate that it would not be a bad thing if the law regarding the middleman were liberalized so much that we allowed all the universities without these restrictions on accommodation and nutrition to do indirect work? Because if we let them work with students, educate them, make education contracts with them, which is why they couldn't use it and create an opportunity to intervene on the labour market. Here's something I'm interested in because this way we're going to meet those who are doing it right now, that's most of the universities that have regulated things in this way, and it might be possible and it might open up jobs for students to do it as many of those who have these words, contracted relationships, or in this case, learn and educate students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97846	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97847	Thank you. A fellow Maras, so this actually introduces this possibility of performing only now can we interpret whether it is more restrictive or not, whether these conditions that are prescribed here and I believe and want to believe that they are actually going in the favourite of the student himself to ensure clearly and transparently, unequivocally. Because imagine a situation where someone starts a j.d.o., registers under some liberal conditions for mediation issues oxy contracts as... And he doesn't pay off his student. He spends his money and goes bankrupt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's gonna stand behind him? Again, the state, we're creating an unnecessary problem. So we need to think a little bit about more restrictive conditions that need to be clear and responsible because some things really don't take too much.../incomprehensible/... we know where this has led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97848	Ante Bačić's representative called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97849	Thank you, Vice President and colleague Curaj, for mentioning this famous ANCTS related to defining the conditions for general assembly i.e. for the possibility of using a student service. It should be pointed out that it is good to introduce this entry for the second time in the first year of studies in terms of students who were missing during enrolment and tried to achieve their studies at another study next year. But I think that we should also point out that we need to finish this fama that's being placed, which is to enroll colleges exclusively for the rights of student service now in the Bologna process where most regular students are 8 hours busy with their class, we see how much tuition they are, no one enrolls more college just to use the right to a student contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97850	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97851	I thank you, in fact, that and I think that this law that we have allowed to enter the market of student studies for extraordinary students this will become less and interesting and this way of abuse will actually lose its own meaning which, and that is one reason, we have heard various figures here so maybe it's about 30,000 students, not those who want to work, so that now they will be taken away by percentage, but just those who want to study by force couldn't regularly, but exceptionally and want to work occasionally to give them equal rights as other regular students. They do not want to go to 8 hours of work and sign a contract on work, there are those who want, absolutely yes, but with this we have allowed them and respected that they are studying as everyone else, of course paying for their studies, but that they can also finance with occasional jobs to earn as well as any regular students and thus reduce this abuse of enrolment to obtain their own rights because it was one of the basic reasons as well as the student diet itself why it was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97852	Representative Sabina Vosovac has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will just repeat it once again once again means that I am personally pleased to define through this law finally after a second year one decent minimum fee of student work, i.e. student jobs that we set up fuses that no longer happen and cannot happen and go unpunished by that employer who does not meet that condition or does not pay the minimum prescribed fee, and even worse will be the one who dares not pay anything or pay the students the job done. Thirdly, I think it is also good that the better the work will be recorded, the better the competences of the employees, the employer, the performer, or the students, as well as the mediators that are the student centres. It is also good that it is given the authority to inspect the work that can finally control this segment of very often abused part of student work, very often for third parties means fictitious bargaining through student work where only the cover between the two parties that we know for a particular commission were 10% given their name, the last name of their student contract so that employers would pay some other workers but not by the basis of the Labour Act, meeting their terms of the Labour Law, but through students and student work. I think that, I hope that by passing this law, we will reduce certain injustices that have prevailed on this market, but I will now repeat some objections and needs for changes and improvements in this law itself. We have in the debate in the first reading here had the opportunity to actually hear that we have this problem of disrupted definitions of extraordinary students, it should actually be a category of students who are fully independent of work, but also consume certain contracts of work, but with their job they want to acquire higher education qualifications. However, in Croatia for a long time, such a definition of an extraordinary student has simply not been valid, it does not exist. We have excellent students and unfortunately that category of people who have failed to enroll a regular study because of the limited number of places, due to the unsatisfactory results in previous education, we have managed to enroll exceptional students in high schools who simply do not offer these programmes in the regular program but only extraordinary programs. So the difference is that the diapazon of people and the pattern is actually the structure of extraordinary students that I'm going to repeat, I said it on behalf of the club, cry out, cry out for a new definition of extraordinary students not this law but in lex specialis, which is the Law on scientific activity and higher education. We also saw in the debate in the first reading that students in Croatia are an extremely vulnerable group. That 80% of their cost of study is borne by parents, that access to education is six times higher if you come from a family of higher socioeconomic status, if you come from a poor family six times less likely to have the opportunity to get a high qualification at all, and therefore you reduce your chances of being an active participant of the labour market tomorrow, an independent person who can create his life, his family, take care of himself, and contribute to a good feeling in the society he contributes to, among other things, because man is a mental being, man is a mental being, but man is also a person who is entrenched in some way by work. We also saw that in this market, or we had information, a huge amount of money turned, a billion kunas passed over the back of students annually and through student work. Five million is some amount that will now be made available to this law additionally for investment in the student standard, what we have said that will be paid by students, so students will pay 12% of the fees to student centres and 0.5% of the additional commission that will then be allocated through commissions to some programs that should make them rich in that kind of life outside of the study and outside of the world, the world of work. And we also saw that we have different categories, we have regular students, when we talk about this labour market, which so far could work through student contracts, we have extraordinary students, where 27000 of them work, so they have contracts on a certain or indefinite time, and we have this one category of 16000 that don't work anywhere. And now we allow them to work through student contracts. And I'm stressing again here that it's not good that we're doing the difference between, not only workers and students, but in the price of work, in some protection of rights, but also in the fact that it's not good that we're going to get into a situation where we have two extraordinary students, one is currently in a working relationship and it belongs to this category of 27000 who are working, and its labour price is, say, 40 kuna, at a workplace where, and his colleague is also an extraordinary student, who is going to get the opportunity through this Law, to work through the Student Center or through a student contract, he's going to be 21.64 kuna, and they're both extraordinary students, doing the same job and it's not normal. How can we prevent that? We've created a tectonic disturbance on the labour market, this is what we're going to do, with the best intention we're going to do. I don't know, we're proposing an amendment to determine, that a student, in order to rule out that difference between students and workers for the same range of jobs, for the same job, pay, prescribe a minimum rate that must be 65% of the labour price and then delete the limit between workers and students, and any kind of student, other than this, of course, which is in a working relationship, is defined or undefined, is an extraordinary student but we're reducing that limit, it won't be as big as we leave here, we leave space. We also insist that student work is entered into work, work experience, and we also insist that you prescribe that it cannot be employed by means of a student contract to a job that, where it is, where the need for a job has occurred, if a job contract has been cancelled in 6 months, but not only by business conditions but by all cancellations, so as not to manipulate the way in which we get rid of our older workers in a way that we negotiate with them some kind of break-up of working relationships that are not business-conditional cancellations and that we bring students who will in some way be a cheap workforce to their place. And we're looking in some way to ensure equal conditions, when we're talking about meeting the Law on Working in Violations, students, students, students in the same way, that there are no big differences, to determine that they have to be transported, right to a free meal, students, the same as the workers, but not only if it's agreed by a student contract, but if in that company they have to have workers, that they have to have students. So our amendments don't go in the direction of challenging this Law, but they go in the direction of empowering student work, but also correcting certain injustices, which in the best sense perhaps you wanted to define certain things and you made a gap which says a gap between certain categories and it's not right. Think equally and so, and if this is not this bill that really raises or lifts the relief for parents who are 15000 kunas, it's really low, it's not the subject of this Law, but think about it, and I haven't had a chance to talk here, and I really wanted to give it more time, the role of student centres today and how we see them tomorrow, I don't think we've been going through enough reform here, and what I'm interested in is only in transitional and final provisions, why you're giving the existing student centres 5 years of time to comply with the prescribed conditions that are prescribed for the provision of employment mediation, which is 5 years, which is why 5 years, I've little remains unclear, in the transitional and final provisions of Article 18, existing. So those who now take the part must meet all conditions immediately and those who already are in the system you give them as much as 5 years. Isn't that a little too much?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97854	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97855	Thank you very much, colleague Sabina Voter. I will re-absorb one thing that I think is not done enough by this law, and it is about that, and it is about to enable students to offer as many jobs and transparency as possible and allow them to invest in the work I would say, information about what they can do. We're pretty tight around here with some things that really don't make sense to me. For this reason someone would have to have 1500 seats in Zagreb where they provide student nutrition services in order to deal with student employment interventions. That's what I'm going to say in my debate. I really don't get it. If we have companies dealing with the team for employees, if we have other companies that do so on the market, which is why it is thus cemented that the only Student Centre in the City of Zagreb can be dealt with, here is thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97856	The reply to the replica of the representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97857	I don't know, colleague Maras, why these conditions are prescribed just as much as I don't know why you gave yourself a five-year deadline to comply with some standard that we prescribe the law. I don't know. I don't even know the concept of how the state sees the development of student centres as an intermediary in employment in the future. Because there's a lot of injustice. You now have no idea one say student centre in Zagreb, he cares de facto, he takes money from in some way all students who pass through it but his governing body does not have representatives of all, as I would say to all universities, higher universities from which these students come and do not have the right to deploy commissions, let's say to the standard of their students. Should we set ourselves up for a regional centre that will take care of, gather representatives of all and take care of all students in the area or allow each higher education institution to have its own. There's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97858	Thank you. Your time is up. Ante Bačić's representative called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97859	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned the student centres and the intervention and the future of those with me, I hope that's not going in the direction that we're going to give everyone to deal with student affairs now, so we're going to put them on the market and we're going to privatize them tomorrow. I hope you didn't think that way. And I don't know why you're hurting these 0.5%. 0.5% must be stressed by employers. Those 0.5% student representatives and the student assembly will know best how and on what projects to use. And as far as I'm concerned, all 12% and everything that comes from student service. The student centre of student intervention should go and must go to the development of the student standard whether it is building new homes, cafeterias, food. So let's not go to pay, let's not go to any other expense, let's just go to the development of student standards, and that'll go to this 0.5% by students and their projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97860	Thank you. Representative Voter, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97861	I'm sorry, I didn't hear your first comment here, the first part of the replica, I heard why it hurts these 0.5%. I don't give a shit about 0.5%. We give 5 million kunas de facto into the hands of the student choir to deploy funds in favour of all students to sports, cultural and other facilities that need to enrich some kind of offer in theirs, in theirs we call it life. But what I would not like to see happen to us is, as in 2018, when, so the student assembly each year allocates fewer amounts of funds and in 2018 they allocated funds to their former president of the student assembly for his private project. And now that you ask them, they will say that he has satisfied the terms, because they prescribe these terms, they have given him him. Now I'm asking you. Do you think these funds have gone to the right hands of the former president of the student assembly? Why? Why do you do it that way? Why? My hand is washing. The funds should be allocated to all students, not to those who are closer to the altar, who hears the Mass better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97862	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Alfirev reported on the replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97863	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of the Voice. In your presentation you are quite now, at first apostrophe of the status of an extraordinary student and in fact a definition that does not correspond to what an extraordinary student today is and which is why he is even in the status of an extraordinary student. In my view, therefore, I am this law, so the student work itself will not contribute to changing things where they need to be changed. Don't you think that there should be done not in this law but really somewhere else you should make not only a change of definition but things so that they don't happen anymore or further deepen this which is why we have this flood of extraordinary students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97864	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97865	And exactly, fellow Members, this law is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. So he must respond to the new reality and the new reality in Croatia is that an extraordinary student is not the one who works and wants to provide himself with a higher education but an outstanding student who studies, does not have a very often job, has no student rights because he is an outstanding student and has to pay the tuition itself. OK, so it's kind of like you have 17 thousand people who are lost souls, which are a category of extraordinary students who aren't really, who don't, whose parents pay for studies, who don't have ixies, who don't have the right to eat, who don't have the right to a home, they're left to themselves. And we left them... Because we treat them like extraordinary students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, through this law, we give them the opportunity to at least work through a student center which they've never been able to do before. But I'm saying it interferes with some of the relationships on the labour market. Seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97866	Representative Voter, time's up. Representative Sokol has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97867	Thank you very much. First of all, as far as 15 thousand kuna and scholarships are concerned, so we had in our first reading a package of tax laws, one of them was a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, where clearly scholarships were excluded from those 15 thousand and are not accounted for. So we had this in this House, we need to read the materials we get. As for the conditions prescribed by intermediaries etc., the idea is to invest funds from student businesses in accommodation, nutrition and cultural activities, which is their job. That's exactly why those provisions are in there. As regards the method of distribution, meaning Article 14, paragraph 5, here for those 0.5%, the intermediary is obliged to publish the criteria and the procedure for selecting the activities referred to in paragraph 3 of this article, so it is the intermediary who determines the criteria and procedures, not the student assembly, please read.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97868	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97869	In that body that deploys funds, you know very well that the student choir has a majority. That's the first thing, and don't act silly and have it. Secondly, how transparently the funds will be deployed, were alive and seen by reports that hopefully will arrive at the ministry. And thirdly, 15 thousand kuna a year is the maximum you can earn as a student to be a tax relief to your parent. And now you're boasting that you took out your scholarships from that $15,000 yesterday because you didn't even give it to me. So he's just out of a poor family and he's been receiving a social scholarship, you'd have already taken him off his tax breaks because his scholarship would have been 15 grand, and now you're making it right and you say, that 15, 000 kn doesn't go into scholarships anymore, but that's not enough. It's embarrassing still, that means he can only make 1000 and how much 200 kn per month to be a tax relief to his parent. And you're still boasting about letting him make 1200 because you're not counting his scholarship because it would immediately eliminate him as a tax relief. Our intensity is that you increase this 15 000 kn limit because it's too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97870	Thank you. Time's up. A representative of Maras has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law, we regulate one area that is very important, we've all worked in our lives, or those who have studied, and now the MPs have probably worked during their student days, to increase their allowance, to buy something, to pay the sea or whatever it takes, and we're aware of how important this is. In those times, though, you don't think as much as you don't care how you do it because it's important to make that few grand to go to sea, you bought something or something. And I remember that those captains back then and I see that even now they weren't God-knowing what, on that side I support that it rises or that it limits the minimum amount but I don't think that this is the spectacular amount that's listed here in the law, that 20, 21 kn per hour doesn't mean too much, we could be there a little bit I would say, more on the side of the students, put it maybe on 25 kn, that there are no jobs that are to say, heavy, physical, and that at the end people have very low fees. What bothered me, and this already pointed out in a few of these replicas, is, of course, related to the fee said by the law, it is the one who collects it or who owns it in employment, that this fee is used for both accommodation and food and everything else it invests in the quality of the life of students, for example, if it is the city of Zagreb, but the fact is that when you look at the little income and expenditure structure, here for last year is 30 million kn in plus, and the total fees provided by the service is there somewhere. So it's in practice, Mrs. Ramljak, irreconcilable. What it says in the law is unrelated to what it says in the financial SC reports in Zagreb. In other words, the 30 or how many million kunas they're coming in for these commissions, you can't connect at all but in general. Yes, it is spent more on employees, something is invested in beds, in nutrition, but to find a direct link connected between these 30 million kn and the quality of the students and their lives in Zagreb, you can't find it especially because 30 million kn is extra, so on this side SC could invest another 30 million kn and would again be zero with 2017 business and quality would be even higher. So it's a story that only allows the SC, for example, in the city of Zagreb to do that service because the only ones who have these capacities and I think it wasn't too bad to provide if there was already a possibility of a university, to provide them with it. There are universities that have several thousand students, there are universities that have very high-quality connections with employers, and maybe you could give them better jobs that SC now offers because what I saw at the time, and I don't see that much has changed since then, and SC is developing something special, and there's nothing concrete about the availability of these jobs to make an application so that people see it, so it doesn't invest at all, it's taken for granted. We can only ourselves, and when we can only be ourselves, then there's no need to adapt it to the needs of students or the market, and that's why I'm against it to remain this kind of provision that discriminates against having 4, 5, you could find some provision that would allow at least 10 to come forward so that they can compete a little bit, try to popularize it, maybe compete with whatever contracts they have with companies, pay more, and then the students would watch who they go to get a job so that as soon as there's no competition, the apriori can be seen that they don't invest in, and this link like them will buy some equipment or equip some SC, believe me, there's almost nothing. Of course, this part of what Mrs. Glasovac is well noticed is 0.5%, essentially intended and I recognize the emotional involvability of some HDZ representatives who, when their eyes were out when they saw it was going to be one half percent and said, that's 5.6 million for SC and there all our young guys as we were a few years ago and then we'll spin which project, etc. I agree that it should be singled out for student associations, but that scene should also be tried to promote and popularise people to be stimulated, to compete in these elections, to see how they can reach these funds, not to give three people, and we know how these things work because everyone in Croatia sees how parallelly through various institutions behave in power and even when you're not in power, no, from intelligence services, police, HDZ has sung it in the 1990s and they just don't let the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Student Assembly as a rule. So, of course, the Croatian Football Federation where here goes a very large depolitisation, so Shuker will probably replace our colleague here from the Croatian Parliament. So these are these models, so here's this one through the student choir that the HDZ wants to influence in every single bit of our society and people are just sick of it. Try to find a way Mrs. Secretary of State how to popularise at the university that people are involved, and not that a few of them always spin one and the same when they finish college after 10 years then some new ones come out of the youth of one party and continue to work as they did before them. So that's what I hear as objections, I don't hear that there's a very great interest in government among students to get involved in, and that's what I recognize as a problem, and I'd like to do in every job, and that's how we have as much competition as possible so that eventually our students can benefit from 160 thousand almost in Croatia who do jobs and save individual activities. Because now that young people are rushing out of Croatia, unfortunately Germany, Ireland, and we will have almost more Croats there than in some cities, so I think it is useful to allow people to work here to try out in a way that they might in this way and stay in the Republic of Croatia. People don't leave Croatia because they're fine here. They do not leave Croatia because they see here that they have the same chances as they have in some other countries that they are all equal, that they promote society that will be just, but they see society where it is most normal for a man to walk around and buy politically traded parliamentary representatives, city representatives, councillors that is the most normal thing in the Republic of Croatia and HDZ, obviously it suits him. I was just saying something about it today tolerating. So it rejuvenates our democracy, our society that it is no wonder that planes for Ireland are being loaded and that people are being disgusted when they see how Croatian politics works. It is not because of us in the opposition, but because of those who, unfortunately, manage Croatia, pretend to be nice, smooth European politicians. And until these European politicians realize that they are doing damage to their society and while neglecting their selfish goals and trying to do something for the citizens of our country, there will be no law that will help us, so neither will this student employment thing where I will also join my fellow Glasovac and be restrained because I think it could have been done more. In addition to raising a minimum captainate, it could be liberalized, allowing students to have a bigger choice of jobs than they have today, to make the captains more and to somehow earn a kuna for what they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97872	Thank you. Representative Hajdukovic reported to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm glad you're the principles of this topic, which is funding student centres. If you look at a little of their balance sheet, I think they're telling you enough, and especially the fact that sometimes the means of purpose, and the fees from the employment interventions are intended, are not used for the purposes for which they are intended. So no standard rises nor the quality that student centres receive. You were also the first to say in the saying here that the leading people from the student choirs are somewhere in the university, the university of the component of the university, etc. highly prominent members of the youth of certain parties. Now you tell me how it can be a depolitical structure that represents all students and the entire student population, especially if we consider very little turnout in student elections and that actually one interested group draws out their friends who vote for them and then the circle continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97874	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97875	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, it's as clear as day. And now some may smile and say, so what they say, who is to blame for not organising them in colleges. See, that's what members of the HDZ youth on the left say, and they're happy as long as there's nobody we're in charge and on the other hand, but the point is that it's basically not the right approach to recruiting their resources to bring people there and then that rabbit two of what he got from the student association used for his projects. Look at how it works out there. Yes, they also have associations that are certain worldview but no parties are in this way like in Croatia or parties because they are not more than one party because they are not done and abuses the system through student centres and through the ministry, and they are involved in student life in this way. It doesn't exist anywhere except in Croatia, and that's why our people go to Ireland and don't stay dependent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97876	Thank you. ... A representative of the Vesligai responded to the replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97877	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's fellow Maras well mentioned in fact one problem of general student participation, the percentages of the election for student representatives are really miserable and it's one real defeat of this society when we see that young people who are supposed to be pillars of this society tomorrow, who should be wearing this country already in their young years, realize that unfortunately, party oligarchies are so occupied by universities and that even at the university they can't change anything. I think we should all discuss here a little bit about this model that we have because unfortunately the student choir is not a representative of students, but what I repeat once again is turned into one party oligarchy and it is a very bad message for all young people, for all students at Croatian universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97878	The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97879	Please, fellow Vesligai, not oligarchy, but oligarchy. So there's only one party that abuses both state institutions and ministries, SC, and that's how it promotes what you said and that's why people don't come out. Instead of having the ministry deal with promoting this at the university, they are in the interest of getting as few people out as possible because then 5 or 20 of them will choose the ones they need. At the University of Zagreb in 2017, 15% of students attended the elections. That's enough talking, gentlemen, about how the ones who are there are doing. If people don't come out, they don't care about these organizations, then they see no purpose. If they were doing something useful for students, they'd probably have more turnout than they are now, and that's enough signal to know what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97880	Representative Maras, thank you. An representative of Ante Bacic reported for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97881	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a colleague. Here is already a few hours of debate on a new law regarding the performance of student affairs, and we have heard a lot of the thesis, and ultimately we have left out all this good that is passed by this law, all of this positively, this regulation of the particularly student affairs of the students themselves during employment, and we have caught only who is a student, who is a student, what is a work, what is a student business, a distinction between that and here, we have now and in the finale of this debate and the Student Assembly, are they legitimate representatives of students, in which they are foreigners and how they spend money. I don't think that's a good way to go, and I think both numbers and statistics show different thesis and refut all of this that the opposition imposes on the debate on this law. When we look at the Bologna process itself and the burden of students who are 8 hours a day, there is not much room for student work and therefore student work is temporary and occasional. There's been a lot of familiarity about and this overtime and about 50% of the charge. The student work is intense, so these very temporary, occasional jobs can last a few days or a few weeks, they have features and contracts of work, so something has to be done through a certain period of time but is provided to students on their request, that they assess how much time they will do it themselves. If we look at SC's data, especially here, I'll take it out here if I read the data from SC Split first. We see that all these weights and equalitys of workers, students, whether cheap power or not. If the students are going to take on the role of workers tomorrow, it all falls into the water. Why? 70% of students who use student service, who do student work, do maximum 4 months. in the year. Only 15% of students work more than six months. in the year and 99% of students work for only one month with the same employer. She's the thesis that now a student will replace a worker with an employer with this drop in water, so almost 100% of the students work for only a month with the same employer. Only 12% of the students remained with the same employer for more than 3 months, so we have to take the dysstance of both employees and student temporary and occasional work. So that's two different jobs. Somewhere I can match up, it's true, but all of these thesis that we have to make a distinction now and in law change for extraordinary students who are already working and these 15, 16 000 extraordinary students who don't work, that's not true, and that definitely doesn't need to. So we have to do a distinction between employees and students who perform temporary and occasional certain student work. This guy that colleges are going to be enrolling especially now just to get...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97882	Excuse me, Agent Maras asked if you could speak a little louder because he can't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97883	Thank you, so he could tell me directly from the bench, can, colleague Maras, no problem at all, we in... be loud. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for conditions in the very enrollment of new academic years in Bologna, so rarely anyone who enters the university and no longer stands that fama from 10 to 15 years ago that someone enters the university exclusively to use a student service or to work on black through someone and thus earn some money. We need to be aware that there have been major malversions and major problems with working on black especially emergency students, which with this law and we are trying and we think that we will manage to regulate, in a way, because we will see by next year that there will not be any excessive income from the introduction of this law, that everything will remain about this level, precisely because all of these malversions and all of this use of student contracts for perhaps different purposes, which will now be legal and orderly and walkways will probably remain the same. I am pleased to accept that between two readings and my proposal, my club's proposal but also my colleague from the Student Assembly, which is related to this one ECTS point, i.e. to allow students who entered a certain study program but after a certain time realized that the study program was not for them and waited next year to enroll others, well that in this way we would continue to include them and that they would be able to use the services of the Student Service but we must return to the statistics normally. Most of the jobs performed through a student service, during the summer period when the break between the exam deadlines and the new academic year is. We've seen months where students work, how much they work. They are not now and will never be replaced by a classic worker for a labor contract and for an employee. We have to point out, we have already talked about digitisation and the electronic form of the contract, which will bring a lot of quality and economics and I save it to student centres as well as students. It is important to stress in this thesis that the student will replace the worker, precisely this provision regarding the business conditioned resignation when the employer will not be able to conclude the following 6 months with any student contract and accept the student on the same job as the worker who got fired. And we must mention that this law goes together in a package with a continuation of tax reform where this Government amending the income law allowed the awards and scholarships and all forms of improvement and foreign and domestic not to enter those 15 thousand kunas where students and students with relief parents must be removed. And we talked a lot here that it turns out that students can make money to keep 1250 kunas a month. That's true, it's standing now. But when we count that with this work that will be occasional and temporary they will also have more time to study but we have not counted a certain reward or scholarship, certain municipalities, cities or states that a parallel student can receive. And then we come up with an amount that could be two and more thousand kunas. But if we're going to increase that censorship, I'm first, I'm first for it. The big fama government and around this mediation fee and around this 12%. Here's a colleague, Maras, in his presentation, often referred to it. I urge him to read Article 14 concerning the revenue from mediation to see what the commission must look like to decide where these money will go to look at what the student centres can spend that money on, to look at who they are, who they are, who they are, who is the ministry and that these funds will be spent on purpose and that they will be published. Just read these few articles, i.e. Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure, and I think you'll understand. As for members of the student assembly, why there's a small turnout in the student election, so little turnout is precisely for your story. Because it is not good to participate in the student assembly, that they are called for the sake of thousands of other factors that do not affect them, normally to discourage young people from being involved in any kind of social activity, including the student choir, tomorrow and politics. Why not? Why is the constant thesis of a fellow SDP student assembly is a platform for HDZ youth. Now let's look at the composition of the Croatian Student Assembly, let's look at the presidents of all choirs of the University of Croatia, find me one from the youth of HDZ. Here, you can Google right now. I wish there were more but here's the moment you find me one that's there. There isn't. So your thesis, it's the only thing that scares young people with some kind of bogeyman and some kind of springs, etc., but that doesn't stand for what you're saying. And that's why it's simply a small turnout for such a hollow and stupid story. And this way I'm definitely inviting all students to engage, to activate and beat the demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97884	Thank you, too. We have two replicas but before we greet teachers and students and students IV. Zagreb High School, there's more of us with them today, right? It's nice to have you here. And now Mr. Maras will perform. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, Bačić, I'm sorry, I'm sorry that you have such a low opinion of HDZ's rejuvenation when you say that young people are scared, they don't want to participate in the student assembly because I said they usually come from HDZ, from the youth of the party. Well, don't be so skeptical, so you guys aren't so bad that people are afraid to come to college meetings. So what you've explained essentially shows that you actually consider us responsible by appealing to depolitize the student choir to get as many people involved as possible. That's why they don't come. So, it's not a bogeyman's question, but you did it in the '90s when it started and you haven't let it go since then, it's like that from generation to generation. And Mr. Vice President, I beg you, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] I'm asking you one more thing, you've got your own special style but this isn't where it comes in. [[Intruder Radin: Reply Mr. Bačić...]] It does not appear here but is spoken here, so do not you contribute to the estradisation of the Parliament but try to be please try to be as correct as possible towards the MPs. [[Intruder Radin: No, I have no personal style but I defend the Rules of Procedure.]] So there's no need for doascalia and certain descriptions of who's doing what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97886	Thank you very much, thank you very much, since you haven't stopped, you have your first warning. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97887	And when will you remind yourself, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97888	Ruler's injury here you go. I'm going to myself,... [[/Intruder Maras: When will you remind yourself?]] You can, you can sit down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97889	And you're gonna tell me to sit down?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97890	... What article? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97891	... It blocks the assembly and points you to and explains how you need to be ambushed. [[Specially enabled.]] And here's a minute and 30 talking and not giving anyone here access. I can't answer the line, nor can you shut him up. I don't understand how that behaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97892	Okay. Thank you very much, I gave him one warning, now that I'm giving him another warning, I wouldn't have the pleasure of listening to him anymore, so then I won't give him another warning. ... Who knows? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr Mikulić And the answer? [[/Intruder: How 'bout an answer?]] And this was, okay, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97893	My colleague Maras is very simple whenever a young man joins in the student elections together with his fellow Youth Forum colleagues you have always been defeated. If we're going to look at the statistics of the money that went to the student projects and everything the public forums were at the head of the student associations, more money went to your side. So this whole young student choir thing doesn't stand. I, however, and as for youth and youth of any party I appeal to be free to run, let them engage socially. But don't do what you do with them because it's the only thing that detimizes others. Why? So the rest of you in that chair can tell a little 100 years next, that's why you're doing it. Now... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand.]] What am I now? Insulted the chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97894	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras. I'll talk to you again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97895	Thank you very much. I find it strange that you, as an experienced leader, did not notice that Mr. Babic. And I apologize. I apologize, how much you perform in the House and how rarely you sit in that chair I haven't even remembered your last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97896	What article? What the...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97897	So on that side, maybe it would be Maybe it'd be good if you sat down a little bit more. [[/Intruder Radin: What's the article?]] 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97898	No, I don't. Wait. You haven't said so far. [[/Attack Maras: 238.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Maras: Here's what I'm saying.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97899	So in 238, he was injured that Mr. Babic was a little more common here in the assembly and he might know his last name, and then maybe he could justify coming here, so next time maybe again. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97900	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure to each other. We can go for coffee while you two give yourself, only the three of us will stay and the rest of us don't know. Here you go. Can I get you an article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97901	238. If he's going to look at his colleague Maras because he insults a colleague of his own, and I don't know why he's young, so I'm telling you that you insult your colleagues from the choir, you insult your fellow parties, so you insult a younger representative, probably because you're afraid of younger people who are coming and tomorrow I hope to see you again soon. But what's stupid about this whole story?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97902	Time, Mr. Bacic. I'm not giving any warning. Let's move on. Mr. Mikulić. Here you go, Mr. Mikulić. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97903	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bačić, I'm glad you're in the defense of the student assembly. There were 10 members of the Croatian Student Assembly present today, and I believe that none of them are in the Croatian Democratic Community. I don't know the guys personally. I met them under this law. I am pleased that you have also highlighted about these 0.5% of intervention incomes that go essentially for students, go for projects, for social, cultural and sports components and all that students decide should and financially encourage, by signing the blessing of the Student Centre, oversees and the Ministry so that I do not see what concerns from the second part of the Parliament. Individuals also said students don't work, and the Student Assembly doesn't seem to work. But it's important here to emphasize what goes on in their favor that exactly the Student Assembly is the initiator of this law that some have failed to pass over 22 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97904	Thank you. Time. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97905	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Mikulić. We have definitely little and highlighted the quality of boys and girls in student choirs who are the initiators of this bill, which are initiators of hundreds of regulations currently implemented at our universities, at our student centres. If their engagement had not been made, and there was no effort that they were definitely doing the job, and they would not have been ashamed that they were paid full pay for that job that they do and do much more than some of them, and unfortunately, the promoters and professors and so on. They're the main initiator of this 0.5% that's going to go. Especially for student projects should not work I repeat my reputation about it clearly in Article 14 how these projects will be implemented and on which projects will be realised, who is in the commission, where they must be carried out, who controls I think it will work and...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97906	Thank you. Time. And now we continue with individual debates. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97907	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here's what we're gonna do right now. We're gonna break that name that the ruling is constantly trying to propagate. I'll talk about the good side of the law first. And I told myself, in my own line, that this law absolutely has its own good side which should certainly be welcomed. It has already been said in the debate that the regulation that regulated this segment, therefore, has been passed since 1996, so many years ago. Terms and conditions and conditions on the labour market have changed greatly and created the need for new regulation of this segment of work, studies however you like. I also think that my denominator, Col. Mikulić, mentioned that more than 150 thousand students are studying in Croatia. That figure is even closer, 160 thousand so that this figure itself speaks of the importance of the law that we are discussing today, already in the second reading. So the good side of the law absolutely exists. The first of them to point out is to regulate a minimum captainate that has not been uniformed so far in different parts of Croatia or under the authority of different student centres could have been different. So the minimum rate is calculated so that the amount of minimum gross earnings in Croatia will be divided by 160 according to the special regulation. If we consider that the minimum gross salary for this year is 3 thousand 439 kuna and 80 limes, that means that the minimum student captainship, if, of course, this year is adopted for this law and I assume that there exists on the side of the ruling intentions to do so, will be 21 kuna and 49 limes. So, it's absolutely to say hello, to prescribe a minimum hour because student work especially, to tell parts of Croatia where it was harder to find a job, was very well worth it when we talk about compensation. So 50% more is paid on Sundays, 50% more is paid by night work, although as I mentioned before by the Labour Act, workers, therefore working in accordance with the Labour Treaty, if otherwise prescribed by collective agreement, have the right to 30% more for nights, say. The fee for work is secured, so a 15-day period has been set in which the employer must pay what the student has earned and also prescribes dragon penalties for employers who do not respect this. So, if they're already using the benefits of cheaper work, student work, then it's minimally a responsibility to make that work and pay, and if they don't pay, a commitment to themselves, so to deprive the student, the student centre takes over. That's certainly good, but that's the only question I've got of whether the student centre will have money for it if there's too many offenders, we hope these dragons will serve precisely to deter employers from such unfair practices. Also, labour inspection is more competent now to oversee student work, which is certainly good because we ourselves know that abuse was. So here's something about the good side of the law, almost half my debate I spent on saying there's something good in the law. However, there are shortcomings. The shortcomings we can still fix through the amendments that the SDP Representatives Club has submitted, but there's still the government to do if it wants to. So what bothers me about the law is that there are no clear guarantees to prevent abuse. Labour inspection has more jurisdiction, it's certainly fine, but there can still be theoretical abuses, like someone else working under someone else's name and not a student, no student rights and so on. So these abuses have and if we're talking about the real situation on the market, that's exactly what it is. There is also no protection for those who are currently working on a work contract. So, we're talking about first of all, the extraordinary students who work under the contract on work and work are studying, which is their guarantee that the employer simply won't decide by adopting this law, that they're cheaper, more cost-effective to work on a student contract, not on a labor contract? So we have to keep that segment in mind. What particularly bothers me, and more than that, this Law has been proposed by the Ministry of Science and Education, is that it does not foresee keeping a record of student work as an experience. So, if we're talking about experience, lifelong learning, this isn't exactly in the spirit of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the acquisition of knowledge and skills and through informal education, I consider work and experience in the work exactly like that, and actually there are students cut off through something that shouldn't be and that is, it's clear that their internship isn't going to run, but experience, I think I can get there. In 2016, the students made money, you know how much? One billion and 145 million kuna, which is a very large amount of money. So, we talked about these 12% that will be taken by student intervention centres during employment, I would like those funds to be spent on exactly what they're intended for, and that's raising the level of service of student centres, and my colleague Maras was talking about it before and before, so our imagination can be a limit, and so more that student centres can also use the resources of students themselves. Here's an example, so FER in Zagreb or ETF in Osijek can do applications for a student centre where students could come or search jobs and things like that. In this way, we have, in fact, made double profits for students to learn, practice, work, but also for their colleagues and the student centre to help them get their services as large as possible. Also 0.5%, these famous departures also bother me that student choirs themselves set criteria or they are not clearly defined for the availability of this money. Unfortunately, there have been abuses, and colleagues before me have already mentioned some examples, so I wouldn't hold on to it. Also, it should be borne in mind, having mechanisms to prevent the exploitation of student work by employers by taking advantage of students rather than hiring on a labor contract. How can we do that? So, students working with the same employer for more than 3 months, it's not about seasonal jobs, in my opinion, employers should be obliged to offer them a job contract, either on a fixed basis, or indefinitely, but after that should offer them that. My colleague Bacic before me, I think he was saying that most students haven't worked with the same employer in over three months, but that doesn't mean they're gone. So we can't help them and secure them this way. And even in the end, I wouldn't mention it if it hadn't been for a live debate, now here, during last debate, but I think it's actually a low turnout when it comes to the student assembly and their work and the low turnout or participation of the student body in their choices is actually the result of their work, i.e., not work. When I was in college, and it was the same long time ago, I don't remember feeling much of a benefit because the student assembly represented me. And that's why I didn't feel the need or the intention to go to that election. In my college, if I remember correctly, the turnout could be 5-6%. So I am absolutely that students should play a role and influence in the formation, so and life in colleges, universities, their free time, accommodations, etc., etc., but first of all, responsibility is on those who have been elected and in fact the result of their work is then how they are experienced by those for whom we should fight, and these are students just as we ultimately account for our citizens or voters who are sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97908	Thank you, too. Yes, you have one replica from Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97909	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, it is good that you mentioned one more topic, and this is not only a lifelong education, but it is the subject of students who get certain experience when they work. In our legislation we have set up in a way that just by completing the study you have to have behind it for a certain professional exam. And then if you're going, if you're working out somewhere for 2 or 3 months or as a student or after that your experience is being used for a professional exam that you have to prove that you've been doing for, say, a year and a half. You don't have to be busy, but you have to work. So it would be extremely good if this law recognized it and made it possible. So, during your studies, I'm talking about my college architecture, you work at some desk, you get some experience, and when you finish that experience you can consider for some other things. This is not possible with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97910	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97911	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I couldn't agree more, and it's not really in the spirit of the law that we've passed, unless I'm wrong in 2013. Perhaps even before, perhaps already in 2012 now I can't remember exactly the time. And this is about the Croatian qualification framework that should have just played a role and encouraged both young and not only young but the entire population to learn and acquire skills and experiences throughout life through informal education. The work is definitely one of these, and the particulars of your profession that young people can actually work in the bureaus and gain experience that can later help them in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97912	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what someone said in the moment. We're the finale of today's debate on the Law on Student Affairs. So here's why I'm going to use my time to kind of try and recapture some of the key points of this Law from my point of view, and yet I'm trying not to repeat myself with everything that's been said so far. I'm going to try to sum up here briefly and say in the beginning that in general, therefore, this law primarily allows for the adjustment of the time in which we live. Because if we take into account the fact that one of the first and last regulations that regulates student affairs in 1996, then, after 22 years, we actually have a law that regulates student affairs and in some way is in the right sense that word and reflection of flexibility and certainly taking into account the nature and composition of the student population 22 years after this first and only regulation that regulates this problem. I'll just remind you once again that when it comes to the student population that we have three categories of students. We had them first of all regular students. Then we have one historical category, these are students who were up until about 5, 6 years ago if I wasn't wrong about studying for so-called. personal needs. And the third category is a category of extraordinary students. It is precisely a reflection of flexibility and adaptation that this fact is that we here in this law include and enable students to do student jobs and extracurricular students who do not work. Now I'm going back to this historical category of students who used to study for personal purposes. Since these categories are no longer available, today we are somehow being imposed instead of that part of the population exactly this part of the student population that we have today, and these are extraordinary students who are actually not working, and they are studying remarkablely because they are paying their tuition as extraordinary students so that in some way they can enter the system and by being more than once emphasized, and I agree with that, in fact, lose that basic purpose and that meaning. So, we've made a little bit of a mix-up of extraordinary students in the right sense of words that we should study here in exceptional ways, and be at our jobs and extraordinary students who don't actually work. And in this way I would dare say we're trying to bridge this legal solution with this one phase of transition from one category to another and I'd say we're going to see and actually this transition phase of time is going to show how it's going to get through. And I certainly stand for it, and I agree with all my colleagues and colleagues who have expressed their position that we must first of all define what a remarkable student is. Of course, this law will not solve it, nor should this law address this problem of defining an extraordinary student defines lex specialis, which is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and I am glad that this problem has been put out. And it will also be an opportunity for this issue to be discussed when, here and I believe that the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education will come to order, and we will discuss it. What I still need to stress here and repeat once again, that we have the Law on Student Affairs here, that we also discussed and that in the discussions we have actually had a little bit sometimes and differed in a conceptual approach. So, the essence of the law that he is now in the final reading before us is actually the Law on Student Affairs, which just wants to highlight the difference between student jobs and student work, which is precisely a special category of jobs that have an occasional, temporary or seasonal character, and there is actually a difference between work based on a labour contract and which is regulated by the Labour and Labour Act, which is based on a student contract and whose problem should be regulated by the Law on Student Jobs and in this sense I represent thesis and advocate that the student is not and cannot be replaced by a classical worker. The student is not a substitute for a classic worker and for that reason we need the Law on Student Affairs. If we're going to treat the student as a classical worker then we don't need the Law on Student Affairs and I'm glad that my colleague Bačić presented a part of the SC analysis to me in Split, where it's clear that the data showed the nature and duration of the student affairs where most of them are taking place seasonally, so here's a suggestion to the Ministry of Education and Science, it would be interesting to do an analysis with all SCs to see, so to get the data of what is really the nature of the student affairs, how long it takes, where employers, so just so that we can read some of these facts that we shouldn't and should discuss them by heart. These key points of the law, we've already passed them, I'm here because we've repeated them several times, I wouldn't stress it again. What I think needs to be particularly highlighted, it seems to me that we haven't talked about, this law within ourselves, so at least I see it, has one highlighted above all social and then pedagogical and then demographic dimension. Social because students are allowed to earn extra money, although the work on student jobs was mostly allowance, today unfortunately it is no longer an allowance but a dry need, and it is good that this law regulates the ability of students to work and do student jobs. Pedagogical dimension, of course, the acquisition of a culture of work and the introduction into the market and the introduction into the world of work and, of course, this strong highlighted, demographic dimension where it enables our young people to obtain in one way or another additional financial resources that will enable them later and later and in situations where soon after the study is completed, they are able to start their own families, start their own homes, raise their children, so this is a good starting position. And of course, I'd say here's the end of it, that this law certainly raises the standard of students, and I'm going to point out once again, this is the first time after 22 years that we have a law that regulates student affairs. So far, we've done student work, student jobs, we've called them whatever we want, regulated by the rules, this is for the first time in 22 years, the law that's been formed in high and level of consensus with students who have participated in the making of laws which I think is very good and that it's very positive and finally I say, after 22 years students have their own law and I'm trying to understand some of the colleagues and colleagues who are here regretting that in the past years during their mandates, they've had a chance which they unfortunately missed, perhaps this law could have been passed before for some other mandates and that some have missed the chance, it's really their problem and in any case, this legislative proposal and I personally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97914	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first line has Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97915	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, it's good that you've opened one topic and it's good to talk about it, actually, that they're extraordinary students today, and I think the time has come for us to change some other regulations and call things a real name. So we have students who are regular and who are actually paid out of the budget. And we have students who pay for their studies. I don't see any problem that under certain conditions we have this type of student and that they are, they're not even an extraordinary study anymore which was a study with work when someone was working so they had to. I'm, like, a college graduate who didn't even have the opportunity to study at all, there or you graduated college or you didn't. So we have to start calling things by the right name, we're very inclined to call things wrong and then actually all the discussions and everything goes wrong, let's call things a real name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97916	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97917	Here I am pleased with my colleague Mrak-Taritash, that you agree with this and indeed here and through today's debate we have crystallised a problem which in some of the following steps we will really have to solve, and as I have said, this law can neither nor will the law which is intended to solve this problem but certainly when it comes to the order of lex specialis, which is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and we will certainly discuss it and, of course, this way here and in the Ministry of Science and Education to pay attention to this problem and to try to find the only solution that you have said, things will be called and named by the right name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97918	Thank you. The second line has Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97919	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, so here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, took my replica in some way, and just before I spoke in the previous replica to my colleague, Glasovac, and she answered me precisely on this topic of extraordinary students. Because really here when we look a little bit there is obviously a fundamental cause of the problem that students find themselves in, especially extraordinary students. What we really need to say, which is the fact that programs and actually the obligations of extraordinary students are nothing different from programs and the obligations of regular students. And there's a number, a number, so when we look at it because I've talked to a number of students, extraordinary students really are their obligations almost identical. And of course with all this together that really this work and the possibility really is their real need.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97920	Thank you. Time. Mrs. Bedekovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97921	So colleagues, obligations, captains and programmes of regular and extraordinary students should not be the same and should not be the same and this depends on the parent home or on this programme of higher education at which they study. But here you have opened another additional, yet another question that needs to be discussed, which is the quantity, the quality, the whole range of study programs at different high schools. And when I tell high schools, I think about our universities, and about universities, and about high schools, and I think there's also fasting and there's also room to improve the system. But also for calling, calling things their real name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97922	Thank you, too. We continue with, now Mr. Tomo Sokol will not continue the individual debate, but finally on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97923	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, here, I'll try to sum up what's been said here in the last few hours. It's been said a lot. There were useful suggestions and suggestions, but also a lot of misinformation, wrong data, manipulation, etc. The first thing I would point out is that we have one, that some representatives have a conceptual intolerance of student affairs as special categories. Because when we heard suggestions from some who were actually on the trail that student jobs should be even with a working relationship then they're actually saying the same contribution and the same tax, the same conditions that then that category as such doesn't make sense. But what I would point out is that we really need to give up this mentality that is the product of past times that everything has to be regulated and reregulated. So, you're legally prescribing that students are making work contracts, you're just going to get that student jobs won't be there anymore, but that the jobs that are in their nature will be occasional and temporary to be done on black. So you can't force an employer to hire someone if he doesn't have his own interest here and we need to understand that and we need to move away from that mentality in general because that pre-regulatory, the desire to solve everything with normative optimism is actually choking the economy and suffocating the labour market and suffocating the entire country. There have been some suggestions regarding the regulation that if the date is a personally conditioned resignation, that it cannot be 6 months the same means a student doing those jobs. Now we have a provision on business terms and conditions. I think such regulation is unnecessary because which employer will go to give a personal suspended notice where it must be proved that someone is not capable, why he is not able to do jobs etc. to bring a student here to do these jobs. In practice, this will not happen in practice. So that's a problem that just doesn't exist. It's a lot too complicated for both employers and anyone who would go into that story. Further those who are the loudest here about the need to protect students from exploitation, etc. They didn't do anything to pass the new law. So today we have a 20-year-old rule, and all these things that have been passed here by this law are actually new. That's all the steps. So the work of extraordinary students, the right to minimum compensation, the increase of 50% of cases of working on holidays, weekends, etc., prescribed sanctions, the jurisdiction of labour inspection, electronic forms means that these are all things that have not been prescribed so far and those who have not prescribed this opportunity to tell us that we have not yet gone one step further. I think it's really very, very hypocritical. They also mentioned scholarships. So for the sake of the public we need to highlight the question of scholarships that they are not involved in that release from those 15 thousand for parents has already been in this House in the first reading in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act. And it was already here. So they had a chance to read it all and see it so I really don't know why to discover hot water now. As for raising the general threshold to 30,000, let's say what is proposed is suggested by the same ones who say student jobs should be limited in the number of hours. Well right now that 15 grand limit is de facto that restriction because after that, these students will no longer be paid to do student jobs through a November service. So right now it's some kind of restriction. We can talk about whether this restriction should be increased. I personally think so, but then we can't stand up for two diametric opposites at the same time. Next mentioned were student choirs whose youth is inside, whose not, etc. I wouldn't really get into that. However, what is important, this law for the first time makes it clear that the funds must be distributed for which purposes, for the first time, it prescribes that they are the funds of the student centre and that ultimately it is the principal of the student centre that they have. So you have double control. So... the student center will check if the contest was okay. Of course he won't write off something he finds illegal because that director is responsible then. You have further supervision of the Ministry of Science and Education clearly prescribed and for the first time it is clearly prescribed that the student centre or intermediary must clearly publish, bring, publish criteria and distributions. So these criteria don't bring together a student choir. So now we've got a few control mechanisms we haven't had before. And those who didn't want to solve it so far, who didn't care about it now say it's not enough either, and I think we really need to watch how and what we're saying in this assembly, that we don't need to manipulate. And of course once again here I can say on behalf of the HDZ Club that it supports this law along with some of the amendments we have proposed through committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97924	Thank you, too. The second Club of Representatives is a bridge on whose name Tomislav Žagar will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97925	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So we should once again point out, and for the sake of the public, this legislative proposal has arrived at the student initiative in Parliament. I congratulate them on that. A student started a petition and the ministry started, the truth took almost two years to come to the Assembly, but good for him to come. What would also be extremely important is that students continue to launch initiatives to change not only the legal proposals that concern them personally, but many other legal proposals, and ultimately the young people in this country are again the most concerned. So here's only one piece of information, in this academic year in the autumn period, there are a thousand 377 available places left in pre-graduate university and professional studies in Osijek. So it's about a third of the place. Thus, only 119 out of 444 pre-graduates were enrolled at the Faculty of Agriculture. And in the last 13 school years alone in Slavonia, there are almost 34 thousand students left. These are the things that concern this law, and all the laws that are passed here. Poverty is something that stands in the correlation, unfortunately, with the success of studying because there is a vicious circle here. Clearly, the poor must come and work to study. When they work, they have less time to learn, and we know that, for example, accommodation in student homes is one of the main criteria of success, excellence. So, and in our homes at this point it's fostered, only 8% of students can be adopted. So it's about a circle that's unfavourable for students especially for the weaker property, so this law needs to be welcomed. However, I am personally thinking, and I also share this at the Mosta Club that it should have been a little more ambitious and start with a little bit more incentives or motives and entrepreneurs that students are more involved in the world of work in such a way that they succeed and earn their education, but that they are also doing jobs that will later be their subject of their profession. Because more than a third of students consider their financial situation to be serious and very serious according to research. And now there's still time to say that as a club, we're going to submit three amendments. I'll briefly tell you what it's all about. Therefore, Article 11(3) of point 7 reads: ‘The data on the net price of the job, the amount of work and the estimated duration of the job’. Therefore, in this point 7 only defined data on someone's price of work or the amount of work. We don't think the ally is good. Why should it be either one or the other? It shall be specified in the contract and price data, net price, quantity and estimated duration of the transaction. Article 11(7) should be amended to read: “The contract is concluded for each academic year and is a condition for the performance of the student’s work.” To tie our contracts to the academic year, so it doesn't have to be a new contract every month, to reduce the administrative burden. In this connection, Article 11(8) is amended as follows: “The contractor and the job manager sign a declaration each month confirming the final number of hours and days of work carried out. ” So instead of signing contracts every month that the performer and the client therefore the student and employer sign a contract in which they will define the exact time, range of work and time spent at work. And of course, in this respect, Article 13(2) should be amended, that is, Amendment 3. "The job manager shall be obliged to pay compensations for the work carried out no later than 15 days in the following month." If that goes to every month's statement, then I'll tie this payment to it. Once again I will emphasize what we said in... The legislative proposal is correct. [[You don't understand.]] He's not ambitious, but he's correct. And as many colleagues and colleagues have determined after 22 years, it's a good thing he's here to finally make himself. We hope that he will help our students succeed what is the main intensities of the law to get the means by working to advance or improve their own and what is most regrettable is actually to enable them to study because without that work they could not even study. Based on the government's testimony on our amendments, we will vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97926	Thank you. And finally also in front of SDP's Club of Representatives this time, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am always pleased when we are discussing young people, the future of Croatia, to have this kind of interest and to discuss it for so long. Of course, this is not always the result that our discussions, however high quality they are, end up with a good legal proposal. I'll do it again. We of the SDP Club absolutely support the intensity of this law. And it took a long time actually until we even started to change this segment of work and this segment and the kind of student life. However, we believe that the law has serious shortcomings that can still be completed, so there is still time for either our amendments, amendments to other clubs and amendments to the government itself. And here again, I want to underline our main grudges. Therefore, it is not envisaged to keep a record of student work as an experience which I do not think is in line with HKO means the Croatian Qualifications Committee, the intention and the intention to adopt the same, and also European standards. So, work is definitely the way in which knowledge and skills are acquired and as such needs to be valorized and thus we also give added value to all students who work, which is precisely that they acquire certain qualifications and experience for their future work and performance on the post-study labour market. Also, exceptional students again who spend more than three months with the same employer, and this is not about seasonal work, so the employer should offer them a job contract, either on a fixed or indefinite basis. We think it can be prevented, can prevent the abuse of students as a workforce. Also, although the labour inspection is competent, its competences have been increased as far as the regulation of student work is concerned, we do not think there is still a clear guarantee to prevent many abuses. Also, what we welcome is a legal deadline under which, within 15 days, employers are obliged to pay the students what they have earned and to prescribe dragon penalties unless they do so. Also, one of the great disadvantages of the law is, although it has one good intention and it is that overtime pays 50% more anywhere is not prescribed how normal the time of work is, is it 8 hours a day, 5 hours, 10.50 per week, etc. So I'm sure no employer will pay 50% of the hour unless he has to. We always have behind this pay phone and in this room a debate about overnoding or too little norming. So when we talk about laws, it's clear that everything can't be solved by law. There is, therefore, a philosophy that forbidden everything that is not permitted, that is one legal thought or that everything that is not permitted is forbidden. So, whatever you're looking at, there's a lot of holes. But experience has shown, therefore, that as legislators and politicians, I say that it is true and the best way is somewhere in the middle, so neither too nor too much nor too much, and what we warn is from the SDP club that certain segments should be more normized because experience has so far shown that they are being used more frequently, i.e. certain gray areas of employers and how they use for their own benefit. In the end, what's controversial is this 0.5% of what student choirs get. I want to share with you what I got in a message from a former student who was talking about the work of a student choir and this is clean.../incomprehensible/... I'm going to quote it, I'm just going to protect his identity so you don't know what college it's about. He says this: I was the president of a college student association and we did everything in college, and we kept asking ourselves where is this college choir that boasts so much. He didn't do anything except once a year's tea party, so here's your clean co-worker and co-worker. OK, maybe the availability and the availability of these 05.% student choirs can't or shouldn't be regulated by law, but I'd like to be told then by the promoters that it will regulate the rule that would be one of the acceptable solutions. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDP has submitted a series of amendments, and we believe that the intensity of the law is good, and in accepting or not accepting the amendments will depend on our position, so far, if there remains an unchanged law as it is, we will be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97928	Thank you both, and finally, Madam Branka Ramljak's secretary of state will have the final, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97929	... MPs here are after more than 4 hours of debate, for which I must admit that I have really listened carefully to each individual, each club of representatives also, every replica for reasons that are difficult to come by, and this one was also an opportunity to discuss many aspects of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] Lait motive is a clear student job, lay motive today were students a lot talked about the status of an extraordinary student. I would say for starters, given the so many concerns and dilemmas, the trilem of definitions especially regarding an extraordinary student. So, we as the Ministry of Science and Education, as an authorised body, are currently working together, so with the commission on a new law on scientific activity and higher education and many issues relating to activities of scientific, teaching and professional work at higher universities in the Republic of Croatia will try to regulate this law. We are aware that every law and this one has, and once voted, there will be possibilities for grooming, there will be possibilities for changes, and no law is such that it should be cemented at the same time. We live in times that are so that we have to stay tuned, constantly watch what's going on in order to install these changes for good in this case of education is about the well-being of our students. As far as this law is concerned, I may once again point out, because a lot of it has been repeated today, of course, I have to admit that individuals have been contradictory in terms of limiting the work, and some have asked for even more rewards, so nothing was clear to me at one point. However, it is not oddly obvious when the debate lasted this long, but I have seen that everyone was in fact well-involved, that this area, which has been regulated for more than 22 years by a small regulation, is sort of regulated because that is the purpose of this law. Editing the area of doing student work, the aim of this law is to increase transparency, you have seen the demand for publications are sought and there are obligations in recording both for the contracting authorities and for intermediaries. There are also large fuses in terms of what and how will be done unless the provisions of this law are respected, so the criminal provisions, in fact, in this last part of the law, are clearly indicated for all those who will violate the provisions of this law. I would also like to say immediately as far as extraordinary students are concerned, so here is the urgency that student work applies to those who study, so they are enrolled in a high school and are not in a working relationship. Today, out of 163,000 students in the Republic of Croatia, we have half of them or just over 50% who, in fact, carry out student work in different ways during the year. I purposely speak all the time of student work, not student work, for the reason that work is regulated by other laws. When the government decided to go into the regulation of this job in early February 2017, three ministries of start and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Science and Education were invited, and then it was agreed that this area would go to the authority of the Ministry of Science and Education. But in the Committee that worked, they were really all the time and competent experts from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, trade unions, student centres, representatives of students, and also from the public universities and higher schools. So, practically, all interested participants were present all the time in making this law. What could be said to be very important in terms of defining the possibility that someone who does a job for it should be adequately rewarded in terms of compensation, we believe that this is indeed the setting of a minimum fee something which is a great contribution to this law. As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna touch these reliefs right here. So, we felt, because some and members of the commission are, but the public is also in the first reading and through the Committees, in fact, you, too, have suggested that you should in some way influence that this amount of relief, which is 15.000 kn, for parents to increase or that this amount actually shifts as a possibility that students can work in some unlimited amount. And since we here say that student work is a part-time and temporary job, we say that he, all our data show seasonal character, then it's very important to emphasize and that this is one of the fuses. This 15,000.00 kn is one of the fuses that won't go too far, as some of them actually thought students would take jobs for workers who have a basic working relationship. One of the articles states that actually intermediaries are obliged to do continuous analysis on the labour market, so as not to have these discrepancys. Well, be careful, of course you'll take care of it. Nor is it anyone's interest in higher education to have our students enter the labour market and in this way do not perform their student part, actually the part that belongs to them as a student, it means that they are studying, neither will they be in charge, I suppose nor the employers to hire students, especially since students here do not do jobs that are consistent with their previous qualifications. They do certain temporary and occasional tasks. One of the big contributions, and here, if I could use a personal pay phone to say as a university teacher that I know and recognize a student who was in any way present on the labour market and the student business market. So he got into that part, we didn't get enough of professional practice. We see it, we cry out for it, we want today to have a young student who will be able to do so after completing his studies that with his qualifications he doesn't have to study for a few more years to start working. We want him to acquire certain competences that will allow him to find a job, but also to acquire self-employment. And that's what he needs practice. Since we have a lot of problems in regulating the systematic resolution of this professional practice through our study programmes, we believe that this form in which we allow students to through this law, to carry out certain tasks in the right conditions gives them a broad picture. I'm making up, I agree, Professor. Lovrinovic said it very nicely, raising the culture of work that is very important for children to gain meaning and young people to gain meaning about how important it is. Also, she would like to emphasise there were issues that did not concern, or comments that did not concern only this law. For example, counterpart Panenic, parliamentary representative Paninic spoke about the students of entrepreneurs, a very good topic. Of course it's good, and we want to work through new study programs in fact in some way these transverse skills that our student should have. And among other things, business and entrepreneurial skills. In order for us to do this, here, through this form also to develop it, but today the University has already been so, I must admit, evolved in a way that independently with a large number of entrepreneurs from their environments, they make agreements about so-called. teaching bases where students still receive certain knowledge from an area that will enable them to be more easily involved in the labour market after completing their education. Furthermore, the distinguished representative Mrak Taritas spoke about the problems that certain qualifications have in the labour market for reasons that cannot unfortunately get a job that corresponds to that qualification, here I would only say that last month the government actually made a decision on the multi-annual financing of higher education and scientific activities through programme contracts, where it clearly defines the basic funding of our schools but also on the basis of the result where certain indicators were set and where the state will take care of what kind of study programmes the state will grant subsidies for individual students, and therefore, it will also be taken into account, I will recall that before the summer the law on the Croatian qualification framework, where, for this very reason, we have put in place an article in which we have said that, when developing new study programmes for which universities have full autonomy should also be kept in mind, and on the opinions of any other relevant ministry, if it is an example of health care and health care is taken from the institutions. So that's the part that I also wanted to highlight because it was asked. A lot of questions were asked about student centres as such, I would just say that student centres are regulated by my special law and someone here is now not exactly saying that student centres are treated just as an entry and exit. I would remind you, so today in the context of this law on the conduct of student centres we viewed as intermediaries in these affairs, between students and performers, pardon the orderly. However, on the other hand, student centres are the ones who care about improving the overall student standard in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, and nutrition and accommodation, and not only this part that applies to fees that allow them to raise that standard as much as possible in the Republic of Croatia in this section. I believe that these abuses that existed, I think, simply to close our eyes to certain things, obviously existed, we believe that the adoption of this law, no law as such will be perfect for us to say in 100% of cases it will not happen, but since the contract is concluded before the start of the job, because there are very large penalties as you saw, so now I see this student or student who will give her contract to someone and will catch him and pay 50,000 kuna, so I think the penalties are also one significant fuse that will make it impossible to abuse any kind of student, without being any other job. Also, you've touched a lot of these issues yet, but they're related to university autonomy, Mr. Vlaovic, if I'm not mistaken, so he's also talking about affecting quotas we repeat we have a constitutional category of university autonomy according to which quotas are at universities but through program funding the state has the right, therefore, to question, to question and to say it will be paid, something else will not be paid, and something else will not for reasons that society or the market as such according to our data, according to the relevant data that exists does not show. She was and, if there was one question, I'm sorry if her colleagues didn't have he asked about the University of Slavonski Brod so, we haven't been getting any new information since June, he said he had something, we didn't get any other information about that university. Furthermore, it was also about the student assembly, so I wouldn't particularly comment on the part except that I know the way the projects are allocated. What has introduced a lot of order in funding the activities students are doing is a project basis, they are now so that any amount of money can get they have to write the project. The project is mostly from the field of culture, in the field of sport, in the field of environmental science, in the area of protection of different minorities, then the area they deal with is often organised by scientific and professional conferences, meaning that it is actually a range of activities students are dealing with today that are growing and larger. And we also know just how good the results are achieved by our students, and that is true and clear if they want to be competitive, they have to go to international competitions of any kind, and for that they also need the appropriate sums of money. I am sure that this commission, which will in some way allocate these funds, will be responsible and will have to publish and report publicly, so we will all see these reports, really responsibly access this job, and thus allow the funds that will be collected as compensation to actually come to those who need them, which are our students. And finally, I'd really like to thank all of you who participated in the debate and this whole commission that took part in this part and I'm saying I'm glad that in a few hours you managed to put our students first and that we're talking about them, and here we expect and very nearly through the great law that should come to the assembly that there will be room for progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97930	You still have one replica from Mr. Sagar. No, you can come back from here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97931	Thank you, Vice-President, Madam Ramljak, the Honorable State Secretary, just to once again clarify my views, is related to the place where this law was to be passed. All right, let the Ministry of Science and Education bring it. But the primary task or goal of the Ministry of Science and Education is the education of young people. And so, as representatives of the Ministry, you aim to get as many young people as possible to finish their studies. And to complete their studies, they need work because, many of them, they have such a life, such a financial environment that they don't have enough resources for their studies. And that's why it's a remark. The second question is whether there is actually a need for student work in the Republic of Croatia. Are they students who work in slaughterhouses, shops, as customer support? Are those the right jobs for students? These jobs are exclusively in the function of obtaining money so that they can study. And will that allow them to advance in their profession, will that allow them to improve their competences? It's a question that should be answered by the Ministry of Education. ... Intruder: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97932	Okay. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97933	Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, second reading, P.Z. No. 348. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Miranda Mrsic, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. State Secretary, please. We're going with the first amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97934	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The first amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is hereby rejected. Namely, the SDP Representatives Club proposes that Article 6 of the certificate issued by the employer may be used as evidence of the experience gained when applying to other employees. In fact, Article 6(3) provides that the intermediary is obliged to issue a certificate to the performer on his request for all the interventions he has made for him and for the purpose of proof of the student affairs performed and acquired experience. Further regulation of the purpose of the certificate is not subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97935	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97936	Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry you're refusing...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97937	Wait a minute, fellow Voter, just a little bit. Here you go. Come in, I didn't see who it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97938	Excuse me, thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that you refuse to accept this amendment, the fact is that certain hours and experiences gained by performing student work are not formalised anywhere, monitored and not valued, and certainly enters the spectrum of relevant work experience for future employment and proving competences, students doing this work. This amendment actually wanted to formalise the system of student work through hours as a work experience to which the confirmation would be issued by the employer and would be valid for future employment. I am sorry that you have no ear for this important step for our students, it is normal in many European countries. I am sorry that Croatia, although it is a full member of the EU, does not follow some positive examples of European countries and I am asking for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97939	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97940	This amendment proposes to add a new paragraph 16 in Article 9 which would read: "The intermediary is obliged to publish a list of employers who have failed to comply with contractual obligations by 31 March." The proposed amendment shall be rejected. It is argued that Article 9 of the Law provides for the obligations of intermediaries in order to protect the contracting authorities in respect of the failure to pay the work compensation and the team in respect of the failure to comply with contractual obligations by the contracting authority. In addition, Article 17(5) provides for a fine for non-execution of compensation and contributions referred to in Article 12(1) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97941	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97942	I am sorry that this amendment has not been accepted because in law, what is stipulated in the law is not enough for students to know who unfair employers are and who employers do not pay for the work of students. And I think this would allow unfair employers who cheat, who do not pay fees to students to be removed from the labour market. There are already laws in which we have a list of employers who don't pay their salaries and which has led to a drop in the number of employers who don't pay their salaries to workers, and I think this is also the way to get those employers off the labour market who do the same thing to students. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97943	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we move on to Amendment No. 3rd of the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97944	This amendment by independent representative Miranda Mrsic proposes to add in Article 10 a new item 8 which reads: contracts can only be concluded for a period when the contractors do not have an obligation to study. The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. In view of the fact that this bill, the definition of students includes extraordinary students and other persons, such a restriction is neither possible nor desirable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97945	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97946	The limitation of student work exists in the laws of European states, in German law in Italian law, and that is how you will prevent abuses on both sides. By law on the performance of student affairs, you deliver cheap labour to the labour market. There is no limit to working time, nor is there a limit when these student jobs can be done. Whether even at a time when students have study obligations, and instead of carrying out study obligations, they will then do student jobs. With this law, you delivered students as cheap labour to the labour market. And everything you put into the law, like anchors, that will make it impossible for employers to abuse this institute, to fall into the water. Because students can work 60 hours, 120 hours as long as they can, as much as their physical powers allow, and what's a shame, that this law did not protect students from exploitation. There is no obligation by the employer to define working time, students can, as he said, do much more than is allowed by EU directives and our labour law. In this law you are calling for a labour inspection, you are calling for a law on protection at work, but you are not referring to the most important document, and this is the labour law, because what this is about is work, and it is not business, and it is not work that should be protected by the labour law, I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97947	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get needed no. votes, so let's go to Amendment No. 4. It's an independent list bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97948	The Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, proposes to be in art. Paragraph 3.7 shall be amended and reported, data on the net price of the hours of work, the amount of work and the estimated duration of the work. The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. Namely, art. Article 11(3) provides for what all contracts must contain, and provides for provisions proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and proposed. The same Article provides that the Minister shall prescribe the form of the contract form and the form and manner of the data delivery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97949	The obviouss of my colleague, Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97950	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Now you're a little contradictory, you say that in art. 11. defines what all contracts must contain, and then you say the minister will bring it in with the rules. This proposal just wanted to make it more clear what the contract should contain, precisely for these reasons, to know what the student would do, how much time he would work, and how much the price of his work would be. In the current article. Paragraph 3 of point 7 reads that it must contain data on the net price of the hours of work or the amount of work. This ally is unnecessary there, in that sense we went with this amendment, I'm sorry you don't accept it, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97951	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment No. Five of the same club MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97952	So this amendment proposes to be an article. Article 11(7) is amended and the contract is concluded with each academic year is a condition for the performance of student work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. hours and days of work. The proposed amendment shall be rejected. Namely, student jobs are repeatedly highlighted, occasional and temporary character and cannot be concluded for each academic gentleman but exclusively for each calendar month and before the start of student work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97953	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97954	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the meaning of this amendment has been, that it is transparent or visible, which tasks the student will do during the academic Mr. Employer can predict and define by contract, and for each month. submit a report on the hours carried out. The administrative burden of both employers and intermediaries and students would be reduced, and the whole process would be more visible. I'm sorry you didn't accept the amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97955	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment didn't get needed no. votes. Amendment No. 6th Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97956	This amendment proposes to be in art. In addition, paragraph 8, which reads, the intermediary is obliged to publish the financial data publicly by 31 March at the latest on the way in which the fees were used in the previous year, the proposed amendment is rejected. The revenues from the intervention, namely, are prescribed in Art. 14. where paragraph 7 states that the intermediary is obliged, by 1 March at the latest, to publish on its website, distribution data and dedicated use of the intervention income, in the performance of student affairs, and to submit a written report to the Ministry, as well as a final account for the previous calendar Mr.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97957	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97958	In the cost of fees collected by student contracts, it is necessary to introduce a lot more transparency, one of the financial reports that are what they are and they are in most cases, for ordinary citizens who are not experts, unreadable and we know what the reports are and the student centre is that these reports were transparent and clear, then the student centre would not be lost, would not be in recovery, would not be 3 times below... The administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This amendment would allow everyone, whether through a student service or not, to have an insight into whom these funds were paid, to whom these funds were paid and for which purpose, because you in the financial reports of the student centre and others dealing with these affairs have no specificity to whom, as well as for what purpose, which is why these funds are allocated to this and that. They would allow transparency, clarity and that is what citizens require that the funds that are given through the state budget or in any other way are very clearly explained and show who these funds are and why and what services or what services it has received and whether it was real for raising the student standard or whether it was party-related and done. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97959	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 7 of the Independent List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97960	The amendment refuses. The student contract may take less than a month and the proposed provision would repay the payment of the student's fee. Article 2 of that Article provides that the contracting authority is obliged to pay the compensation for the work carried out no later than 15 days after the completion of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97961	It's obvious, Comrade Sagar, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97962	Thank you, Mr. President. Since no amendment to Article 11, and this amendment only makes sense in that case, we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97963	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 8 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97964	The amendment refuses. This bill for the first time actually prescribes a minimum fee for the work carried out by a student, the right to 50% increase in work hours in the days of the state holiday, work at night, the right to travel expenses and other fees if they are agreed in a way that respects the rights and dignity of the performer, or student. This represents a sufficient protection mechanism for students who perform, repeat, temporary and occasional jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97965	An obvious colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97966	Thank you, Mr. President. You've written a lot of things in this law, and you're going to pay 50% more students who work overtime, and you haven't defined anywhere which is the maximum captain that students can perform. So what you put into the law is a lie because you won't be able to pay the students 50% more for overtime because there's simply no upper limit. It's true that you said you prescribed a minimum fee for student work and that's good, but we disagree that in the same room, two outstanding students work on the same jobs, one on the contract, the other on the student contract and one on the 40kn, say the captain, and the other on 21.69. This is exactly the kind of injustice we want to correct with this amendment, and we are asking that, in fact, for jobs carried out with equal intensity, knowledge and skills students through a student contract be paid 65% of the amount of the labour price for which the other workers will be paid. I'm sorry that you didn't recognize the need to correct the injustices that have been done to the students so far, but you'll deepen them even with such solutions. Please vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97967	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment 9 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97968	This amendment is rejected, and the explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97969	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97970	That sadness is as great as it was in the past. You also prescribed that you would provide students with travel expenses, compensation for a warm meal and other fees only and only if they were contracted for the performance of student jobs. We disagree. We ask that if students are to be employed in jobs where employees who are on a job contract will be paid travel expenses, compensation for a warm meal and other fees, we expect the employer to act in the same way as employees who are on the contract of work and on students working through student services. Love is love. The only difference between student work and any other work is that student work is temporary and occasional, but that does not mean that students should be exploited, less paid and not have the same rights as all other workers. Please vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97971	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to amendment number 10 of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97972	The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. In the light of the draft law, the contracting authority which, as an employer, has cancelled a worker by way of a commercial notice, must not cancel a worker for 6 months from the date of delivery of a job contract for that type of work with the performer to conclude a contract on the performance of student jobs. It is, in a sense, an employee’s fault that has led to the decision to give him a personal conditioned resignation, unlike the business conditioned one when the employer makes a business decision and gives cancellations to the worker and, in that case, must not, I repeat, take six months from the date of delivery of the job contract for that type of job with the student contract performer to make such a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97973	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97974	Thank you very much. Indeed, by the final proposal of the law, you prescribe that a job which, as an employer of a business condition, has been cancelled by a worker, must not be cancelled by a worker for 6 months from the date of delivery of a job contract for that type of work with the performer, to conclude a contract for the performance of student jobs. However, given the fact that employers often avoid the application of collectively taking care of extra workers, i.e. avoiding the application of a ban on the employment of new workers in the event of commercially conditioned termination of a labour contract, avoid the application of a job contract for business conditions, we also suggest that we add the circumstances of termination for personal reasons as circumstances for which the employer should not use student work. It is, in practice, the fact that employers resort to disguised cancellations for commercially conditional reasons in such a way as to use the conditioned reasons on which they base the cancellation of the labour contract instead of the commercially conditioned reasons. So if only the circumstances of the specifically conditioned reasons were maintained in the law, it would mean that it leaves a wide range of space for employers who, in some of the ways that this law did not prescribe, have resolved workers to use student work, so neither students nor workers are provided with adequate protection. In doing so, we believe that the ban on the employment of students under these circumstances must be absolute and that the law must not prescribe any exceptions to these rules. I demand a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97975	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 11th Re-Club of SDP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97976	The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. In particular, this paragraph 7 in Article 13 provides for the protection that workers cannot be replaced by a student, i.e. this item is an additional protection so that the labour contract cannot be replaced by a student contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97977	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97978	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 13(7) provides that where, within the time limit set out in paragraph 6 of this Article, the need for employment is created in order to carry out the same tasks and the worker who has been cancelled by the contracting authority for a commercially conditioned reason does not accept the conclusion of a contract on the work of the contracting authority may conclude a contract. This principle clearly indicates that students are a replacement workforce and that doing jobs that are of their own nature characterized by work, performing jobs that are naturally characterized by working relationships. If there is a need for employment with the employer then it is logical to hire new workers rather than students and it is not appropriate that the employment obligation is only tied to the worker whose employer has cancelled the employment contract but the employer is obliged to fill that job with an unemployed worker instead of a student. The law should provide for an absolute ban on the employment of students over a period of 6 months from the date of termination, and it is not appropriate to prescribe conditions under which an exemption from that rule is possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97979	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to the 12th Pre-Last Amendment, the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97980	The proposed amendment refuses, namely student affairs in nature are such that they are done occasionally and temporarily and often shorter and more intensely. Restrictions are set in terms of a fee that can be achieved by means of student contracts. In addition, Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 provides that the performer who performs the student work for at least 6 hours a day shall have the right to a paid committee of at least 30 minutes each day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97981	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97982	Thank you, Mr. President. The only thing we wanted to do with this amendment was actually regulate the overall duration of working time and vacation to prescribe the same for workers and for the duration of the work and rest of the students. This law prescribes only the right to a break, but the law does not limit the overall duration of students' work in one day, week or month. It is also not prescribed how much their full time is, but it is neat, as I have already said, that overtime fees are prescribed that will never be paid because it is not known what overwork is or what is overtime. So here I am asking for a vote on our amendment, given that you as a proposing do not accept it and I regret that it is so, that you have no hearing of this law being even better. The intensity of our amendments was only to improve this law that you have proposed and that some of the holes that are already visible in the law, which could be subject to abuse, can be reduced to a minimum measure, I am sorry that you did not recognize it and that you judge our amendments only according to which benches come from which side of the assembly and not to the quality and intensity that even more protection of students. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97983	Let's also vote on this amendment. It did not receive the required number of votes, so we move on to the last amendment, which is the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97984	The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. In particular, the Legislative Committee proposes to supplement the provision governing fines in the event of a breach of Article 13(8), because the criminal penalty for carrying out a job in a safe manner and in a way that does not endanger the health of the performer but contains the Labour Protection Act and does not require further regulation of criminal provisions. The same thing was suggested by the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare and Pensions and that provision was deleted between the two readings of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97985	An obvious colleague of Jelkovac's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97986	Thank you very much, Mr. President, given the argument given, we are withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97987	Thank you. We are now going to vote on the final proposal, thank you, on the final proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 85 for, 32 abstentions and 2 votes against the passed Law on the performance of student affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97988	And now we have two laws and there's, as far as I understand, consent between clubs, that based on an art. 247 of our Rules of Procedure to unite the debate. These are laws, these are two bill proposals, so first reading. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on environmental protection and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on sustainable waste management. Do you mind if we have one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97989	Dear Vice President, I think these two laws both have enough importance for our country. They're also very far away, so I don't think it's justified to bring this debate together, and I'm showing our club's disagreement with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97990	Thank you. Then there's nothing left for me but to put it to the vote. If most, yes, yes, yes. If the majority of those present are for such, for the models of the united debate, then they will be united, and if not, they will not be united. It says in the Rules of Procedure, that's the new Rules of Procedure, which, we have to do a little bit more, uh, thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much. Who is it that these two laws that I just read, that we discuss together? Who's in? Against? Abstained? It does statistics,... It's in our statistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So most of it is. Uh, so we'll join together. I will, however, have to read both laws, both these two arguments of the law. So, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. That's Bill No. 429, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. As I said, it is the first reading and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. It is all the same for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Management and Waste Act. It's all the same except that it's the law that carries the number, which is brought on the basis of an article. 17? Yes, the same, and that, it's all exactly the same. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Minister Tomislav Ćoric, Minister of Environment and Energy Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, good day to you. There are therefore two proposals for the Law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. As regards the drafting of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, these amendments have been approached primarily for the sake of an improved authorisation system for professional environmental protection and nature activities through grouping by species and complexity of professional businesses, and in line with EU standards. This is an improvement of the system of monitoring the work of the authorising officer and the withdrawal of consent, the introduction of a lifelong training obligation, and the limitation of the authorisation system exclusively to legal persons. Thus, we have proposed these amendments and additions to the following: provisions are amended to give the authorising officers the power to carry out professional environmental and nature protection tasks through the grouping of professional businesses. So far there have been 26 professional jobs, now they group into 3, into 8 groups of related professional businesses. It is also proposed to grouping according to the complexity and types of business, as well as the necessary qualifications of individual environmental experts, and taking into account the procedures implemented under the Law and the Specific Regulations of the individual... and environmental burdens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This significantly simplifies the outcome of consent, or reduces the administrative burden on legal persons, given that it is the same experts and the same qualifications. It is also equating the period of validity of all consent issued to carry out professional activities at five years, which has not been the case so far. These changes and additions define more precisely the possibility of abolishing consent. The exemption for passing an expert examination for natural persons who are authorised staff shall also be suspended, having at least 10 years of working experience. An exemption shall be abolished for the submission of an expert examination for natural persons who have worked on professional and administrative jobs in the field of environmental protection in the Central Authorities of the State Administration, inspectors with more than 5 years of working experience in environmental inspection tasks. It shall also improve the system of monitoring the work of the authorising officer and shall take away the agreed consent of the authorising officer and shall introduce a lifelong improvement obligation. In this way, we believe that the quality of the documentation will be raised and procedures for environmental protection accelerated and the practice has shown that the length of procedures themselves and their quality is directly related to the quality of the documentation. In accordance with the provisions of the European Directive on the control of major accidents involving dangerous substances, they are further in line with that exemption directive concerning the prevention of major accidents involving dangerous substances. In addition to the provisions mentioned earlier in the application of the Environmental Protection Act in practice, there was a need to apply or amend some other provisions, and this proposal for a law includes, inter alia, the following amendments and additions. The definition and concepts with the provisions of specific rules for the protection of nature in the part relating to Natura 2000 have been harmonised. Further clarifications related to the strategic assessment of the impact of synergies, strategies, plans and programmes on the environment have also been brought into line, in particular with the interpretation that strategic environmental impact assessments are not implemented for all EU funding plans. More precisely, the possibility of amending environmental protection measures and the problem of monitoring the environmental situation prescribed by the environmental impact assessment solution or a solution to the assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment. The process of agreeing on politics and preventing major accidents is simplified. It shall also ensure that environmental reference centres from the rows of institutions which are not financed from the state budget are defined and that, in accordance with other regulations, they carry out activities on the basis of which reference centres can be determined. Finally, in order to implement the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutes, funds, institutes, companies and other legal entities with public authority, this proposal for the Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which is attached to the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, shall take over all its activities and any other issues related to the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency shall be settled. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, the Sustainable Waste Management Act has been in force since 23 July 2013. Since its adoption, the law has been amended or amended once, which entered into force on 4 August 2017. This bill proposes other amendments and amendments to the law in the first order of compliance with the legal acquis of the EU and because of the observed need to improve certain provisions which have occurred in the practice of applying the existing law. Since the last amendment to the Sustainable Waste Management Act, the EU Regulation on the hazardous properties of HP14 waste relating to ecotoxicity has been adopted since 5 July 2018 and for which the legal framework for implementation in the Republic of Croatia is aligned with this proposal. With this bill, existing legislation is in line with the EU in the section relating to the European Waste Management Directive from the mineral extraction industry. In addition to that law implementation, it has been shown in practice that certain provisions have not been sufficiently clear and precisely laid down in certain procedures, and that this proposal requires more precise coordination and simplification of certain procedures in the waste management system in the part relating to the permits and certificates for waste management, the obligation to determine by-products and the removal of waste status, the jurisdiction of inspection services, the process of closing waste disposal, waste management, research, exploitation of mineral raw materials, the surrender of waste in the waste management centre and the compensation to local self-government units in which the waste disposal site is located. Furthermore, at a meeting held on 2 August 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Law on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions of funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority and entrusted the competent authorities of the State Administration with the implementation of all activities in order to implement the reduction in question. With this draft law, the Ministry of Environment and Energy shall take over the work of the Agency in the field of waste management. More specifically, this bill, among other things, changes the definition of a mobile device, the mobile device must from now on be located at the site of the waste, and not as stated so far as it is possible and discards the period of time of the licence of 6 months. Under two, it is added in the definition of the product manufacturer which is a payer to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, the expression of a natural person and the same applies to family holdings, since the OPGs are neither a legal person nor a craftsman, are considered as natural persons and thus enter into the compensation system. Under three, in the section defining by-products of animal origin by-products, it is determined that it is entered in the register by the national veterinary authority, not to be entered in the register of by-products in accordance with this law, so we exempt end-users from additional administrative procedures. Under Article 4 concerning the closure of the landfill, provisions concerning the order of closure of the waste disposal are added, and that provision is made for the minister to decide on the order of closure of the dump in accordance with the closure plan of the waste disposal and that the competent administrative authorities are obliged, on the basis of the decision of the minister, to decide on the termination of work and closure of the individual disposal. Under five, provisions have been added regarding the waste management centre that the local self-government unit and the public service provider must submit mixed municipal waste to the waste management centre specified by the waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia. That the company carrying out the operations of the waste management centre as well as the unit of local self-government and the units of the regional self-government which are the owners of the company operating the operations of the waste management centre are obliged to use the same price of processing of mixed municipal waste per tonne for all public service providers who, in accordance with the plan, are obliged to teach mixed municipal waste at that waste management centre. Under six, according to our communication with local self-government units and regarding the obligation to secure the recycling yard, a minimum number of residents in the local self-government unit have been increased which must build one recycling yard from 1500 to 3000 inhabitants. Under seven, the local self-government unit in which the waste disposal site is located shall be added to have the right to cash compensation for the use of the waste disposal site and that the payment obligation and compensation are other units of local self-government used by the waste disposal site concerned. Under eight, the possibility of composting small quantities of biowaste without permission is added if it composts up to 1000 kg annually at the site of origin and if compost is reused for its own needs. Under nine, exemptions are added for the establishment of waste management permits, disposal and waste disposal after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws for the same as pre-conditions will no longer be required to have a useful permit. An obligation for registered activity is also amended, e.g. Intermediation, transport, etc. The current provisions in practice lead to different interpretations, and this Bill proposes a new provision that the party must be registered for the activity prescribed by the Specific Regulation. Finally, provisions for a financial guarantee which determine that a person authorised to manage waste and a permit to manage waste from research, exploit mineral raw materials must have a financial guarantee or another equivalent financial instrument to be used by the competent authority in the event of a need for a period of authorisation. If they are provided with funds for the collection, transport, storage and processing of the amount of waste from the permit, construction or waste management facility from the research and exploitation of mineral raw materials after closure and for the recovery of land polluted by the work of the waste management plant from research and exploitation of the raw material mineral. Also, the current provision is being thrown out that for a mobile device, I apologize, there is no need to audit the license. Therefore, the audit will be mandatory for all licences. More specifically, the obligations of the communal directors are determined, so from now on, the communal director will be able to act on the person he finds improperly rejecting the waste. Infringement provisions add the possibility to treat natural persons if they carry out waste management without confirmation or authorisation, which has been left out so far. The deadline for adoption of the Management Plan for units of local self-government is also defined within six months of the entry into force of this Act. Until now, that deadline has not been set, and no inspection has been possible. Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The Act amending and supplementing environmental law, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. In addition to compliance with European practice and acquis, they aim, above all, to improve systems, on the one hand to monitor the work of the authorising officer and in this context, to document, but also to introduce a lifelong training obligation, restrictions, systematic authorisation exclusively to legal persons. When I talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act on the other hand, in addition to compliance with the right acquis of the EU, the amendment or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste, in itself, according to what I have stated, it aims, first of all, to improve the system of waste management in the Republic of Croatia, to clarify the ambiguities which so far existed in the legal basis or in the law itself, but also to clearly define the rules relating, for example, to mobile recycling yards, for example, to the conduct of municipal directors, for example, on a whole of other moments that we have cited here. I am sure that you MPs and MPs will have understanding or support both of these legal proposals. The fact that their changes and additions further improve the legislative framework regarding environmental protection on the one hand, on the other hand, the area of waste management itself along these lines, I stress once again, changes that go primarily in the direction of clear definitions within the system and its improvement, I believe that they deserve the support of all MPs and representatives of HS. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97992	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You have four replicas. The first line is Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97993	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Coric, we all know that by reducing the number, the Agency is a matter of rationalising state governance and of course there are some criteria. I'm asking you nicely can you say in short what main criteria were for HAOP to be placed on the list of agencies being removed? [[/Intruder: Would you like to reply? Yes, go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97994	So, respected Professor Dobrović, therefore, has the idea of joining HAOP with the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, above all, to be aimed at improving the efficiency of the work of both bodies that will become one. So what we want to do is improve the process. There are within the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency parts of the system that also exist at the level of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. And in this context, we believe that this is exactly how rationalising the common services will lead to better efficiency of the entire system, where the independence of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency in its, let's say, dislocated institutional status will not be questioned in the framework of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as it has not been brought into question in any way in the last year and a few days. I'm sure it'll be the same. And at a time when you were a minister. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97995	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97996	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. When it comes to the Law or to the Amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, you have decided on a provision relating to individuals who are no longer able to deal with this activity. The justification we got on the committees was that you only had one request. However, I do not see any reason since the Chamber has, therefore, pointed out that it would be good to keep it. So, no matter how much you had one request, I don't see why you still didn't leave it, so you made it possible for individuals to deal with such activities regardless of what was one request. So, you should always open up the beauty of opportunity, not because it was not of interest to delete it from the law because you only introduced confusion, you introduced a debate, we all got memos actually dissatisfaction, I don't see why it is in two readings, you can't return to the amendments and additions of the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97997	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97998	Mrs. Dark-Taritash, thank you for your question. So our reason for this treatment was, except in practice or in the fact that in the last few years, I don't know how many years there have been only one law since 2013, if I'm not mistaken, there was only one request that unfortunately has not been resolved positively. So we simply hold that the jobs in which it is done simply require a team, that a higher level of expertise is needed and that natural persons, or one person, cannot do it. The fact that certain HGK organisations or professional organisations have a different view, I would first and foremost tie it to the fact that, as a rule, such an organisation will protect the interests of its stakeholders or its members. In this particular case, therefore once again, it is about the elaborates, it is about the expertise required by these people, however, by the legal person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u97999	Thank you, too. Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98000	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you regarding the Law on Sustainable Waste Management and I ask you, are all those units of local self-government and county that work and act in accordance with the waste management plan, fulfilling all their commitments from the plan by 2020, ultimately going to be potentially retired and punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98001	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98002	Your Honor, I really don't see how the units of local self-government that have carried out their duties would have been penalized. I don't know in the context of which of the articles, or but I believe that in the debate later on, you will point out that, if there is any need for clarification, I would be happy to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98003	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98004	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I really appreciate you being here with us today, defending all these important laws, and I have one simple question. So, since the Republic of Croatia is relatively behind on recycling and waste disposal, or somewhere we're at 17% by the amount of separate waste, what are your estimates, where are we going to be in 2020?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98005	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98006	Thank you very much, counsel Jeckov for this question. It's quite ungrateful, we're not at 17% but at 27% at the end of 2016, so the circumstances are somewhat happier than the ones you listed. But by the end of 2020, my predecessors, at least that's how I experience Mr. Zmajlović and Mr. Dobrović, in creating a waste management system in Croatia, have done everything and I end up doing everything I can to welcome us at 50% level if I don't achieve it as soon as I get closer to this percentage. The fact that this year, at an earlier stage, we are slightly less inclined to build infrastructure gives us the right to hope that we will achieve our goals. So, precisely our activities during this year, the construction of recycling yards, the tender for education and informing our citizens, the tender for tanks, the tender for sorters that will be open by the end of this month give us the right to hope that we will all achieve the goals that we ourselves have outlined together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98007	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and will speak to Mr. Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98008	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I welcome the Minister and Secretary of State and Madam Assistant Minister, and I welcome both fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. So, we have a united discussion, I'm going to start with the Environmental Protection Act, the first one to be discussed. The environmental law, there are some termological difficulties, but I will refer to them when we speak under the next point of the Law on Transboundary Contaminant. Harmonisation with the EU's gains, so that's basically what this law is about, and that's something that needs to be done anyway, there's nothing to object to. But this second change that this law gives us is about the changes in powers, and we heard in the replica of Mrs. Parliament MP Mrak-Taritash, and I won't look forward to it much, I'm just going to say that I also consider it to be an unwarranted removal of or preventing natural persons, including craftsmen from dealing with professional affairs in environmental protection, so the explanation that came from the HOK, I think, quite justifiably, and the answer to such a single request should, in my opinion, be positive for the legislator. But at the end of the argument or at least at the end, we heard from the promoters that this bill respects the decision made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in August, somewhere in early August, which envisions the abolition of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. I must admit that this decision that I didn't hear right away in the summer was quite surprising or that it was really worth the surprise that I was going to try to explain. Namely, as I asked in the replica the respected minister, what criteria are there when this important agency is placed on the list of those for the shooting, then we got the answer that it is generally about one criterion for increasing efficiency and I think it is, in fact, rather shallow or weakly explained, so any institution can be justified. We know that it is not and must not be so, personally and myself and in the Independent Lists Bridge, we hold that it is necessary to change the number of agencies, that there are many that are really only for entanglement, that it is unclear what they are doing at all and that this is how we can testify that in early 2017 we launched a merger of two HANDE agencies, therefore dealing with mandatory oil and derivatives supplies and the Agency for Hydrocarbons. We also launched the abolition of CEI, or the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, which had very interesting media reports. So, there's a lot of work to be done here and we're certainly willing to support any rational decision in reducing the number of agencies. However, whether or not the removal of the HAOP can be justified, I do not think we should do this at all, and here I will try to explain why. Therefore, HAOP is either the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which was created by the merger of two agencies, is one report AZO Environmental Protection Agency, so it deals with environmental data, and the other is the State Nature Protection Office, which deals with nature and environmental management expertise in protected areas. This was joined in 2015, 2016 in HAOP and now we have one agency over 100 people, mostly all of them are highly professional prepared, of which 10.20% of the masters of science and also the doctor of science. So, which is why we shouldn't shut down the agency, I know you say no, not all the jobs they're doing we'll be doing inside the ministry. However, this is not a good solution because it is professional business and they are also different from administrative jobs, so the administrative apparatus or the ministry is you, and the expert body that prepares the bases for environmental protection policy is HAOP. So, two groups of jobs that this HAOP is doing, one is collecting data, so it's not about data that some figures and tables are to be placed in one folder and sent somewhere else, and there's state statistics going on than it's about an increasingly complex set of data being served year after year as services and environmental protection policies, so I remind you that we have a complex state of the environment to observe many unwanted consequences, because for the consequence, there are many conventions that are signed, international and that we are signatories and that there are a number of jobs to be done at a high level, so don't collect tables and pass them on to communicate with methodology, manage with those i.e. to refer those who are obliged to deliver these tables, therefore, it is a process that is constantly being served, complicated it so that I think that we must be unable to be against it should simply be done if we are responsible for the environment and if we want to stop how many negative trends that are recorded in the environment. The last is the Paris Agreement, therefore, and the struggle to stop the continued growth of therefore greenhouse gases, which, therefore, concerns many sectors. Therefore, reporting, data collection, is another basis for preparing management plans, so the assessment of the acceptability of nature-specific procedures to the ecological network, the monitoring of the state of reporting according to the directives on birds and habitats that have their own periodicity, which are all just unsimple, so HAOP is an agency that becomes increasingly important service to many parts of society, so not only to the Ministry of Environmental Protection but also to many others, and as regards transport and agriculture and all together, Croatian waters, so this is a more complex network. Finally, we have a roof agency in the European Union, so the European Environment Agency, which is a central expert body that monitors the state of the environment, which monitors the effects that the changed policy has on this state of the environment. So it's one process, so the effect of man on the environment through the sectors of policy change observation, and then we're going round and round to see if our changes are good enough to stop some things, that's one complex process, because they're not jobs for ministry officials, I don't mean anything bad about employees, but they deal with administrative tasks. These are professional jobs that are actually quite demanding, and that's why they communicate intensively with science, so there's a lot of science, and that's why it's good for people who work there to go to doctorates because it raises the quality of that institution, and then raises the quality of that institution, and then lifts the quality of the image that our representatives show in Europe or in the neighborhood, where we work, in the neighborhood, so towards the east where we teach, etc. So has it occurred to anyone to remove this European Environment Agency, it's not. So probably say so all the commission can do, no. So, it's not because they might call him crazy, no one would, it wouldn't occur to him to do something like that, and the European Environment Agency, therefore, has one network of agencies and of course one of the members and HAOP, so, the agency, which will legally disappear as the subject of this bill. To make it clear to you that the complexity, look at the European Information and Observation Network,... which is an increasingly complex network, an environmental information network, where it communicates on an annual basis with at least 20 complex data sets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all this is demanding, and it is therefore important to have an independent professional service. HAOP is also today a Croatian national expert body for environment and nature, there is a much clearer and better visibility in the environment, members, i.e. HAOP employees are members of many working bodies, thematic working groups, European Environment Agency, working groups of the European Commission, then HAOP is also a member of the network, director of the Environment Agency. One such meeting of course is held regularly and was in Zagreb, so much will be threatened by the mere disappearance of this and the recognizable body, therefore, by the entities to say the legal personality of the agency. She must remain present. That's very important. What is the number of legal documents, laws, regulations, regulations, regulations that need to be amended, who would know how to count it. If we change the HAUB, therefore, the very fact that it disappears will require a great deal of work to edit these legal documents, which may be the least important. At the very least, HALOB conducts the same activities that meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, these are obligations relating to gaining insight into the state of the environment, observation and many others, and these activities are financed from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, and these are very large amounts. I mean, I don't know that it can be found, that it's already more than 400 million kn of contracted projects that are scheduled for funding in the period, up to a few years, what would it even mean for that fact to end HALOB. What's important is, I may have mentioned it in the beginning, but these agencies, as a professional body, strengthen their importance. And we should do exactly the opposite. So, this Croatian agency free up the employment bans and that two-for-one regime and give them the possibility of hiring because the Europeans have money anyway and to do with full sails what is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. And that I don't know a hundred jobs fill what might be in line with the needs of the Republic of Croatia. This may not be how important a number is, however, it is important that Croatia as a Member State has a lot of work to do and that these are the people who are in place to do so and should enable them to do so, not tie them up, or shut them down to make that visibility go away. Look, I think it's pretty important who they represent. When all these reasons are considered and more, then I can't help but think that maybe this is the reason for the disappearance of HAP completely different. So, I remember well, when some investors were dissatisfied with the content of certain assessments, so the impact of certain procedures on the ecological network came to the ministry with a demand for this to change. The Minister may not, in any case, be touched on such decisions because that body must act independently and bring such documents on the basis of environmental insight. Of course, if the whole agency pulls in and all of its working bodies drag into the ministry that they become part of the system, practically part of the command line and that the possibility of affecting their work, I do not say directly, but at least indirectly, far, far greater. And it would probably mean reducing administrative problems for many problematic procedures in the environment, certainly, I believe that most Croatian citizens of Croatia will agree to avoid it anyway. Okay, I'll deal with the law now, that's all. amending the Sustainable Waste Management Act. Croatian Republic 2018 at 10 m When we look at our obligations, which we have drawn out by the Law on Waste Management of 2013 by means of an access contract, then it is clear that we have water, approximately up to the point of being picturesquely spoken. And this concerns the amount of waste that is even delayed, the problem of the landfill inconsistencies, i.e. the fact that the waste composition is under very low control, i.e. that the second is not allowed that technical protection measures are in place at landfills, which, of course, the good ones should be closed are either non-existent or insufficient. And finally, the very important goal, which in particular solves both previous ones, is the minimum recycling rate from 50% to 2020. The waste management plan adopted in 2017 has introduced a priority investment in infrastructure, which I can only provide for this recycling, and also solves the problem of disposal, which is a system for separate collection, that is, sorting plants, composts, reuse centres and functional recycling of the yard. So he's tasked with moving away from the idea, and that's the problem of waste being solved by the relationship of disposal, the waste management centers. So what was delayed was delayed, one day it stops and we go to waste management centers. That system, that paradigm, it's not a good idea. So, she's in college, and whoever thinks it is, she's going to find herself in trouble with meeting her goals, at least this one about recycling, because it can't be in the centers, that process the rest of the waste or local municipal waste or garbage that achieves recycling greater than what percentage? 50% none. We rely on it is clear on statistics, statistics is a tool that allows us to work with numbers like this, now we're at 27% I'm not really sure we're at 27%, but okay, it's official data, we need to get across 50% and we know who did it well and how he did it. I'm about to end it, I'm gonna break it now, so I'm gonna go on in person, i.e. individual exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98009	Thank you very much, as you have noticed the united debate allows for 20 minutes of debate. That's what we were holding on to. I didn't say it before, but I'm stressing it now. It was extended, it was all in the rules of procedure, and it was fine. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please. Mr. Shuker, please, everything was fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98010	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. In front of us, here we have in a united debate the amendment and addition of the Environmental Protection and Change Act and the addition of the Waste Management Act. First, a little bit about the Environmental Protection Act. I'm someone who's been remembering for a long time and not to say that I've been working for a very long time. So I first met with the topic of environmental protection and environmental impact assessment in '88. Mr. when it was a spatial mountain category. And that was the topic of spatial planning, and then the darkness of environmental protection, so not for one country so long ago, was the subject of what and how to solve. Somewhere back in '94. For the first time in the ministry, it was a ministry that was in charge of spatial planning, the first time a department was founded to protect the environment and four people were employed there. So '94. 4 people, I don't know how many employees there are at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but it says it in context, which was happening in space at all, which is the topic of environmental protection, which is the topic of how to deal with it, and I've spoken several times from this pay phone, and I'm going to say it again this time, this is the century in which people are going to deal with environmental protection, but it's going to be much more about waste, climate change, and we have a real opportunity to see not only big floods, but also great droughts. And the result will also be likely to be human migration from space that will no longer be for life. Likewise, the strategic assessment, first we had, normal, so to speak, one environmental impact assessment and then it was introduced into the legislation as a strategic environmental impact assessment. The strategic impact assessment on the environment was first launched in Europe by the Dutch, who did so, again related to spatial planning, i.e. when they made spatial plans through a strategic environmental impact assessment, it was estimated whether some procedure in the space was possible, or whether some space was more similar and different options were compared. So then, compared to that, there was a strategic environmental impact assessment when it started, to evaluate the entire Adriatic Sea, that is, to see what that potential is, how much the marina even suffers. How many marinas or ports of nautical tourism can be throughout the Adriatic without violating certain conditions. However, this has all been directed together over time, changed and some things, and we need to be honest with the aspect of environmental protection that was worth some 10 years ago today are different because things are changing, and certain knowledge is changing, and certain research is changing, and certain conditions are changing. This amendment and the addition of the Environmental Protection Act is actually related to professional affairs, it refers to a clearer definition of strategic environmental impact assessment and reporting system. When it comes to the professional affairs of the important changes that are and that is that a person is really excluded, we are on committees that on the Committee on Legislative Affairs that discussed all this, I personally think that in the GLAS Club we think it is much better to leave a little wider leprosy. So about who's going to be there, or you won't find it, you're going to see it, but when you open up a wider stick, open up a wider possibility of really doing jobs for people. When it comes to professional affairs then there is also the subject of expert examination, I really only use in a few sentences to say the subject of expert exams. We in Croatia have legislation and we have a tradition based on the fact that we have a college education that outside of university education we have compulsory traineeships and that we have professional exams for certain jobs. In other words, the university itself and the diploma for certain jobs do not give you the opportunity to do or limit them, but we also give you a professional exam. In doing so, we must be aware of the fact that this is not what the other European Union countries have, that they have in a different way, that they have even otherwise defined that there are a number of colleges and college educations that give them the opportunity to do jobs. In the context of Croatia relating to the situation that we are a member of the European Union, in the context of young people moving out, in the context of young people going out, we will find ourselves in another situation, in five or ten years let's say that we will agree, that some people will go back, that they will go back with experience and they will have great experience with us will not be able to work, but will have to pass professional exams. It's a tradition we have. We have an expert exam for public administration work, then you have an expert exam for these or those jobs. I think it's come, I don't think it's supposed to be a strict exercise on this bill, but otherwise we have a custom when we speak to each other in the assembly especially when the new Rulesman has given that there's no replicas to be displayed on behalf of clubs, every club comes, says what it has, we hear each other, we don't hear from each other, we're on cell phones, we're talking on computers or anything else. I don't think we should settle this on this law, but it's time to think about it. So when we give the conditions of some, we, when our people say for 10 years, will be dealing with environmental affairs outside, will be engaged in the Netherlands which is one of the countries that has gone far enough with this and which has no obligation of a professional exam, when it comes back after 10 years there will have qualifications, will have everything else, but will not be able to do these jobs we will force it to a professional exam. In this case, when a Dutchman comes to work for him, the legislation in force in the Netherlands is valid and not domestic. The time has come for you to see how many people are moving out, moving out highly educated to think about it in general, I'm for lifelong education, for people to be educated, for having references, for when you call a competition for some jobs to ask for someone to do something, but from this pay phone, let's not be wavering to our people. I repeat, when the Dutchman comes to do these professional tasks from the aspect of environmental protection he does not have to have passed a professional exam, our people have, by the provision of Article 12 you further increased you said that a professional exam other than the head of professional work must also have professional associates. I don't think the expert exam is bad, I think it's good, that it makes someone do something but let's think about that in the system, in the heads, the time has come to think of something. We, on the one hand, are declaring a lot of things, and on the other hand, no matter what we declare a lot of things on the other, we are doing certain restrictions and that is a restriction on our people. So, the young man finishes college, goes out, normally works after 5 years says I'd be doing something in Croatia now, we say I'm sorry for the expert exam. So that's one topic I had to say here because here and it started, so here it was before the provision that people who are employed in the state administration don't have to take a professional exam, if they have enough experience, you've given up on it, you know why it is, but there should also be some way to take care of it and be much more flexible than we are today. The law that is certainly under a great deal of public and must be a law on sustainable waste management. What we have declared what we are going to do, we know what we should do, we know that when you look at the analysis of each of us products at the level of a year some 380 kg of waste, we know that we have an obligation to recycle 50% of the waste and everything else and we know that the City of Zagreb is that helmet. The city of Zagreb is a quarter of Croatia or already a third of Croatia if the City of Zagreb does not carry out its obligations, which all Croatia has, compared to the fact that everyone agrees, can be absolutely lost we will surely have and pay for certain foames. And now the question is what to do here, on the one hand, we make an amendment to the law, but when we do change the law, we need to know why we're doing it, and we need to know what the meaning of that amendment is, and then it would still be convenient to apply that law. And apply it in a way that would be acceptable. Now I'm just going to do a progression on this one subject, unification of agencies. So this is the first ministry to come before a council with the law, where the government implements a decision, in which 50 and something, if I read well in the papers, the agency will be abolished. In fact, it will be abolished, in a way, that these agencies will enter the framework of the ministry. So that means about, taking over people, new systematization, new ones, so I'm only talking about technical elements, not about the essences, taking over people, new systematization, new ministry regulations, new assistants, or what's going to happen, and how it's going to be defined. So new papers, that means the cost is about three or six months. certain blockades and I'm quite different and different jobs that are related to it so I can tell you that you don't know when you want to do something then we're going to unify them a little bit so we're going to divide them a little bit, let's finally, at least try it 8-10 years in a certain way. I have to refer here to the inspection, we had a big inspectorate, and then we decided to transfer from the grand inspectorates to the individual ministries. So now we're from those ministries going back to the big inspectorate that's gonna be at the end of the year, so some of us are going, so some of us aren't going. All those inspections which are within the competence of environmental and energy protection, according to a proposal which is in public debate or which has been completed these days, goes to that large inspectorate. So when you need something, you'll have to work there. I always advocate the option, much better that you can manage your own processes because then you can answer for something. This way you'll be responsible for something and your hands will be tied, but what's here. When it comes to this amendment and supplementing the waste management law, there is a change related to recycling yards. To my question why was it actually increased to 3,000 centuries of recycling yard, then it was the theme field, because in principle with the theme field you should listen to people, you should listen to which problems they are. We have 556 units of local self-government, of course 550 plus the City of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb is absolutely different and in the City of Zagreb you have 17 city districts, each city quarter is by the number of centuries. And now according to that one city district, you have a recycling yard. What's important is that the recycling yard serves its purpose, that they really be something we use, in the way it is. Now we have two or three more topics I'd like to mention. One issue that is extremely important is the topic of construction waste. Construction waste, too many cities and too many countries with their construction waste are doing the following, using it, using it for new construction products. There is one provision of the law that speaks of a regulation to be made with the consent of the competent ministry from the aspect of spatial planning and construction, so it will be defined as a regulation, bound by construction products. What I have seen in some neighbouring countries, that the owners of the concrete factory, have received subsidies, turn their concretes into plants for the production of construction products from construction waste, and then he has that green stamp, the green seal, that state absolutely speaks of his relationship to environmental protection, relative to waste. I didn't see that. In the City of Zagreb, I saw some construction waste using Zagreb roads for those curbs. So it's possible to use the fertilization edges, and it's one project that could be at the state level, at the level of the energy efficiency fund, extremely important, actually to encourage it, because it makes sense. On the other hand, we with this construction waste, we really have a problem, what I've seen, I've seen asphalting, and then turning into something, but these are individual actions, that's something that should be more significantly defined. As far as the dump is concerned, I think it's a good thing that you've done it here, or that the minister can make decisions. Waste management centers. In the opening, I deliberately told the introduction about environmental protection and what had changed since the end of the past century. In addition to waste management, things have changed significantly in the environment in neighbouring countries, in EU countries, we are going so slowly, that they are already going three steps ahead, so when we get to this, we already skip one. So in the beginning, each county should have its own waste management centre. No spatial plan could agree with the Ministry of Spatial Planning if the spatial plan was not a location for the centre. Then it was actually a little bit obvious that it wasn't really like that. Now we have certain centers and now there's already a theme that we don't know what's wrong with it. We should know, when it comes to waste, what we do, how we do, how we analyze existing centres, see what happens to them, because in reality you have units of local self-government that are working, doing, and having units of local self-government that are doing nothing, that are waiting, they're going to drive something there, they're going to pay a little bit, and they're actually not dealing with it. Waste management is a serious story, I am often, since waste was one topic, which was extremely important, is still important in the City of Zagreb. It's back in '85. '86. '86. Or '87. My husband works in Germany, and I was at his place on the weekend, and I was carrying a garbage bag, and not with the garbage, and I put it in the container and the woman from the next house, and she was yelling from the next building, and I got so excited about what container I put it in. I had no idea what she was telling me, I didn't understand at all what it was about to realize that I was throwing it in the wrong container that there was a container in which I needed today or through the years I understood, that was the first time, so it was '87, the first time I met with that actually, and it was this solidarity where people were counting. We'll start taking a step when we're taken care of. So in the family... It's not possible the same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In family homes it's much simpler, in residential buildings, it's extremely difficult but to do that, you have to have education, you have to have elements and people need to know that what they do, they pay less. While we are all paying for the same thing, there will be no movement, and I really stress the special city of Zagreb. In the city of Zagreb, like our mayor, he ignores other things, so he ignores the problem that waste is a special story, that waste is added value, that waste should be dealt with but that is not how we do it. And here, since I have a lot more and I will continue for an individual debate mineral raw materials that are a particular topic in this law that was first placed on mineral raw materials, so I will do it for individual discussion and before the individual debate, something that is my eternal subject. When we don't know what to give a job to, then we give it to the communal directors. My people, let's be aware, Croatia has 556 units of local self-government. There are about 750 communal directors who are Soviets. Of these communal directors, about 150 in the city of Zagreb are they know what they are doing. I don't think the communal directors at this point are just breaking up marriages, all the other jobs we can give to the communal directors, we gave. Today we end up with the Household Act, who do you think will oversee if the camps are out of the area? The communal directors. It has the same history. Once they were all, there were 101 municipalities, the City of Zagreb was 14, so a total of 115 and all inspection was at the level of local self-government. The inspection was run by municipalities and then we put the inspection on state level and of course some city, to get him out, the mayor needs six phones and now we're actually at the small door of the communal director and that's the story when you let the ghost out of the bottle, you can hardly bring him back. The law that I had as a minister, which was the Law on Construction Inspection, I increased the authority for the communal directors because it was the basis for the re-inspection to go to the local level but then let's call it the right name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98011	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Zmajlovic is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98012	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are two draft laws ahead of us, two in the field of environmental protection and these proposed amendments these two laws can be said not to be significant, which would mean that they are dominantly aligned with certain European regulations, but in certain parts of those proposals, the law, existing laws and improve what is positive but also proof that these two laws are good as long as there is no serious need for them to change more significantly. First, I'll start with the Environmental Protection Act. Therefore, it is necessary to support those provisions of this proposal which go towards improving individual and speeding up, increasing the efficiency of certain procedures, in particular regarding the process of strategic impact assessment, strategies, plans and programmes on the environment, and also the authorisation procedure for performing environmental protection professional tasks, which can be supported by the grouping of these specific professional activities, which in some ways underlines the need for greater expertise of individual authorised persons performing these tasks. But here he would draw attention to what some previous colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned, which is that this proposal eliminates the possibility of the authority being also a craftsman who I do not think is necessary and I suggest that until the next reading, the promoter thinks about it. There is no argument that a craftsman cannot gather a team, so it is only the way in which a particular activity will be carried out, so the craftsmen can be employed and other professionals, as well as a company of companies can carry out that work if they meet those criteria prescribed here to obtain that licence or authorisation. So I'm talking about craftsmen, not natural persons, craftsmen as self-employed. What I also think should be more precisely prescribed and that's how we take away the agreed consent. Therefore, when we have an environmental impact assessment situation and this process itself is a very clear way in which the expert advisory committee will, if it finds that the documentation, elaborate or the study itself is not professionally justified or has certain shortcomings, so in this situation, it is possible to clearly identify this failure by the authorising officer. While other procedures such as assessing the needs of the evaluation, etc., elaborates, various elaborates by the authorities, there is therefore no process in which the ministry will determine that this elaborate is not of quality or that it is one reason to withdraw the authorisation. I think this is extremely important because, when it is clearly prescribed, that it is not only a discretionary right but that these criteria are clear, it will increase the quality of the embodies themselves, or the documentation produced by the authorities. As far as the provisions of this proposal are concerned, which goes towards the abolition of actually the Agency for Protection, Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency. I don't think it has to be bad in itself. But what's worrying here is that one such decision was made ad hoc. So without the analysis being presented to the public, which led to the conclusion that, with this agency's accession to the ministry, there will be an increase in efficiency. I believe that any such decision should result in an increase in efficiency, not only for populist reasons, trying to present itself that by abolishing, attaching, or by attaching to the ministry of individual agencies, it will reduce the efficiency of the bureaucratic apparatus. We will not get anything in this case, so the same number of employees will remain, they will join the ministry and now the actual functioning of the system will depend on it, only on how these individual functions that have been performed will be organised within the ministry. Although I repeat, it doesn't necessarily have to be bad. It's bad that this procedure itself is not transparent and that it could have been better presented to the public. As far as the Sustainable Waste Management Act is concerned, the same is true of certain proposals that go towards simplification of the process, especially as regards the issue of individual permits, I think we can support it. What is not clearly explained is in fact the abolition of the declassification procedure, so these provisions of declassification, therefore dangerous waste. So by erasing these provisions, it is unclear for me and in my opinion how this procedure will take place at all, whether it is permitted or not. Therefore, this should either be developed or some sublegislative act to lay down general criteria although in principle I support that the issue of declassification in each individual case, therefore it is not necessary to burden the ministry and that the ministry issues a solution for each individual procedure but, in principle, for individual processes, the criteria should be developed in order to make the economy more expensive. So there are certain situations in the economy where certain types of waste can be very simple to declassify where this waste, which is initially classified as dangerous, can be declared by simple procedures and then only the disposal, i.e. the recovery of that waste much cheaper. What the minister also said in the introduction, the opening statement noted that there are great challenges for Croatia and that in many ways we are late, that is correct. But that's not the reason for this law. This law has accelerated certain processes in this direction. I believe that one of the biggest challenges in Croatia is that this law does not fully apply. So you have certain mechanisms designed in this law just to speed up the processes that are related to those waste streams that are directed towards landfills to shift to other flows, which are recycling and other types of recovery. So these mechanisms aren't used. That's where I primarily think of the introduction of the so-called so-called. ... the fees, therefore, of the deferral fee to make the delay more expensive and less acceptable as the least acceptable way to dispose of the waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This increases the possibility of making certain other waste streams more economically cost-effective and sustainable in the long term in terms of recovery and recycling. So the real question is why these mechanisms are not being used. The second question that's somehow in the second plan today because it's already our public, and we're probably all bored with the waste management plan. I am deeply convinced that such a waste management plan, which was still adopted during Mr. Dobrovic's time he was a minister in this same government only slightly modified, is one plan that is in practice completely inconclusive. You have situations where things aren't defined until the end, where individual feasibility studies for centres that are generally envisaged and that the area is not defined includes such documentation, such feasibility studies almost impossible to bring. And over time, a series of documentation that has been made back 3 or 4 years, in which dozens or hundreds of millions of kunas have been invested at the moment, so to speak, of the expiry date and will have to be re-invested in the production of these documents for only one mere reason not to admit that waste management centres, so to the best extent possible and the intention that they are intended for Croatia are necessary. What could be the subject of the debate is whether we're going to re-account them so they're too much capacity to reduce the motivation to deter parts of waste from waste management centres, but no one has yet answered the question of how unprocessed mixed municipal waste will be solved. So we can separate both 50 and 60% and 70% in primary selection, you'll still have 30% left, which at this point for the RH utopia of that 30%. You can't put that 30% off without processing it mixed... Communal waste. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the centres and some kind of treatment of this waste for the Republic of Croatia are necessary, so more if you want to meet the obligations for which we are already, here for years, and this is primarily a reduction in the amount of biodegradable waste that ends today at landfills. But, well, that's already another topic that may already be for some thematic session. What, to go back to alone, the Law itself and perhaps some previous debates, which is a matter of construction waste. In this law, the issue of construction waste has been resolved. Of course, it's not in practice. Again because this Law does not apply. Therefore, local self-government units were obliged to provide processing sites and for the disposal of construction waste. In practice, this does not work because a number of regulations from other areas are primarily not adopted in the area of construction, in terms of quality on the other hand, on the quality of materials produced and used for recycling. So in order for you to produce a certain curb, there must be some standard and quality regulation from the recycling. So let's do it first, and then we can kind of force local self-government units, but also those who want to do this job to recycle waste, etc. And second, other important pillars are controls and inspections. Therefore, I believe that one of the conditions for issuing a valid permit or for a technical examination in a particular building must be the condition in which the waste has been treated, especially in the case of destruction, etc. Therefore, environmental protection inspection is not sufficiently capacitated to monitor any building in construction or when it is destroyed, but there are a number of other mechanisms that should prove that the waste that arises is therefore, so-called, so-called waste. construction waste during construction or destruction, that it ended up in that waste stream which is legal and from which the state or society will benefit, and not that such waste ends in a variety of depressions or in forests or in some other way or otherwise. I believe that, as regards the application of this law, the Ministry should also speed up certain processes, that is to say the least. As for recycling and the collection of special categories of waste, packaging waste, I draw your attention that at this point, the Republic of Croatia is in one legal vacuum. Therefore, concession contracts for collection and recovery are dominantly expired or expire these days or this year. So, you have one system that was built 10 years ago, which in 2013 by this law... waste, canceled. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the Law abolished concessions and provided for, so-called a semi-market approach organised by the Environmental Protection Fund, which should have increased efficiency and in fact made it possible to make a public call that would allow that so-called. Collectors, primarily packaging waste, are therefore considered, these different polymers, plastic packaging, glass, cardboard and packaging paper. For such collectors to make their bids, they are organised at country level and they are those interested in having as much as possible collected packaging waste as possible, so that it ends up in recycling. You now have a situation where small municipalities, small towns, small utility companies are expected to appear on the market of secondary raw materials and to rule with two or three plastic trucks that collect through the year itself. It's absolutely impossible, and whoever imagined it like that can't work. Therefore, what I insist on and appeal for this Law to be respected and implemented, and if such a system is not considered to be good, then let it be completely changed and that in another way, in a way, only the economy, but also other stakeholders, therefore, cities and municipalities can be treated accordingly. So, the deadline that expired seems to me in April of this year to call a public call, examines that only the Ministry does not respect this Parliament or this Law. So I'm looking for an answer to that question, which is why you're waiting for it. In my opinion, the answer cannot be that the Environmental Protection Fund, which we heard on the Committee, is not being organised or that it does not want to do so, etc. I think everyone in this country has to respect this law. If such a solution is considered not to be good, then let the Law itself be changed. In particular, what I would like to point out is that any changes to the Law relating to the modification of the prices or to the price of the public waste collection service, which reflects on units of local self-government or companies engaged in that activity, make sure that in one part of the units of local self-government the system is governed by concessionaries, that they do so on the basis of concessions concluded on the basis of the invitation to tender conducted and these Treaties are concluded for different periods. Any amendment to the Law also in some way affects the change in the terms of these Treaties and remains an open question as to how these amendments are regulated in the Treaty. Whether, therefore, the relationship between the amendment of this Law and the Law on concessions or the Treaties, so I suggest that, especially until the second reading and the fact that this practice raises quite open questions and given that the subject is quite expert, I think it should be resolved in advance by the law, that there is no later demand for a special opinion of the ministry, etc. In view of these remarks which I have both made and any shortcomings in this proposal, the SDP Representatives Club will be abstentioned on one proposal and we expect the Proposer to consider these remarks and suggestions which are well-intentioned and go in the direction, at least in my opinion, of the improvement of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98013	Thank you, too. Now in front of the SDSS Club, Mrs. Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98014	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, assistant. I will discuss amendments and additions to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. So, as we had already had the opportunity to hear, it was adopted in 2013, it was changed once, the amendments and additions came into force in 2017. The law regulates measures to prevent or reduce the harmful effects of waste on human health and the environment in a way that reduces waste. Environmental protection is becoming an increasingly important area of human rights particularly in the context of sustainable development and climate change that is brought into a direct and inseparable relationship with the right to health, life, water, food, adequate housing and other social and economic rights as set out in the new UN programme for sustainable development by 2030. Care for natural resources, the preservation of the planet from pollution, responsible production and consumption, some of the key sites of the waste programme and opportunities for further development of international and national standards in the field of environmental protection. The Waste Directive clearly defines that waste management is the primary prevention of waste and that, under the Sustainable Waste Management Act, measures are taken before any substance, material or product becomes waste. In line with the development strategy, Europe 2020, whose central aspect is the transition from an existing linear to a circular economy, an economic model that ensures sustainable resource management and the extension of the life span of materials and products, is in fact one of the objectives of the plan that implies the need for awareness of waste generation to the minimum extent possible and not only of waste resulting from production processes but systematically throughout the life cycle of the product and its components. It is important to know that, however, the Republic of Croatia is relatively lagging behind in recycling and waste disposal, with 78% of the waste still being collected underground and 74% is the share of mixed municipal waste. If by 2020 we do not reach the 50% & apos; separate collection of waste and do not close all open dumps, we are threatened with EU penalties for each kilogram of unseparated waste over 50%. And so for every active dump. After 2020, this percentage decreases, so we should not actually have a single kilogram of waste for recycling by 2030. That this story of penalties is very serious, it is faithfully depicting the fact that Slovakia had to pay an amount of 939 000 euros once and another 67,000 euros a day for unopened waste dumps or an example of Italy that paid 40m euros in fines. Also, the experience of countries that have passed this time shows that in an orderly system at best, the amount of separate waste can be increased by a maximum of 10 to 15% per year. We are currently as I said in my replica to 17% and the minister has corrected me and said to 27, we believe him, I would love to, and if we were 47, so since we're in the first question, I'm going to do a little crackdown on this question about how our neighbors solve it. So in neighbouring Slovenia, it has therefore secured itself the image of a green state or Ljubljana as a green capital. The Slovenians said we'd, at least 5 to 10 years in front of us, so they're understanding these difficulties we're going through right now. So, in the neighborhood on the site of a rehabilitated old dump, it's located, this is just one example, there's a golf course with 9 holes, whose guts are still coming out of the gases that are used by the decomposed system to power the waste management center itself. There is also a large recycling yard for different types of usable materials. He was transformed into a tourist centre and visited by between 800 and 900 citizens on a daily basis. With them, the principle of waste disposal is quite simple and logically resolved. Citizens are allowed free disposal of paper, glass, plastics and packaging while specifically charged mixed municipal waste and biowaste. A total of 650 underground stations are in the country's strict centre, each worth around 110,000 euros that residents open with special magnetic cards. Outside it, green islands have been set up in a wider city center while each building has a number of containers in charge for two types of waste that are charged. The accounts shall be made available to managers who are then assigned to the owners of the dwellings depending on the number of households, or the number of household members. Each family house still has 4 bins that are required to keep on private land, and the charge is made depending on their capacity and frequency of departure. Once a year, households have the right to free transportation of furniture and bulky waste, having one with a collection that is peasants around the city on a daily basis. This is how they do it in Slovenia, and perhaps we should just turn around and apply this Slovenian model, because the Republic of Slovenia is one of the 14 member states for which it is doubtful whether we will reach the target of 50% municipal waste by 2020. The Commission has decided to help us, as well as other countries, so a total of 14 through technical assistance from structural funds and exchange of best experiences. The Commission states that countries should do more so that their populations and economies can benefit, benefit in fact from that so-called. The circular economy. The waste management plan has been adopted and the European Directive, which has obliged local authorities in municipalities and cities to increase the amount of separate waste, has led some to announce the correction of waste prices. What we consider positive in this legislative proposal is that the modification of the provisions relating to the processing of waste by means of a mobile device, so as to specify the definition of a mobile device, is added in the definition of a product manufacturer as a natural person, for by-products, the regulations of the European Union which define certain waste as a by-product. Furthermore, with regard to the closure of the landfill, provisions on the order of closure of the waste disposal are added and, therefore, the minister makes a decision on the order of closure of the landfills by special decision in accordance with the closure plan of the waste disposal. We also find it positive that the competent administrative authorities are obliged, on the basis of the Minister's decision, to make a decision on the termination of work and closure of the individual landfill. In practice, it has been shown that certain provisions are not sufficiently clear and precise, i.e. they have not precisely prescribed certain procedures, and that these draft laws are more precise in determining and simplifying certain procedures in the waste management system in the section relating to the authorisations and certificates for waste management, the obligations relating to the determination of by-products and the abolition of the status of waste of competent inspection services, the closing process of waste disposal, waste management from research and exploitation. I would say something more about the obligation to secure a recycling yard or to increase the minimum number of units of local self-government from 1,500 to 3,000, and right in this part of the SDSS Club, there is no doubt that certain rural areas occupy large areas but with a small number of inhabitants and a small amount of waste, this kind of recycling yard would in fact not be economically sustainable because of the large cost of small municipalities with a small number of households and a small amount of waste. On the other hand, without recycling yards, waste must be driven further up to 200 km, requiring transport costs and payment of charges for the use of the second dump or recycling yard, such an example characteristic for us of the Municipality of Dvor, which extends to 504 km2 according to the last census of 2011 has 6,233 inhabitants. Here are some suggestions and the remarks we wanted to point out in any case the SDSS Club will support the proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98015	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dragani Jeckov, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98016	I thank.../incomprehensible/... welcome those present by the Minister, Secretary of State, assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll look back on behalf of the club to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that we at the IDS Club, the PGS, consider these amendments to be adopted as the minister himself said only for reasons of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the directives of the European Union. Let's say the changes that are suggested are a formal type. But we are interested in what these changes of this law will bring into practice. Whether these changes will contribute to meeting the basic condition foreseen by the waste management plan by 2020, which is up to 50% of the waste, and to delay 50% of the waste. We're all seeing it now and let's face it, it's gonna be impossible to come to that. It is impossible to achieve the fulfillment of the plan because we are already dangerously late, so from the intended 12 centres that are designed to build the plan so far are built 2 centers that are Marišcina and Kaštjun and are unrealisticly expected to build the other 10 in the next 2 or 3 years. It is true that in Croatia, although we do not have centres, there are some units of local self-government where we have positive examples that work well and that meet the terms of the plan, but I am interested in one other important thing that the minister may not have answered, and these are penalties i.e. Penalties. Penalties will be paid for failing to meet the conditions prescribed by the plan i.e. The EU directive now raises the question of how Croatia will resolve the payment of these penalties and whether it will be from a common national budget filled by all citizens of the Republic or only those who have failed to meet the conditions, whether it will be transferred to units of local self-government. Is it again the desire to punish those who have shown their willingness and responsibility to meet their obligations regularly and regularly and to suffer for those who have not done so so far? I think that such practice should be put to the end in Croatia and that we must make sure that this does not happen. So to punish one for missing another, I don't think it's correct. I would like to point out the fact that it has been recently announced that the World Bank has calculated how we are threatened by penals of 42,000 euros a day. We are witnessing that Greece and Italy are already paying the same because they have not established a sustainable waste management system. And I'm asking again are we really just following Greece in this negative I'm going to say, projects? The question arises who is to blame for not meeting it by 2020, the minister said in his opening statement that he, like previous ministers, had done the maximum to establish this waste management system and to achieve those objectives, however, I will not say that nothing has been done but has been done much, however, we are far from the goal. The fact is that just by any change of the minister, by changing political options, the new ministers imposed new strategies, new plans, and not trying to keep something good from previous strategies, but the only achievement was that I was going to say, certain, unrealistic and at that point, unfulfilled ideas, and the result was precisely the delay in realisation and this delay would ultimately be paid by our citizens. It should be said that each change of the 2013 plan, at national level, required units of local self-government to coordinate their plans and it is difficult to fit and change something when you are already in the phase of some implementation. So there were no transitional provisions, and there was always a provision or regulation waiting there so that units of local self-government precisely because of frequent changes and on time-limited regulations and provisions were delayed with the implementation of projects. So the question of who will pay, and how will they foam when they impose it on the EU? The next issue, the minister mentioned a depositary fee would be introduced. I don't think that definition is quite clear. I'm setting up exactly which dump site is being brought to because we've also defined by that law that existing dumps have to be rescheduled and closed. Staying means only those dumps that call biodegradable surfaces within the centre. Whether this fee applies to these new biodegradable landfills and if so, who will determine the height of that fee, whether it will be unique in the entire Republic of Croatia or whether that fee will depend only on that centre or not. for the area covered, but an important question of who will determine that fee, the height and the fee. My opinion is that the old dumps that are to be closed, they no longer need compensation, and these new biodegradable dumps, I don't think they're the classic type of dump, but they're part of the technological process of the centre itself, and they shouldn't pay for it. The only thing you mentioned in your presentation is that you suggest the same price for all providers of one area's services. Today we have an example in Istria where waste is delivered directly by the service provider or to make it clear to everyone, the municipal company directly on the scale of the centre and you have the waste that you bring with the vehicles of the centre from the loading stations. How are you going to set the same price because I think it's two companies doing the same job? Next thing we know, it's not defined, and surely that's the big problem is taking care of and using SRF fuel. So we were still there in 2005, 2006, opting for MBO technology, and then we knew that the product of the whole process would be at the end of the SRF. Today, we have two centers that produce this SRF, this SRF is embalming and lays out warehouses in the open. So we lack strategies and plans to manage this waste and strategies and plans in the Republic of Croatia to commit and to energy waste exploitation. That's why, except for the centers that produce alternative fuel, it was necessary... to build and need infrastructure i.e. Energy plants where this fuel could be used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the infrastructure at national level has not been prepared, it has not been built and has been planned, placed and used by the SRF is left to centre operators without a clear national strategy. We are witnessing that we are constantly negotiating and investigating the possibility of finding a solution to the use and placement of SRF, especially from the aspect of the price of that service, since it directly affects the price of waste processing in the centre. Until we find a solution, the centers are forced to balm and store at the centre's location, and now the question is when and how much space they will have. Because solving the SFR in some other way, which today is not accessible in the Republic of Croatia, leads to an increase in the prices of the services of the centre itself, i.e. We go directly, we go into an increase in the price our citizens have to pay. But at a government meeting in Pula, the government ordered the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection to conduct a study by the end of 2019, which will analyse, assess and propose measures to establish a waste energy recovery system in the Republic of Croatia. That's where it turns out we're late again. I mentioned 2005 when we knew, and now we're 2018 and we don't have those studies yet. So we're late, just because we don't have those studies. Given the dynamics of the establishment of a waste management centre and the dynamics of waste fuel generation, for which no market placement is currently seen and given the fact that for the entire waste management system it is mandatory to apply the order of the waste management championship, which includes energy recovery before final disposal. It is necessary to speed up the definition of this part of the waste management system, in a way that is already in 2019. .g define solutions. It is also important to note that significant funds are being invested today in wastewater treatment systems. I connect it and we make the same mistake we did with the waste. So today we invest, big investments happen, right in the disposal of waste water, in the treatment of waste water, and we know today, that the product from that purifier is going to be mud. Today, however, we do not have a defined mud management system, which is mentioned, the study should also include. So we'll be back in a couple of years as we are now having problems with the SRF today you've already got them, but in a few years it'll be a much bigger problem in which to solve the mud from purification of wastewater. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the problems that our utility companies face regarding the management of selected factions. Something the predecessors talked about. So today in the area of the Republic of Croatia we have authorised companies, for which the first option was to call a concession award tender, however, it is today on the free market, they must register for it, which we will say take over with the payment of municipal companies and separate factions, specifically plastics. Today, utility companies have cubes and cubes or tons of recycled plastic in their backyards, because customers, i.e. Not the customers, but those who take over the plastics have set high prices, so today the utility is more paid to import that plastic to the NBO plant and to take care of it there because it's about 520 kn per tonne, while these companies are asking him to pay him between 800 and 1,000 kn. Normally it depends on the length, the length of the transport. So the question is, in what way, does this law, whether certain provisions and regulations, mean the ministry solve the problem. But this is solved not only by plastics, but also by the price of paper, and we promised all citizens, by introducing a new waste management system with as much separation and separation as possible, that we would simply have the same or lower prices and have some benefits. And today, on the contrary, communals have to pay for this recycled material that can be recovered to pay dearly. And that normally results in increased costs for citizens. Next because there's an intelligence and trust in the ministry's intelligence, what we're meeting today on the ground, which is a delay in the competition. In particular, for containers for separate collection of waste, I think that this process should be speeded up, in order to get the opportunity to separate and select waste and the next problem that is late, and these are competitions for the construction of the sortery, in order to achieve what fellow Doborevic said, that as much as possible, the less waste mixed into the plants, i.e. The waste treatment centers. As a conclusion, I would say, that regardless of the significant investment in the waste management system, and what is said in the education of our citizens, how to deal with waste, and all with the goal of raising awareness about the care and protection of the environment, the human health of our citizens, that a lot has been done, however, have not been achieved by those expected results, and here again I am coming to the start of the question of paying for the penalty and whether it will again go to the burden of both the good or the bad ones. It remains a normal open question, whether this bill will achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98017	I thank my esteemed colleague Tully Demetlik. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98018	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister of Cooperation. I think it is good that we have united these two Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act and on Sustainable Waste Management because we see that these topics are connected and we see that the experiences of the leader or former leaders of local self-government and how they correspond to what has been proposed here through the amendments of these two laws. And I personally want to say that we support the HDZ Club and one and another Law because we see that the minister really, I said that today and on the Committee, tried. He was caught in one procedure quite well in a way that he wanted to carry out all the things that once or many tried to avoid. And that's why we're having this debate today. The story of environmental protection and the story of sustainable waste management is long-term stories 10, 20 years old, many ministers have changed, and when we talk about environmental protection, more or less there are procedures known... It means that we are trying to reduce the consent of all these strategic environmental impact assessments, not in the case, but in the number of some consents because we have really spent both time and money to get to the point that we can do a certain procedure... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the moment the local leader hears that he has to do an environmental impact study, he immediately begins to count on how much time it is and how much money it is and when he's going to bring a spatial plan, when he's going to bring in all the other acts or get a building permit for a simple procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know. Or perhaps a state agency such as Croatian Waters or any other agency that has to or build objects in nature, and in some ways we have to admit that we are sometimes overwhelmed and overprotected. Because when we include everything we know from protection, from environmental networks, I don't know about different national parks, protected... etc. Sometimes when you switch it off, you realize that you don't have any space within your own local self-government that's not under a certain level of protection. And therefore, indeed, here, thank you Minister for recognising that moment and trying at least somewhat to speed up the procedures that should be followed through the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Of course, there are also some individual, individual articles that need to be asked about the profession. There have also been some speeches on the Committees about these individuals who cannot perform less complex tasks, professional affairs of environmental protection and nature. We've heard that there are one or two of them, and that should have changed the monitoring system, the way in which the environment was displayed. It's just that every part of the law is touching some kind of procedure that we've been going through. Sometimes I say surprise as a leader that we have to do an impact study or an environmental impact assessment plan, so first we have to go through certain procedures after the report to even go... in space, in order to even go into changes and add to the spatial plan, so let's make that spatial plan, so now we have to see what it's all about, so let's see how it ends. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's simple, a lot and too much time. I'm going to talk a little bit more about waste management because, I said that again today, I'm going to repeat it on the board. I think that both officials and ministers, from state secretaries, assistants, but further local and regional levels when we talk about inspectors, have become aware that there are opportunities for improvement in this area. To see where it was from 15 years ago to today and to make a law that should be a little bit different to standardize and allow us to start off, to start dealing with the waste in a different way and not to narrow down all the waste management stories in how the waste management centers work, but to see if we have some problems at the very beginning. And we certainly do, because the fact is that as local leaders, we've already been warned and I think the state is doing its job correctly. So, uh... ensure a certain level of funding through the Fund, through the Ministry, secure procedures etc. And then we get to the local leaders who need to do something or won't do anything. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that's the question we heard here, how do you run local leaders to do something about it? Today I asked how many waste management plans we have at local level. I heard about 400. So we don't have a record for about 150. That's disturbing. Because if... some or we had to bring everyone on their representative council plans by the last second this year, I think it's time that everyone brought it and that we can't look at those who aren't and leave them to ourselves that they're still thinking they're not mandatory. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we have to bring the prices by 1.11. again as commissioners, the mayors who mostly go in the direction that the price of the waste disposal must be collected because new imposes have come. Now we look at those who go in kind of front and look at those who actually don't work enough and wait for certain reactions from the state again. I don't know why they're waiting if the state has made it clear what everyone's doing. And then we bring the story down to that, I don't know, there's no waste management center in some county, and then we don't have to do anything locally. And that's how he tries to function. I think that when we look at the transitional and final provisions of the Sustainable Waste Management Act where penalties are prescribed, they are quite large, they are not without significance. We have fines ranging from 300 to 700,000,00 kn for those who are completely reckless when we talk about how they threaten the environment, so we have local self-governments from 100 to 500 thousand if they don't usually deliver the Report. What are they even doing? In space means waste management we have fines from 100 to 400 thousand, and then for mayors, especially punishments. So the state has somehow set up the system. However, the control system is obviously still not strong enough to trigger those who are somewhat lagging behind in this whole story. I think there should also be an intrinsicity of this law so that those who really want and have been working for 10 years on waste disposal and have really come up with quantities that are now almost 50% apart. And almost no longer and no room for major advances in the sense that reducing the amount of mixed municipal waste will be punished as well as those who have done nothing and in the first year can reduce 20% or 30% as soon as they start to select or do something to reduce such resistance. The second problem I see is a little bit of statistics, i.e. The way we use the figures we put into waste management plans, because the fact is that at landfills, many people don't have scales. So we don't know the exact quantities that we have at certain landfills but we have the quantities that were entered by legal persons who deal with these municipal companies and they're relevant. There may be some problems when we go a little different, as the law provides to manage the entire waste story. This law I say is really in its part trying to track everything that has been done so far. Although I was a little surprised by some former ministers who had completely forgotten that they were ministers, and then, given that they also ran an agency like the Environmental Protection Fund, they know what they left there, and now they're wondering why there's something or isn't in the whole area, and especially, I don't know, public calls for car purchases, buckets, etc., for energy efficiency, i.e. facades, etc. when they spent a little more time than they had to or should have. So looking at what the current minister is doing with his associates, seeing as he has the possibility to see what the fund is doing in the past year and a half as a member of the board of directors, I think he's made a pretty big step. The fact is that we currently have I think two or three loading stations that are in the end, that trying to finally take control of Mariščina's waste and Kashljun put in the right full function, there are problems, we can't say that we haven't tried, I know by myself, means that in 12 months we had to shut down all the dumps on the islands and in the entire Primorje-Gorski County by taking the waste to Mariščina and that this system takes at least a few years to work. What we certainly see is that we miss that ending, finale, in the part where we use everything we separate. So we don't have enough manufacturers or those who can use separate waste from plastics, glass, I don't know, paper etc., that there's not enough choking, especially in the season when we're talking about the coastal part of Croatia when you have a huge load on the entire infrastructure and even on the waste dumps that we just don't get to take care of all the cardboards, all of the waste, all of it out of the way and spend it somewhere, and we're having trouble creating then some small dumps because the end-user simply isn't able to take advantage of it. And so the problem and the plastics, the glass goes in a good way. Other types of rubber waste, as I know, white technique, metals, etc., it works. What is a major problem in local self-government, ministers, it is a huge waste, large waste, especially in the coastal part, every year we witness a number of investments in tourism, in many buildings. And just every few years or every year certain houses restore their own facilities and it creates really one large amount of waste from closets, from wood, from openings of various, aluminium, etc. And there's a problem with that care. It's just sometimes when you come to a real dump, you see what these relationships are between mixed municipal waste and large waste where they're large, really large quantities. And, of course, construction waste that also monitors these investments especially in tourism. So I think we have to react pretty quickly, and when we see that there's simply no other possibility that we don't have any wild dumps especially building waste because we don't have the space to take care of it. The municipalities mostly don't, but the state has really, really state-owned land where something temporary can be solved. I think we should go in the direction that the state here helps the municipalities a little bit, and they should be assigned spaces that can be arranged over a few years and become really real spaces or recycling yards for construction waste. As far as recycling yards are concerned, we support this increase in numbers, this minimum population from 1500 to 3000, I am from one small local self-government 1200 inhabitants and I think that we are satisfied with mobile recycling yards and that, as one island large, with nearly 9,000 inhabitants, we are sufficient to have one recycling yard that, with a sorterhouse and a loading station after the recovery of the dump, can mean to ensure proper disposal and disposal of waste from the island. I think that's our goal, I think that should be the goal in every local self-government, the question is the motivation of local leaders in how to approach whether or not to engage in this story. A lot of people think they're avoiding it because they know it's a final, final move that has to make an increase in the cost of waste transportation. It's something that, of course, always wants to avoid, but it's inevitable. I think that someone, or whether it's going to be done by a state or local self-government, I think that the penalty system or the reward system must finally be put right through the law. Those who have really made the effort to do it right and progress, and for 10 years now, they really shouldn't be punished, and there we have to do a division through certain articles, and those who aren't motivated or want to do anything must be forced to do something, because it's too dangerous to really want to do anything about waste management, but we approach in the easiest way we've had tens and tens of years, find the best position, we're going to start creating a certain pile of garbage and thus work without any control or do nothing to make that move happen. All in all, I think it's quite good progress made by this Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on State Waste Management, in all the areas that have been seen to be able to make some progress in waste management. It's been a lot of talk about the communal director and whether he's professional enough or not, that he can write a certain level of punishment or start a certain procedure, I think he can because so far he's had to mean he hasn't been left out of the law, with now that he really sees someone doing something, and he shouldn't have had the authority to write it in the form of a certain penalty or to initiate a procedure, regardless of what we sometimes think the communal directors have too many obligations, out of traffic, public areas, gardens, all the other possibilities, so far here and waste, I think we should go in that direction because life and waste happen down at the local level. The state has created truly frameworks within which it can function, how much we will function depends on ourselves individually, each of us or every local leader or politician, and I think that if we are to achieve certain tasks that we are given, in terms of this separate waste and recycling that we will have to start thinking differently with these penalties. Not because I want someone to punish me or not to punish me, but we just see that some people don't want to do anything and then put everyone in an unfavourable position, and we all have a bad result together. Here, in that sense, once again I say we support one and another law, I think that they are lifelike and that they go along with some of this experience or what we have noticed on the ground and that they are improving the existing system or existing laws that have governed it, and that by the second reading there may still be certain opportunities that this debate should consider because I see today we are really discussing very well, in the afternoon, but quite truly committed to one and another subject properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98019	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Next debate on behalf of HNS MPs' club, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98020	Thank you, Vice-President, Honorable Minister, Secretary of State, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the HNS Club will support the amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, and I will focus most on this second law on changes and additions to sustainable waste management. The basic law was passed in July 2013, practically five years ago, and certain shifts were made in the implementation of both the law itself and that fundamental fundamental intensity which is the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, however absolutely insufficient. I don't think that's just my assessment and evaluation, but more or less of all, we have a lot of examples from practice itself. Namely, why am I saying that? It's obvious that when we have it, we get a deadline, then we always say 5 to 12, then I try to make up for what we're not in the past of time. It is the responsibility of all not personally to ministers and ministers and governments and to all who were stakeholders, or in the implementation of these measures and the law itself, so that there is no need to call on anyone or to commend anyone in particular. What is, I will return in 2013 when this law was in the parliamentary procedure, my criticism was that the pretentious existing law, although we supported it, because there was no alternative at the time, but the criticism in terms of affirmative criticism means that it was over-obsessed, pretense, and proved now after a 5-year course that in certain parts it was very difficult to implement. These changes are positive and are precisely on the trail of what was seen during the adoption of the law and during the implementation of certain things should be corrected, simplified and operationally resolved to make the law easier to implement. The law's intensity, the reduction in the amount of waste, as successful as we are in this, both in the introduction and in the name of the proposer and on the committee itself, has been said that we have certain different criteria of approach in terms of this, and the fundamental thing is that the year on which we refer to each other compared to the previous year or year before it was impossible to measure or not at uncoordinated landfills or at centres these two centres that have not been installed, the amount was estimated. In order not to pay for the penalty, I trust the ministers to have a strategy, we should focus, and that should be our goal, primarily big cities, the law of large numbers, means Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, I think it is a focus, and if that level succeeds there that the Republic will not be in a situation that we have to pay for the penals. This does not mean that equal access should not be taken to all other local self-governments, so they were the municipalities of 1,000 inhabitants or the City of Zagreb in particular. What I will certainly refer to is that practical part of the implementation of this law is primarily about the waste that arises in households and which local self-government and local municipal societies have the most problems and which they face the most. I also think statisticalally viewed waste that we can categorize as industrial waste means from companies of industry, that it is more or less covered and that it works in an acceptable and satisfactory way. We are in the Republic of Croatia, most of which rose around the waste back a year ago when the regulation defined that on 1.11.2018 the deadline for the regulation to be implemented, or when local self-governments have to start operating on new decisions on waste management, the way it will be collected with new prices and everything resulting from the decision. It's always, unfortunately, that's how it is. So, 5 to 12, I hope that there won't be 12 and 5, though regardless of what over 100 and some units of local self-government have not been recorded that they've made a waste management plan, I'm not sure, I'd like to be wrong, but I don't think over 50% of local self-government units are fully functioning and the waste management regulation itself is inconclusive. You may know better data, but I think it's practically inconclusive. These changes and additions, I certainly said in the introduction that they are on the verge of improvement, however, when you have a law that is exaggerated which is simply complicated for the implementation and application itself, then it is difficult to correct and operate with changes and supplements. I'm also on the board, I'm going to take that right, this is not a criticism, this is simply a finding that comes from the experience of 2005, in some way I've been fighting as the head of the waste and since the period of establishment of public institutions, in the period since 2010, we've recovered certain landfills, led them to some level of acceptance of management, by law, the waste is being delayed in a far more high-quality way, the selection of waste, paper plastics, glass, it's been done since 2008. So when we talk about this part of the waste reduction, I ask myself a question, and I believe there are a lot of people here, not only here who are the leaders and outside of local self-government who are asking themselves how much more we can reduce the amount of waste and whether we're going to be retired for it. It's a question I wish we could get an answer to because I've been saying, since 2008, I've been speaking specifically for my city, we've been decommissioning waste. Large waste, specifically every citizen at the invitation of the municipal company comes to his yard, drives huge waste, selects it, does it go to metal, does it, means it goes further to those who are authorized to move on, means we try to reduce the amount of waste that is not delayed in nature and we have been successful in that because since the Green Cleanup campaign was launched, we also see on record that we have virtually reduced ourselves to those quantities of wild dumps that are practically asking the question of more purpose. It is purely a participatory place mainly of construction waste for which unfortunately we do not have solutions, and we also expect the ministry to update this topic and in some way some initial means that would be to support and assist local self-government to go with the construction of a recycling yard of construction waste, it is necessary. Especially seen in the last year, a year and a half when we have an investment boom, not only on the Adriatic, as counterpart Boris says, but also in the continent and simply do not have an adequate disposal of construction waste or recycling yard to recover the construction waste as much as possible. Now, Minister, something concrete, article 20 of the amendment, I'll read it for the sake of maybe making it easier for me and for my colleagues. So in Article 41 of the Law, paragraph 5 is amended and reads: The City of Zagreb and the unit of local self-government in which the dump is located, have the right to cash compensation for the use of waste disposal. Furthermore, the 6th mandatory fee item says where a local self-government unit that is a waste disposal user is the second unit of local self-government. I simply stress this for a reason because it is not even in line with the principle of law polluter pay. Because that part means local self-government, the local self-government unit is a polluter. Furthermore, when we look at Article 33, you have had changes, that is, Article 16, Article 33 is amended and it reads: the Ministry Agency, but I will remind you of point 13, the representative body may by decision determine the user of the service referred to in Article 30, and the user referred to in Article 30 is a citizen, point 1. The payment of a dedicated fee in accordance with the construction programme of the municipal infrastructure management of municipal waste, etc., which is calculated by the account referred to in point 18 of Article 30(1) of this Act and states, means the decision referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article detail the purpose of which the revenue provided for in this paragraph means which representative body, so I am now asking the question how JLS is based on what. In particular, in my JLS, there is an uncoordinated dump where citizens from other municipalities and cities are put off. By what logic does the second local self-government pay me a fee let's say this purpose fee, what logic? I'm just asking for clarification maybe I don't understand, Article 30. I refer to point 1. who's the user and says it's accounted for through a public service account, so public service is accounted for by a municipal company that manages the depository entrusted management, it exposes accounts to citizens in the area I don't know Lepoglava, Bednje and other units of local self-government. Based on what to charge the city of Leprechaun, the municipality of Misery, etc. to their budget. Maybe I don't understand. We are also in a public debate I have proposed an amendment just to make it more detailed, but also to open the space. Namely, the practice so far was that local self-government in whose area the uncoordinated dump was harvested from other JLSs through the price of care, so public services will call it a special rent, which built a municipal infrastructure to improve living standards within the settlement, in an environment of the settlement where the uncoordinated dump is located. It also obtained municipal infrastructure, a pardoned municipal equipment in that part of which JLS can obtain, may be based on the waste disposal law, so the proposal means that the purpose of the fee referred to in Article 33 of the existing law is extended to pay the cash compensation for the use of JLS disposal in which the waste disposal area is located for the purchase of equipment, the collection also means for that equipment supplied by local self-government. Unless, for the sake of economic sustainability of waste management, the unit price itself is unacceptable. But I'm asking a question, haven't we been able to by now? Now we can't. By applying this Regulation, the Regulation is out of force, the new Regulation has not been adopted and cannot be because it is not in accordance with the regulation, that citizens who are so far means in an environment in the part of the settlement where the uncoordinated dump that has been recovered, two tapes one on which it is delayed, we no longer have the possibility to free the payment of waste disposal. And we are no longer able, and before that we had the means to raise their standard, the communal standard, not to pay them compensation because we paid them by the basis of the law in a 500 m radius, we compensated for the reduced value of their property. I would ask you to answer these questions, meaning whether you can free yourself from the service of paying for the collection of waste in the area of a particular settlement by virtue of the decision of the City Council and whether, if I am well interpreting this fee because there are conditions, there should be little correction for it until the second reading and Article 30, perhaps, or in the amendments to Article 16. So, I'm talking about a non-harmonised dump, which was said on 31.12.2018, should be closed. We have to be in the process of getting permission, we have to because we have nowhere to go with the waste, not just us, but over 40,000 residents. What here and finally, I won't be long, I would ask the ministers to think about it, I don't think it should be a problem I wasn't talking about rent though I believe there's a reason and regional centres depending on and on the vicinity of the settlement because we have local self-government getting water rent, rent for mineral raw materials, not to say oil etc. What's the difference? Those who live near the dump, and they have no right to it from all these others. So, it's not about the fact that my colleague Zmajlovic on the board said that it was some kind of political I don't know the trade, I didn't experience it that way or in practice it was possible if the representative body made a decision and with the agreement of the other local self-government means there couldn't be political compatibility to create some kind of monopoly, I don't see the reason and I believe that it's not contrary to the principles of polluting wages and that it is in line with sustainable, economically sustainable waste management. When uncoordinated landfills close then cease to resuscitate uncoordinated dumps, then stop paying the rent, pay for the remaining monitoring that has taken over local self-government, pay for monitoring, which is not some excessive price, but I say you'd like to think about it in that part and I think that until the second reading we have enough time to study it even more. In the first we will support not on condition but please understand because the opportunity is to maybe correct some of the mistakes that happened in the period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98021	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Boric expressed his view on the amendments to the Environmental and Change Act and amendments to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. I'm just going to have a few of my thoughts on one and the other amendments to the law. In the section relating to the amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, it is certainly necessary to support the grouping of certain professional tasks given to the authorising officers from 26 to 8 in which I deem it reasonable to define certain categories of tasks for which the authorisation is granted. And here, in that sense, I support the very amendment of this law because I think it will simplify all those activities that have been carried out by the authorities so far. This amendment to the law is also important and important in the part where the Environment Protection Agency is now abolished. As it is written in the explanation, it is, therefore, abolished by the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which significantly reduces the number of state institutions of the institutions of the institutions, agencies, institutes, etc., thereby reforming, restructuring, reducing the number of state bodies, which means simplifying and performing the tasks that have been prescribed by certain laws so far. In this respect, the Environmental Protection Act and the Environment Protection Agency were established. When we were in the process of Croatia's accession to the EU, then there were certain reasons, the need to bring the EU acquis into line with the agency itself, the basis of which the agency was founded. One of its main reasons was to draw up a full report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia which we are here in the Croatian Parliament to discuss so far seems to me twice. For the first time in 2006-2009, so this four-year period, the second time, and I think we discussed it in 2012 or 2013 and a new report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia concerning the 2009/2012 period. which we discussed in 2014 here in the Croatian Parliament as it was defined under the law that the report on the state of the environment for a certain period may and may be recommended to discuss the longest 2 years of the period, the end of the period for which the report is submitted. This report, in my opinion, was one systematic document showing the state of all environmental components in Croatia and where we could learn about all the activities of the state, regional, area and units of local self-government when it comes to environmental protection. It was not only an overall picture of the state of the environment in Croatia, but it provided guidance on the other hand, a basis for decision-making to all relevant authorities in the Republic of Croatia not only to the Ministry of Resorm but also to other ministries that could in certain ways refer to their decisions to the state of the environment in Croatia. So I am not going after the agency to be preserved, to keep the agency but it is important that we know that the agency had an extremely important job in terms of environmental protection in Croatia and that, on the basis of this report, we have adopted as a state administration either as an executive or legislative authority of the laws, regulations, acts based on, based on such an extremely high-quality report to me. In this way, this job is now taken over by the ministry and I believe that these jobs will be clearly taken over because employees will also be the same as those in the agency itself, that this will continue with such a report by the Croatian Parliament and just as defined at European Commission level by the European Environment Agency. As I see it, there is still at EU level the European Environment Agency, which is monitoring, has, in a certain way, a full picture of all environmental components in the part relating to EU Member States. So, I say I support, with the need to be careful that this work, especially the work on that report, which, which was practically served by the enormous number of other state bodies that were in connection with the delivery of that data. As for self-sustaining waste management. I think that we as a state are already quite late, in the implementation of all those commitments that we have already made in 2010 when we signed pre-accession contracts in part 27 of the environment in which we said that by the end of 2018 all open landfills should be closed in order to establish a system by the end of 2018, the entire waste management system, to reduce to 35% compared to the base... a year of biodegradable waste coming to those same dumps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is because during the Government of the SDP in 2012 we were wandering as a state in relation to the solutions stemming from the Waste Management Act that defined the handling of the construction, construction of regional waste management centres. For a time, it seems to me that about a year and a half ago, there was no need for a document that would allow units of regional or regional self-government or counties to clearly prescribe action at the speed of the construction of these centers. And here, in my view, we've lost some time that we can hardly make up for right now. Later in the second part of the same government, when the minister became Mr. Zmajlovic continued and the pace accelerated, he said, in the need and definition of the state against the waste management centre. 2016 2015, respectively. Again, there has been some debate over the necessary capacity over the waste management centres, here's fellow Dobrović here, talking about a different approach to the construction of the waste management centre, although with the plan he then brought, I would say initial reflection in the definition of the centres themselves in a certain way, and there has been a certain, I would say, compromise between the need for waste to be selected, to be composted, to be recycled, as close as possible, and that only a certain part of the waste management centre is referred to, which is further and ultimately defined through this plan. I believe that we are in position right now and here I support the work of the Ministry in a way that continues and speeds up, speeds up the need and on the one hand the closure of these dumps and on the other hand the establishment of all those centres that are according to the waste management plan. I know a number of problems that are plagued by units of regional self-government... these centers, including my Dubrovnik Neretva County where for a while, after we have defined in the spatial plan the construction of the Waste Management Centre, are suggested to go into the burner ship instead of building that centre and so some other ideas that were not absolutely founded, neither in law nor could they be enforceable, but nevertheless, after we started there are still many, many problems in building access roads, in building municipal infrastructure, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I believe that this law, too, will speed up this part of the law, the construction of the regional centres themselves, so that we can reach the deadlines that we have adopted in the process of Croatia's accession to full EU membership as soon as possible. What I'm holding, that's a continuation, so one of those policies that goes after is to reduce the amount of waste, to allow utility companies, to allow operators of these waste management centres to practically through funds of the fund like the incentive reward all of it, all of those units of local self-government that reduce the amount of waste, in that sense... I support this law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98023	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98024	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić around the waste I will answer you in my presentation later. However, I have listened very carefully to your explanation for the abolition of HAOP where you said that the main role in EU accession is to play, that this job has been successfully done and that time is now simpler. However, I don't think that this explanation is good for you, that the jobs that HAOP is doing today are both more and more complex and complex and more and that it is actually coming into an ever greater number of ways that environmental protection policies in Europe are complicated. You said well about the European Environment Agency, there you can see, therefore, that the roof central European body with which HAOP is working closely and I think that if you look at the websites of one and another unit, you can easily see how important this agency is and that it does not belong at all to this removal list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98025	I thank my colleague Dobrović. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98026	I don't know, I'm trying to remember where I said it in my statement that the agency's affairs changed today compared to the time the agency was created. I said it was also very important to me, that the documents it produces, the documents it collects are very important to the very resolute ministry of this and to all other ministries to make valid decisions when it comes to protecting all environmental components. And in that sense, I agree with you that it is an extremely important agency. That's why I singled out that, it would be good if the Ministry within its administration or what it would be called an organisational form within the Ministry. By abolishing the agency, it does not reduce all those tasks that the agency itself should do in quality and legal terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98027	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next replica is respected counterpart Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98028	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, I agree with your presentation and with everything you have apostrophe. On the one hand, we have a bill here that will bring our legislation into line with the acquis, introduce clear procedures where they haven't been. However, I need to use this short time to warn of the problem of the Jakuševac dump because, according to some estimates, Jakushevac has been in contact with the water carrier for years one and a half kilometers, therefore, from the Crnkovac channel, which is actually 38% of the needs of the City of Zagreb coming from that channel. We know that in 2013, in 2003, the garbage was placed under a certain water barrier, which is about two metres. However, the price of this recovery is more than EUR 85 million, which turns out to be the most expensive disposal of the dump in Europe. It is a problem which the Resort Ministry is believed consciously, but the problem above all of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98029	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin, reply from my colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Irena, for a time I followed the work and rehabilitation of the Jakuševac dump, now I have to admit less, but what I said in my presentation to the basics, it is a need to enable units of local self-government. From the national level, the possibility of speeding up the recovery of all waste management centres in Croatia. I have set an example of my county, where I know how much time has been spent so far, and we have very little distanced from it. This is clear, I do not justify the City of Zagreb and what is happening at that dump, but I say it is necessary to enable this project of the waste management system to be implemented as soon as possible, so that we can fulfil all those obligations that we have made with the accession negotiations and take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98031	I thank my esteemed colleague Bačić for his reply, the next replica, respected colleague Branko Martinchev Juričev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98032	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned an incentive fee. The incentive fee should encourage cities and municipalities to have fewer and fewer mixed municipal waste every year at the dump. I'm afraid there's a neglected fact here, our tourist cities and municipalities, which are trying to have as many as possible every year. arrivals, as large as possible. nights that the tourist season lasts 365 days, and this will certainly have as much waste as possible. Until now, the provision that the equivalent of the population should be viewed should now be deleted, and a provision other than the number of residents should also be included in order to also measure the number of arrivals of the guests and the unit to be seen, i.e. to stimulate the city or municipalities in determining and so on. Incentive fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98033	I thank my esteemed colleague, Martinchev, the answer of my colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98034	I thank my esteemed colleague Juričev Martinchev, here, I think that you were heard by your ministry colleagues, therefore, certainly when defining the incentive fee, it is important, especially in cities that during the summer season, such as guides, more than double the number. Population through number of tourists, number of overnight stays, etc. etc. In order to make it clear that there can be no equal units of local self-government, which is not touristic and which does not have such a significant number of increases in tourists, i.e. residents in a specific area during the year, when waste is created in units of local self-government. So it seems to me that it's entirely justified that you listed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98035	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98036	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. It's already very much said, when it comes to the Waste Management Act, but I'm going to take my position here in short, as we come from the local self-government unit, which is in its economic development and large quantities of waste. As regards the proposal for a Sustainable Waste Management Act, measures to prevent, reduce waste damage to human health and the environment are being arranged. In order for this to be achieved, it is necessary to do everything to reduce waste in its very origin to reduce waste in larger quantities through production and management to the smallest level, which can affect the environment from which damage occurs in all areas, where life is affected by waste from day to day. So far, there have been proposals and final laws, which in practice have not shown clear and precise regulations, for certain procedures, and are trying to make it with waste... procedures in order to meet the effects achieved through the mandatory management system itself, the tasked services that must monitor the waste to the waste management centre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is known that no one is going to waste in their area, which additionally creates trouble, but it is clearly needed to determine what benefits local self-government units should have, in which the area is located and other neighbouring settlements, which... in the vicinity of waste disposal, i.e. disposal centres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, it's been 500 meters since the first settlement, I suggest that it be a maximum of 1000 meters from the waste disposal center under the new law. Since then, there has been a possibility of processing, which can also be partly financially effective but through institutions and education it must bring closer to people, which is the basis for reducing waste and financial gain useful from the collected waste from various landfills. The centres of the future are the only place the task of providing more than 80% of the total waste, however, should determine for those studies the locations for their construction that must cover certain amounts of real waste proportional to the number of residents in one centre. The current feral dumps must also include these dumps so far, with this law they must cover everything for recovery. As regards the closure of the landfill, provisions concerning the order shall be added in accordance with the plan to close the waste disposal. Based on a decision by the Minister on the termination of work and the closure of a place of disposal, where the staff and units of local self-government are given the task to cease and close landfills in accordance with the decision of the competent administrative authority. As for the eyewitnesses, a new one is introduced instead of the previous one, which does not require the establishment’s authorisation for waste management, which relieves and simplifies the process for the start of operation of the plant. More specifically, waste collection into possession is added to the possibility of promoting waste management, by granting support under the programme adopted by the ministry by the Regulation. When it comes to the affairs of the communal director, about the irregular delay in waste, I feel that the vast majority of them are not able to do it, and the reason is, there is a very much reason. The areas they cover are largely different in areas, in environmental pollution, inability to implement and identify the perpetrators, inrecognition of waste, etc. and I suggest that this function is exclusively needed... employees of a company trained in waste disposal or waste collection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to units of local administrations, I have to express my concerns about taking care of the surrender of other major waste, such as construction waste and others, and the reason is that within the boundaries and scopes... municipalities and cities are not the same owners of land where it could be planned... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] location for the reception of bulky and indegradable waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To a large extent, he is the owner of the Republic of Croatia and the user of Croatia's forest makes it very difficult to take care of various types of waste. Furthermore, all the costs of taking over the said waste cannot be borne on the burden of unit costs of local administrations and I propose that the regulation assigns authorised firms as holders of the total and organised disposal of waste. As for plans that must have all units of local administration, I also consider a smaller burden because it is not the same to have one settlement or more settlements, it is not the same for units of local administrations living from economies and tourism because they are large waste producers compared to those where waste is solely mixed in small quantities. Therefore, I propose that a single management and construction plan be drawn up at the county level, for the management and recovery of waste, and that the funds from the development of plans be used to resuscitate landfills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98037	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lonchar. The next debate, dear colleague Mato Čičak, is not present. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98038	Dear Mr. Minister, Assistant Minister, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is always and everywhere when we talk about every law, especially those laws that are operationally to be dealt with on the ground we come to municipalities and cities. We come to what are the obligations of municipalities and cities, what they must do and what, after all, if they don't make something they're sanctioned. So in this bill, what is particularly welcomed is that change in the obligations of units from 1500 to 3000 inhabitants, related to the construction of a recycling yard. Many units of local self-government have made efforts to secure such a thing in their area in accordance with the legislation so far, and they have invested in that part of the purchase of mobile recycling yards. I also welcome the proposal for a decision of a legal solution, since neither city nor municipality and we are aware of it, we see and from the media does not want a waste dump in its area. It is fair that such units of local self-government that have accepted this burden to build what is in their area, the type of Viskova and the Mariščina that has so unfortunately revived after the beaten millions of kunas and the county in some way washes the hands of the Primorje-goranska, it is fair and fair to regulate that all other units of local self-government bear and some compensation to the municipality of Viskovo what happens in its space. In this part, however, I propose that since we all know that in the price structure there is a departure of municipal waste, and in this case this waste is driven from one unit to another unit of local self-government in the price structure and municipal waste disposal services there is that famous development price which should essentially be the original income of the unit of local self-government, so city and municipality. I think a solution should be found in that body in order to relieve this second part of the budget, cities and municipalities and the obligation to compensate the unit of local self-government on whose premises such a place is situated to pay from that price of municipal service and this compensation of the unit of local self-government as a cash compensation, which is why this is located in their space. By considering and operationally doing these work on the ground by building and municipal dumps in many of our settlements, the purchase of a mobile recycling yard and the obligation to build a recycling yard in the area, specifically my unit of local self-government, has raised a single operational question why such an obligation should, in the space of such a unit of local self-government, such as the example of Otočac, Ogulin or, in particular, with me in Bakru, exist a company that has every prerequisite to do something and deal with it. It is even in its business plan and in its purchase using all its resources related to the very protection of the environment by study, with insurance and the very drive of the type Methis, especially in the industrial zone, which is why their... If such a possibility exists, it would not be possible to use, in part, as an already built recycling yard for the needs of that local self-government unit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that some kind of solution can be found in that section, the units of local self-government or the communal company doing those jobs, to transfer that kind of intelligence. So in any case, these legal provisions are mostly in that section relating to the reduction of these bureaucratic procedures and as far as I can see, the very tendency of these amendments of the law goes in that direction is to welcome. And here, I'm not going to abuse this pay phone, but I'm going to give a concrete example of the information being provided in order to make media campaigns or pressures that just 10 minutes ago happened, 20 minutes ago, I've been answering questions and citizens all the time. Here I had a few specific questions and journalists. Namely, on the Index.hr portal without anyone checking anything, a notice came out with a number of photos of dead fish, specifically down in Bakr. Anyone who understands fish sees that they are not sea fish, that they are California trout that have been released as adult specimens into the spring. However, there is always this acclimatisation, which eventually dies, someone has abused it in a way to try to call the city and the ministry. In this regard, Mr Branko, here is the minister, and I call this way for what we have already agreed on on 7.11. concrete and this meeting that will be held operationally with us down in Bakru to make sure that everything I have been saying behind this pay phone for years, and in the Ministry and in the media about the need of the Forced port of Rijeka, or to suspend work to protect this coastal city and the entire area, the protected monument of culture, because his work in this way has not only destroyed the further possibility of development, so much devast and ask the city, fully inappropriate technology performs this activity, there was also with this problem, and I personally was with Minister Dobovic while he was acting on this duty, familiar with all of these, however, there is no movement. So I'm using this topic and this legislative proposal and my individual debate to highlight this problem of Bakar, which, not only historically, gave a lot to our homeland, but at this point with a strong and sudden development of the economy, now over 297 companies, with thousands of jobs that are permanently opening up in that space, deserves a completely different treatment. I am convinced Ministers that you will respect our needs and that we will ultimately find a solution to how to protect this city. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98039	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. We have a replica. Dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98040	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, you are, I will refer to that first part of the debate, not this where they are related to the town of Bakar. In the first part of the debate you launched one topic, perhaps unconsciously, but extremely important. We talked about junk until recently. We started talking about waste as valuables. I'm absolutely convinced, until we realize that waste is worth it, until we realize that those units of local self-government they have, where they're located in centres or certain waste disposal facilities, that they have to have certain benefits. I don't think we're going to systematically take a step forward. Therefore, waste no longer needs to be talked about as garbage, should be discussed as a value and should be actually because no one would waste in his yard. It's like we can put in a plastic bag and perform, I don't know, in a neighboring country, and that's how it's supposed to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98041	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. The answer of my colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98042	My dear colleague, Dark Taritash, I've spoken very knowingly because I know what I'm talking about and what this is about. I don't see just absolutely no reason for a company that normally deals with waste, with... Make as much money as possible, the better, the better, the better, the more possible, in cooperation with the municipality or the city. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, what I'm waiting for, and I want it to happen in Croatia in the morning in front of every family house that passes, I don't know, a green truck for this municipal waste, blue for cans, plastics, metals, and that in that way, from the very doorstep, it's not exactly a waste, but the raw material that we all want to eventually happen, to appear in the re-production cycle. However, in this way, thinking about how we've done so far, and yet I mention this Marishina project where everything is placed on one pile and lonely, then it's completely justified fear, fear and revolt of the municipalities of Viskovo, Klana and that area because it's simply not waste, it's garbage. And that's the way to work with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98043	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric. Next debate, dear colleague Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98044	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So we have in the debate two amendments, two laws. There is one thing about environmental protection, but of course we find this other law much more interesting. I'd like to discuss this law actually I've decided to discuss a few topics, so I'll see how much time I'll have. The first topic is actually the importance of municipalities and cities. I am extremely glad that my colleague mentioned the problem of tourist cities. We have 556 municipalities and cities, so 555 plus the City of Zagreb. And that's what each person needs to look at separately. With regard to our development of tourism, we need to look at these reinforced peaks that are and that the cities that have, therefore, tourist season, other than water problems, have terrible problems with disposal and with waste that has been significantly increased at one point, and in the winter period it is significantly less. Or what I really want to point out? I want to point out that we on the one hand have a law that can be good, can be correct, can be great, but it's another thing on the law that we have to apply. And the Ministries on the one hand propose laws, we adopt them, but where do they go? They are conducted at the level of municipalities and cities. And we of 556 have somewhere over 100 that do well with their own waste. I've often been able to set an example of a town where my mom has a cottage, and I've been there since I was 67. When my mom told me a few years ago, look, we have chipped trash cans, I thought she got something wrong. So, we've had chipped trash cans there for a few years now, and we've got bags that separate waste, we've got regular waste disposal, we've got everything we need, and it's normal in the City of Zagreb, unfortunately, it's not like that. I speak from a pay phone and from all others, if the whole of Croatia solves its own way of responding, therefore, its problem with waste properly, and the City of Zagreb does not do so, there is one proverb: Jabba we created. So the City of Zagreb had to do with the Yakuševac a certain obligation until when the Jakushec should be rehabilitated. The last commitment was until 2018. The last change of plan is that, it is no longer a plan category, which I personally think is not the plan category and the City of Zagreb, or the last thing the waste management plan has to say is that there is a city in Jakushevec and there is a city in Zagreb driving. And the minister is probably well aware of the situation, he's well aware that it's started with the project, that the project to make it takes three years, I have some experience that I have, that this moment, so if it's for the project for three years, then it's going to take at least two, three years to realize something and it's real. Of course, we have a very interesting mayor who had his first promise in 2003 to burn something if it wasn't going to be. So each time before the election, he solemnly says he will burn but he has a saying "it's easy to promise". So what we really need to take care of is what it is in the city of Zagreb. I wanted three more topics. One topic is mud. So we have a wastewater treatment device. The biggest problem of the mud, where is it? In the town of Zagreb, where there was a 2 ha flat where this mud could be left, treated, and then there was the idea of a mud burner behind it, so we were just as easily headed into projects of wastewater treatment devices, which is good without knowing what happens to mud and mud at present we are actually paying and exporting beyond the border of the Republic of Croatia. The specific theme in this Waste Act is mineral raw materials. So, exploitation fields of mineral raw materials. We have these customs, you always have some order, you can't skip something. Up until 2002, by 2003, mineral raw materials could be exploited, so spatial plans said that only within construction areas could not exploit mineral raw materials, that exploitation fields could not be planned, but could be planned everywhere according to certain elements and, among other things, it was consistent with the environmental impact assessment. No environmental impact assessment that was in the field of exploitation was without any recovery measures. Whether it was a natural recovery or a recovery for a new purpose. What do we really have? In reality, we have an exploitation of mineral raw materials, it's exploited by one moment, and the investor is gone. And leave the field of exploitation like that. We now need to know, in accordance with EU regulations, what will happen to the waste and that will be the next problem. So we have unsanitary exploitation fields, we have waste over these exploitation fields, and it's going to be a new circle of problems that we're going to have, and we have to deal with that, or other words, and for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, we're going to raise some resources, part goes to local self-government units, part goes to regional self-government, part goes to the state. I am sure that in the future it will be necessary to make sure that those who are concessionaries, that part be a special fund for recovery, as was the idea from the aspect of nature protection to be a special fund for recovery, that we also have a special fund for the problem of waste. The company will go bankrupt, it won't be, it'll be a burden of the state as it is today and the recovery of the exploitation fields is a burden of the state. Where there's a purpose or even a tourist purpose is a much smaller problem but where it's without purpose, it's not at least the main of those exploitation fields that was in the period when we were building highways, behind it are some cancer wounds, I think it's good to have it in the law but we have to think a step further. So the law has determined the form, which and how. The reality of the company is going down, it's going down, it's staying a non-sanitary exploitation field, and on it's waste, so those funds that come from the concessions that go to the state, it'd be good if some of the funds were going to go to a fund from which someone who didn't take care of it, take care of the waste, too. We have something that's kind of blasphemous to mention, and you're in law like this through article 35, and that's your theme of waste as fuel and energy. So, no one at all is very hard to want, mentioning the energanes, was the famous burner in Zagreb where the story was that it's bigger in the center, so what's the problem, it's actually supposed to be really from the beginning to the end we know, what we can recycle, what we can use for reuse, what happens and after all of that process, of course, it's not the perpetum mobile, it's not at the end of zero, without looking at what anyone claims, it's not zero. What are we doing? It can't be zero, it's never zero, what are we doing with it? So, here they were so lightly mentioned not by the burner, but by the energanes, so then we have HEP, we also have HEP heat. Maybe that's the way, I don't know. So, I'm kind of imagining that I'm dealing with spatial planning and I'm trying to deal with it and I don't mind my position, I'm really following the trends that are in the world, and I've also been reading and discussing and listening to all the different attitudes related to the waste, the more I've been in one very interesting campaign in the city of Zagreb that started with the waste, and I'm afraid that according to everything that somehow, I don't think the citizens of the city of Zagreb should believe my words or any other, let them believe their eyes and let them see what's in reality about the waste of the city of Zagreb, even the parliamentary representatives on the way or going to the assembly can see what we're talking about. I think we have to, and what I'm just finishing here is the last thing I want to say. We tend to start over with every government and every new minister. Nothing starts over. We need to know what the ultimate goal is, how we want to actually solve the problem and we're going to take a step forward. Sometimes the topic starts with every new minister from the beginning, but when the minister from one option inherits the minister from another option and says, "This was good, this is how we move on, and what's not good we're going to change." And then, in fact, there will be absolutely no problem for one side of the assembly to raise or vote for the law proposed by some other side of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98045	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Replicas, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98046	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, you've touched a lot of it. I'll just refer to one part of your exposure in which I absolutely agree. The units of local self-government are those that either work or do not work and their results show what they are actually doing and that is why we have a wide variety in Croatia. Krk, which even has tourism and these great peaks of season, reached almost 60%, the Prelog that quietly works and creates miracles at 65%, etc. There are more valuable memories, but they are doing so and they have done so without state aid mostly great. Now I have a lot of money, and we just have to do the law in our own right, not solve anything, but the mayors, the mayors have to sit down and start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98047	Thank you, colleague Dobrović, for the answer of my colleague Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98048	So just like that, colleague Dobrović, so the ministry is proposing a law, the law can be the best in the world, we will discuss it depending on how much we agree, how much we disagree, but we really have to give the law a chance to see their results on the ground. This is the law when it comes to waste their results you really see through local units, so through municipalities and cities. There are municipalities and cities that have been doing it well for years, I don't see it, I don't see that there's a problem in general that if you see someone doing something good, so why doesn't what they're doing take over someone else. So, I was talking about the city, talking about New Vinodolski. Oh, my God, there's a whole cottage in there, but it works great. Nobody thinks to take the bag off, so it's green for green waste before Friday night out because Saturday mornings it drives away and we normally function for the simple reason why we pay our mixed municipal waste to a bucket that drives us 2x a week, and this whole other thing actually had a reason why we do it and we do it. If I do so in Novi Vinodolski I will do even in Zagreb what... /the speaker turned off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98049	I'd like to thank my colleague, Dark Tarritash, and I'd like to ask you to watch your time. The next replica is respected counterpart Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98050	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, I must react when you mention the City of Zagreb. I see this law as a positive shift, but when you mention cities and counties, as you do, I am not fully satisfied with how we manage our largest Jakuševac dump, which is only 5 km from the city center. And if I'm speaking as a resident of New Zagreb, then it's even stronger with additional smells, gases that feel almost 3-4 times a month but it's not a problem in that smell, we can still handle it somehow. The biggest problem is in the potential danger of penetrateing these harmful substances into the water carrier in Crnikovec because we all know that the ground there at that Jakuševac dump is not waterproof, i.e. the base since 2003 is 2 metres and it is not permanent and it will sooner or later have to be replaced. On the one hand, or the Yakushevac will have to move somewhere and no one will, or should, be able to do so with honor, but some say that the location cannot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98051	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin Vukasnović. The answer to a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98052	Thank you very much. So, the Yakushevac is an example as no, the Yakushevac is actually an image but he is an example to us and when politics decides and decides wrong. In 2000 in the City of Zagreb was the Spacious Plan of the City of Zagreb at its arrival which had a location for waste Dumovecki onion which is an excellent location, so the eastern part of the city, and then because of most of the hands that should be in the city's assembly, it was 26 times the site was removed from the City of Zagreb's Space Plan and since then the whole story begins. There's a whole story going on with it, and that story isn't going to end that easily, but the next location is Resnik. Believe me, four to five years from now, we need to put that location into operation, and the other one has no way but this is, but the way the mayor manages we have a chance to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98053	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, for your reply. We are entering the next debate, dear colleague Željko Lackovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98054	Dear Vice President, esteemed ministers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this united debate may be ideal to show that there is a huge gap between legislation and what we have on the ground and what we can achieve on the ground. For example, I will now use one situation here from the Koprivnica-Crizevnica County is about the regional waste management centre Piškornica, which is foreseen for 4 counties, Varazdinska, Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorska and Koprivnica-Crissing, with potential possible expansion to Bjelovarska and Virovička. So, when it comes to the Environmental Protection Act on the need to make a strategic assessment, I simply cannot ask myself a question so when he was thinking about where he was going to place this one waste management centre, he chose exactly the most negative location, which is the location that has very easy waterproof layers underneath him and that lies upriver the largest waterbender in Croatia with the most qualitative groundwater drinking water in which the hydrogeological study confirmed the capacity of 110 million cubic cc of water exploitation without any reference to any metals. You now have the same study from 2014 established an extremely increased level of heavy metals and everything that comes behind you irresponsible waste accumulation. In the meantime, environmental licences were expanded and issued, i.e. increased capacity at the Piškornica dump, it had some old capacity of a million 122000 tonnes, and yet it was raised recently by 666000 tonnes, with the reason that there was no need to carry out a strategic assessment because it was actually the wrong data that was misinformed from earlier environmental permits. So, the very fact that there's a hydrogeological study that points from 2014 to an increased share of heavy metals in underground waters, where you have 3,000 liters per second of the possibility of exploitation, is enough for you, by my judgment, to do a new study of environmental impact, or that a strategic assessment must be made in such a situation. Clearly, Ministers that you are in an awkward situation because you are protecting the environment but you must also manage the waste and then it is written in that permit that it is perfectly normal to store nearly 2 million tons of waste storage and before, in Pishkornica, and before it will be built there, a waste management centre. I think these provisions of the Environmental Protection Act which regulate the assessment process on the need for a strategic assessment of good, but I also think that they need to be applied to a specific situation because the waste management centre is still not at such a stage that they cannot find a more favourable location. You have locations where you have thick clay layers, the Bjelovar County has no, say, plumbers below it, and I can't believe someone estimated that this is a good location. So, I don't know when it's gonna be worth it, and for which all of these new provisions are in place, but I believe that if one true and fair strategic assessment were made that the waste management centre would not be in its place. I would also like to point out the provision, the amended provision, Article 123, of the proposed amendments to the Law relating to the areas of the plant where the provisions of the Law do not apply and the obligations of the operator, as regards the prevention of major accidents, are therefore explicitly excluded and the storage and permanent disposal of gases in geological structures, with the exception of the use of dangerous substances, by not being defined as hazardous substances. As you know in Podravina, there are hundreds of wells, they are exhausted and according to the data provided by INA, there are carried out or conducted procedures to fracture underground rocks in order to increase the usability of the wells, we see that the rise of oil prices on the world market, and it will again be profitable and I will return again, therefore, to the largest water carrier of the highest quality drinking water that can solve your drinking water supply problems, not only on the whole of the Adriatic, but can also be subject to exportation. On the other hand, in relation to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, I would like to commend the provisions relating to the fact that there is no longer a need to obtain permits in the Evidence of Use for Composal and Biogas Plants, because it is possible, through the compost, to significantly reduce the amount of waste we delay and to pray that the Regulation determines what would be the compensation for the use of waste disposal on units, other units of local self-government for the area of the other, not only in relation to the waste that will be delivered until the closure of the landfill, but also in relation to all those illegal landfills which, through the recovery method of ex-seat, will be moved to the current landfills so that they would not have, in one legal void in which the value is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98055	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lackovic, for moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, here you are. You've already had three replicas, so I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98056	Thank you very much. Here, I'll pick up where I left off. So, a united debate, two important laws, but here's what it is, there it is. Therefore, the concept of waste management which was formed and defined through the 2005 Strategy and the Waste Management Plan in 2007 defined everything instead of, for disposal, to drive to waste management centres. Here, so we need to know, and now a few years later we put into the Sustainable Waste Management Act, the 20% target of, excuse me, 50% of the minimum recycling rate by 2020, is it possible for these centres to achieve this? No, I don't. So the answer is no, because there's no recycling in those centers, that's where the fuel is produced. Waste fuel is not recycling. So, I ask that you underline and learn and see and learn because if you change that concept that cannot meet the goals of waste management by the Republic of Croatia, then it is not wandering, but it is a change of concept at the last minute. And that's why the 2017 plan that I'm responsible for puts into priority the financing of that infrastructure that can only reach this rate of 50% recycling, which is sorting plants, composts, reuse centres and functional recycling yards. So priority means to build that network first, raise the amount of waste that goes through that system because waste raw materials are formed there. So, and then they won't, we won't have a mass, it's not a plastic recycling system when a separate collection system puts something or paper on the pile because it's market valueless without sorting, presses, so here we're clear. So this infrastructure is missing and it's been out of systematic funding for a whole number of years from the state, the sortery. And some cities that have succeeded and municipalities, here, the entire island of Krk he built a sortery in 2005 and thanks to it achieved the success of about 55% of the separate collection. The proposal did the same in a significantly shorter period, I am sure that by establishing a infrastructure that is not now a problem to finance because we have European money that jump can be achieved in a year, two, it doesn't take 10% a year. It can be achieved in a year, two, I'm sure. Look at you, please, an early warning that came from the European Commission two, three weeks ago. That's exactly what it says there that the funding weight should be transferred from the centre to the eco-infrastructure that allows recycling. Here, that's exactly what it says there. So, I pray you don't talk about the wandering of a minister who's doing circus now, no one understands what and how, and here, we've stopped at building these famous centers, because the centers won't solve your problem. Therefore, it will only address the potential issue of harmonisation, more incoherent as it will indecate biodegradable waste, at which price and with no sustainability, therefore sustainable waste management means ecological sustainability and this is responsible behaviour towards resources and the environment. And second economic sustainability because if that paper stays in the local environment is converted into a waste ball, it's worth 500 kuna or 300 or 400 as much as you want or 1000 if the office kuna per tonne if sorted, if it wasn't in contact with food and hazardous waste, it's worth it. If it mixes and drives in Mariščina, it's not worth it, it costs and it's even gas generation material, okay they've got a bio reactor dump but it doesn't work well there all the time. So we must quickly build what I am talking about and what I am saddened by is that he is terribly late for public calls. The public call for a recycling yard was in February 2017 when I was minister. In the meantime, we have only education and we started talking about vessels, no, with this going on, I don't know what kind of circle, so now it's going to be millions of these cans from once, but we're missing sorters and it's not good to hear these announcements that there will be restrictions on the capacity of visuality, etc. Give the sortery, help every municipality, even if it's a 10-ton sortery this year. I think it's important because otherwise you impose on them, they all have a obligation to do separate recycling and they will certainly lower to the local level to fulfill this obligation. What's still sad is what's sad. worrys about saying cities bring plans by waste management and for small ones I don't know, there's not enough to look at everything where there's no priority, so Zagreb has got your consent from the Ministry, they're building a centre together, there's not a single sorting room before that, there's no one here that can make it possible to lift the recycling rate. Split, so there is no location, well this is what the county office has given consent to, but I should not know from the ministry's post who to suggest to local self-government units. They have great responsibilities. All mayors and commissioners, their utility companies must ensure the conditions for this to be separated and returned to the economic system. Compensation for the use of landfills, so basically it's not a bad thing to damage a local community that suffers the presence of a dump. However, without the same definition of a delay fee at all, a fee that will raise the price of this cheap dump today, so here we have a huge external cost that is not in market price. That price can be seen later in the insinuation because here's the Yakushevac spent how many millions of kunas and yet the problem is present. So, a fee that can help local self-government units get rid of cheap delays and start doing something because it's insecure to force people to secede, it's insinuate now to hire people, sort out, cross this thing, and torture themselves. However, this is as necessary as it is necessary to introduce as urgent as possible, I, as Minister, was just considering an emergency measure and financing mandatory delays for all landfills. This is important because without it, this fee is out of the question and statistics would be significantly improved. The recycling yard, a thousand, a thousand five hundred, three thousand people. It's a formalist approach that's not good because we're a very weakly populated country and some, and some settlements, some municipalities, and three thousand are their big problem. And I don't think that's the right way at all, the right way is to ensure the functionality of recycling yards. Therefore, if two three municipalities have agreed and if they have more or less, it is so important that every citizen of them knows where and where with it and that it is encouraged and that they make sure that they get the man, the citizen to bring his problematic waste there. So, functionality long before this needs to be formally required to be fulfilled because this formalism that is constantly present is the over-indulgence of what effect has it achieved? Did it affect... to move into its revolution from the perspective of the average Croatian environment or Krk which has already begun, not but their knowledge that they must do something, their responsibility to the environment and ultimately, is not only an environmental matter but also an economy because waste management is in the right way, therefore sustainablely, where raw materials are returned to the economic system, to the maximum extent possible is what goes hand in hand with the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as energy exploitation is concerned, we can also talk about it, but let's face it, Europe predicts raising these targets and penalizing, burning everything that is recycled. So I don't see any big perspective here, but I'm sure there will be certain amounts. Thank you very much, we can't support any law for these important reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98057	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We have a few replicas, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98058	Col. Dobrovic, from this presentation of yours, it is obvious that the minister only from the occasion to the occasion of the story of the circular economy, if 17 months, if it is true that he is not opening tenders for this important infrastructure that I would have said, one starting point that could at all go towards the circular economy, the sorting area, the recycling yard and the rest, it is clear that we have only one story, that the main concept of these waste management centres is that the key man of the fund, who is HNS, is attacking you for possible pens that will come and those 17 months. They didn't call for tenders for this infrastructure, so one of the HNS's scampers is attacking you, so it's clear here what's going on. So no, he would say Miro Bulj, there's probably not enough peanuts in these recycling yards, sorters, etc. So it is clear that you are headed in the right direction and that now Minister Coric under the influence of his colleagues from the HNS, this concept of the minister, or it was already HDZ's... I've been thinking since 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98059	I thank my colleague Grmoy, I would really ask you in your expression that you do not insult anyone and do not use such sayings because this is the High House and from this position we are sending a message to the entire Croatian public so that I would ask you not to insult anyone and use such an ugly word for anyone, your personal opinion of anyone of your right but please refrain in the House. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98060	Here's really short, 238th, so I think that let's just say that let's be hot, or not warmly offended, and all of the representatives of the HNS who, with one sylogism, told them that I would ask that here, in fact, I would like to join your comment that this is not exactly in the spirit of parliamentaryism because neither are all MOST's representatives and members of the bad, so it is true for all the other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98061	I thank my esteemed colleague Curaju Grmoya: There may be some honest HNS but it is a new form of life to say campaign... [[I'd like to apologize, maybe there's... a fellow Thunderbolt, please. .../]] I didn't give you my word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First let me answer Mr. Curai, thank you very much. I've already pointed out my colleague to Grmoy and asked him, so there was no need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmoy, you took your word and I didn't give you my word, you have a way of apologizing, based on article 239, I give you a reminder. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98062	Thank you. My colleague Grumo, therefore, I do not think that Minister Coric is running some poor policy in terms of intent, so I think Minister Coric has found himself in an uninvited situation of an area he does not know well. The thing is, which advisers will he bow to and unfortunately I think it is evident that the group that was interested in the big business and that all 475 million or at least the large majority of euros from... spend on centres, that they are quite loud and influential but here, we hope that a good part of the infrastructure drawn up in the plan will still be able to finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98063	Thank you, dear colleague Dobrović, for your reply. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98064	Thank you, Vice President. I have a question for you, so I support your concept and that you're trying to be sorters with less capacity and that I need to be penalized, but I have one question for you from the time you were minister, then the Sustainable Waste Management Act also prescribed the obligation to adopt a regulation on the minimum cost of waste management. This rule, as far as I know, has never been passed or that price of care has been determined, and in this way you lost your ability to penalize, and then you made ecocides, for example, that happened because the rich cities brought their waste to Vukovar, to Piškornica, at ridiculous prices of 200 kn per tonne and you were minister. So, I'm interested if you can in a minute, why didn't you set a minimum price and prevent this irresponsible behavior from being exploited by certain systems and that have made a fortune at the expense of the entire communities, given that in their area they had been dumplings of great capacity?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98065	Thank you, colleague Lackovic. Answer, colleague Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98066	Thank you very much. So you need to know that I was a minister in two short terms and that I had the biggest fight over ever having a waste management plan, so there are major conflicts with stakeholders who are just painting what you're talking about. So these are businesses that work at the expense of situations and necessity, so these are monopolies, agreed monopolies in which many are forced to drive material in an inability to pre-establish a system that is able to extract waste material from the creation of garbage and that is matt or chess-mat position. The entire local self-government unit is in a position to pay a significantly larger municipal service that we have examples of. So I'm sorry we didn't make it any further. My intention was to continue to lay the system on sustainability principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98067	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tulio Demtlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, most of what you and I talked about, I see that we agree, but as minister, you were exclusively for the removal of the center. The centres have already been in the construction phase and now only one additional question, since you are, but I am also aware that as much of the waste as possible must end up in the center itself and that it should be selected on the doorstep, what is on the doorstep to pass through the sorting plants, through the loading stations, through all possible recycling and that as soon as possible the quantities come to waste. But you yourself said 50% of these best cities, is that Krk, Čakovec and similar examples separate those 50%, these other 50% by you where should we go now if not to the center? Whether directly to the dump because there will be a certain period, whether it will be 10 or 15, 20 years, these centres will contribute to separateing a certain amount of waste from those 50% and not going to the dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98069	Thank you, answer, colleague Dobrović, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98070	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, therefore, the centres as centres have their place in the waste management system, but they are not the bearer, they are not the backbone of the system. And that is why the plan defines the maximum capacity of the centres that can be filled and which can also be smaller depending on how successful local self-government units are. It is not 50% limit, so the success of the local self-government system can be greater and there are examples over 80%, the rest goes there. However, as a stronger system of separate collection of any recycled substance but also dangerous substances, that is why we are talking about a functional recycling yard that does not exist as a system, then simplifys the problem of the rest and simplifies technology and that is the way to go. So that's what I stood for, and no, I didn't multiply with zero, so center.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98071	I thank my colleague Dobrović for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98072	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dobrović, I am pleased that you mentioned exactly the word of a successful local self-government leader. The fact is one thing, of course, is that it is promoted through legal solutions that should be implemented to provide all other items. But when we get to the level of individual local self-government leaders, then we see how much ignorance there is, how worried there is about legal solutions, how much there is actually a need for someone to come from a professional level and find a model that is sustainable. Of course that's where the question arises whether we all go at one speed or if we have the opportunity to go at two speeds. Because, of course, one small local self-government with all the models that predict legal solutions will have huge costs for its citizens. And it will be very difficult under these conditions to organise the price to be at the level of some major environments. I think it'll be a big challenge if we just bring solutions but not advice on how to implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98073	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, colleague Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98074	Thank you very much. Coliga Panenić, it is clear that there is a great responsibility on the leaders of local self-government who must have the courage first to find people who run the municipal sector, who are not people who came here as a catch and who have traveled to the company's expense or to eat a good lunch or dinner, but are there to get through the transition period into what we have to do, and that's once the garbage was created and now the waste has been converted into raw materials. And these are both visionaries and people who are willing to listen to advice, people who are not susceptible to listening, I don't know any special merchants with quasi solutions and all-powerful technologies that take care of everything rather than build access to some solution that we all have to achieve at some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98075	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Demetlik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98076	Well, yeah, I'd like to tell you that the chairpersons of MOST that if they're a little angry or I don't know why, but they insult it simply and call it, I'll say in this case the directors of municipal companies that we believe are doing their job well because these results that are achieved on the ground with successful mayors and leaders we have successful directors. So it's ugly that those names of the arrests that are there, just to eat and drink, I don't think that's the level of one first of all the MPs as well as the professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98077	Dear colleague Demetlika, first of all, you have to call yourself at the violation of the Rules of Procedure which article was injured, you did not say that. As far as Mr. Dobrovic's words are concerned, it is his right to speak as he wishes. I've already asked my colleagues to stay away from insults and any insults, and I haven't noticed about his words that there have been any major insults compared to what was before. So I'm asking you not to use any damage to the Rules of Procedure in the future. I thank you, we move on to the final word on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Tomislav Ćoric, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs. At the very beginning of this relatively short presentation I will thank you first of all for the comments you made during your discussions on behalf of the clubs of parliamentary representatives but also during individual discussions. Therefore, the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act as well as amendments to the Law on Amendments and amendments to the Law on Waste Management have come out of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, above all, to make our economies and our economies and all those involved in these processes behave, or, as far as possible, to the extent possible. Of course, there are problems on that road, of course, that road is often prevented by objective circumstances, the situation on the ground, both at the level of the unit of local self-government, their bearers, local authorities and also within the system itself. However, I must admit that, as I come to this debate today, in half two laws and third, which you will hear at the very end of today, I actually thought, in addition to a few details, which could possibly be a point of reluctance, for example by defining these approvals, i.e., powers for legal persons, not for natural persons, which Mrs. Mr. Mr. Mr. Taritas cited, but also Mr. Zmajlović or, for example, Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which is the personal opinion of former Minister Dobrovic. I thought that in fact most of the other details of these laws and legislative proposals would be adopted by consensus during our debate today. However, as this happens very often, my reflections have not been quite achieved and today's debate has been well done in different ways that as such, I'm not sure that they were at the level of this honorable House. I'm not going to go into all the details so far. So, once again, I'm going to refer to the fact that both changes bear an improvement in the entire system. As for the expertise of HAPA and expertise, which comes from it and is referred to several debates today, it will in no way be threatened, as it has not been threatened in the last year and 5 months. As a minister representing the ministry here, I must say. As for the general waste management system, which is the subject of these changes and additions, allow me to refer in just a few moments here. On several occasions in today's debate, it was very strong, it made it known, and I would like to keep the bush, since I will refer to you. It has several times made it clear that once someone exits the Ministry, from the minister's position that everything stops and goes the other way, that they take a completely different direction, that they want to bring down everything they've done, because those who have done it have not done it well. The Department of Environmental and Energy Protection team in this area did exactly the opposite. So we are all what was positively done during the mandate of my predecessors, and the Waste Management Act, which was passed during Mr. Dobrović, the waste management plan, which was passed during the term of my apology to Dragonovic, because the plan by waste management, which was passed during Mr. Dobrović, we are actually from all these documents, from all of this platform, tried to do and draw the best possible and all that time we do. So, Mr. Dobrovic, based on a whole series of your observations and your presentations, I would like to point out that it is in the 2017 waste management plan. 31% of the funds, or a billion and 600 million kuna, provided for the waste management centres. So that's your waste management plan. I'll refer not to any other moments, which are mentioned here. So, in the last year and several months, four tenders have been opened, 4 public calls at the ministry level. So the first call, and this refers to the fact that we haven't done anything, that is to say, to benefit through these changes and additions and our requisition of programs to some stakeholders. The first call we opened was a call to resuscitate the dump. A call for education, i.e. a tender for education, was opened next to it. The third call is, that is, a tender for the rehabilitation of the Soviets, and the fourth call we expect in the next month is a call for containers, i.e. a tender for the purchase of the container. The day before yesterday, we held a meeting with our mayors of the largest cities, in order to open a procurement tender by 31.10. The fact is that the Minister of Environment and Energy does not come from the field of environmental protection in this term, is not a university professor in this area, in no way is he abdicating responsibility for everything that seems to be at the level of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Not only environmental protection, but also energy and water management, as you know, this is a very wide area. How much of your expertise has been in this, I won't talk about it. But what I can definitely say is that these changes are the result of the work of the best people in this area in the Republic of Croatia. They're some quasi counselors who come from different stakeholders. These are the people here and many others who work very well, do very well in this area. Anyone who thinks it's different will always come across a response like this from the ministry's perspective and me personally. So, what I want to tell you, once again, with certain comments that we will take into account, is definitely in the next period, and they concern some details, legislative changes to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy protection are behind both proposals of the law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law. We hold that any well - meaning comment that comes to us absolutely is worth considering and that is what we will do. However, we also ask you to consider that there are areas that in themselves do not deserve to be politicized, their implementation and the implementation of the programme. We believe that environmental protection, as well as waste management, is one of those areas. Whether someone is looking at a parliamentary debate at this point, whether or not you're going to go out in some evening diary with your presentation, there are areas that actually deserve content. It seems to me that some parts of today's debate are not in that direction yet. I thank you in advance for supporting these legal changes. Thank those who have already said they will support them. I'm asking everyone else to think one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98079	I thank the respected minister, Mr. Coric, the closing words, we have several replicas, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98080	Thank you very much. So, in this assembly of Parliament, we always have and we stress the special satisfaction when the minister comes and defends the law because it's not very common, so let me commend every time it should be normal for the minister to come. If that's what you said you were going on where the predecessors stopped and it was good to hear something that is so rarely heard that you thank your associates because the minister is as successful as his good associates are. But now my question. There is, among other things, a debate just below the radar of the topic of energy or the topic of the use of waste for heat energy or anything else, and that is the provision of Article 35, so I would very much like to hear from you what policy is, or what is the position and what is the idea of the Ministry? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98081	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash. The answer of the respected Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98082	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark-Taritash, for your question. So you know for yourself that for many years because of the various pressures of this area or just the use of energy in the Republic of Croatia in some way became taboo topic. We believe that this should not be so independent of the fact that such a concept will come upon the secure resistances of local communities but also of interested stakeholders that in Croatia there is more and more on any project. We believe that energy recovery of waste at some point will be our inevitable. And especially because of the fact that at this point in the area of two waste management centres, once in the Istrian area, and the second in the Primorje-Gorski County we have a pile of waste fuel that must be used in itself at some point, the price of its use abroad is extremely high, it is probably Parliament's representative Demetlika because one of them, on his own, in the area of his county but also Mr. Boric, therefore, we will have to go in this direction. There are certain plans on this subject but on that other occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98083	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98084	Dear Ministers, I would remind you that you are involved in politics if you were a politician and the stories of politicisation are all politics and nothing is politics. If that's what we're gonna talk about. So the debates here were very constructive and you can't do one of my interventions all the things that my colleague Dobrović said that was very constructive now, under the fact that there was some kind of politicization here. This is probably very few people are looking at right now, but I've had to react because of what's being said here. So there's no public competition scheduled for 17 months, and we're talking about something. And we're talking about the concept of circular economy, but what I can say and what I'm glad to say and what I heard from your speech is that distinguished experts like Mr. Mile Horvat of the SDSS were working on these legal proposals that tonight after this debate, I will sleep peacefully because Croatia and waste management are in the right hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98085	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. The answer of his colleague, Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98086	Here's Mr. Grmoy and yours and these few locks you've just brought out, they're now in favor of the thesis I put behind the pay phone. The fact that you're smiling because you've caused my reaction further determines me in that. So when I was talking about the expertise in that area, I was thinking about my assistant to Mrs. Anu-Marie Matak, who runs one of the administrations that are most important in my ministry on the subject. As you know, Mr. Horvat my dear associate is a political figure, you said the party he comes from, and if you have a problem with that, that's your problem. I reacted to the lie, if you want the lie you've told. In fact, in the last 16 months. As far as I'm at the head of the Ministry, I've led them to you, but you haven't listened because you've been commenting on the bench, four competitions have been opened, not one but four. So I believe you know the difference between those two numbers. During my predecessor and your colleague from Mr. Dobrovic's party, one was opened at the same time, but I would never have said it myself if you hadn't now you and he had pulled my tongue with his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98087	Thank you. [[/Attacka Djoric: And it's not politics, that's it. Thank you very much.]] I thank the Honorable Minister Mr. Coric. We have the next line, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98089	Thank you very much. I'm pleased to see you coming from the domain of more than one economic dimension. And that's where the key question is, what exactly does all citizens expect from waste disposal and that's the price of waste disposal? Following only signs of decision-making on the price of municipal waste exports, we see that prices of growth are undermining. They grow where they were 30 kuna to 60 kuna, 70 kuna in some environments will be something more, and then people are actually asking why, which is why, which is why, if it's taking care, someone said here 200 kuna at a dump in Vukovar that's being driven or somewhere else, it's just because the point is that we have to have a system of separation that what we say can be distributed somewhere. In order not to be one cost of the local community taken to one Hum on Sutla or one Belisce but it must be one system solidified one system. Without that, we will have a management plan and a price that citizens unfortunately have to pay for more than they will.... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98090	I thank my colleague Panenic. The answer of the respected Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98091	Mr. Panenic, I can agree with you in part of the presentation. So no one from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection will question the circulatory economy system. Everything we do, all the contests so far, the ones that you'll have the chance to see in the coming months are just heading towards reviving that concept. This previous Mr. Dobrovic unfortunately couldn't do it because his mandate was too short. So, of all the forms of infrastructure that I'm talking about, he encouraged the construction of recycling yards. Keep that in mind. All that's happening right now is that everyone else is now a thing, a thing of encouragement. What about the price of utility services? Yeah, she's growing up. It grows because we have not entered deep into the separation system, that is, the separation phase. The more that detachment becomes, the less the price increases will be. That infrastructure costs money. And don't forget, this system starts at a syntagma, on a paradigm, that the pollutant pays and it can't be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98092	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Coric for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98093	Thank you very much. Well, I just wanted to tell you that you're setting up this law, not to worry too much about what Most thinks, he's at a local level, and I can probably represent the interests of a recycling yard and possibly one resolution have, one mayor and one chief. And they don't understand, they don't understand that problem deeply, and that's how they behave. I think that, they tried to pollute this debate, especially a colleague of Thunder for his known reasons, although it was correct throughout the afternoon. And I think we've shown that we can point to some problems that arise and that the ministry can draw certain conclusions from that. That's why we insist on this. Their voices are no longer dependent. The bush has replaced its ministers twice, failed. All they knew failed to do so thanks to Niko who always thought that he from the opposition could lead the state. He can't, and every time he acts like an aunt, as soon as he's told something, he gets angry right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98094	Dear colleague Boric, you used the Institute of Replica, not to support the minister. I would ask you nicely to stay away from the abuses of the Replica Institute in such a way in the future. Also, as I told Mr. Grumoja, not in any way demeaning anyone. And keep your political views to yourself, please, and settle this with Mr. Grumoy for coffee. But here, Mr. Grmoya has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98095	Not only did counterpart Boris support the minister without replicating him, but he injured the article. 238nd colleague, so instead of replicating the minister, he was talking to me. I didn't have an individual discussion. You have been speaking to me by your colleague, I know that this exhibit of mine offends you very much in the Croatian Parliament and that you are in charge of playing Band-Aids on me. But you're doing bad, you're doing bad. You don't play well, you don't play well of the defensive binding patch, you see how this French plays in Chelsea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98096	Thank you, comrade Grmoy, for this information in the field of sports. Before you, I asked my colleague Boric, as I had warned you before and asked you and please do not extend this debate without any reason and without any direct need. We have the next replica of a respected colleague, Branko Juričev Martinchev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98097	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, when it comes to sustainable waste management, I would like to thank you and your team at the ministry for your work, given that we as a town of Vodice have recently signed a contract to resuscitate Lech, and I would like you to know and know that the city of Vodice has long since moved on with the separation and recycling of waste, and I would like to say that in this section relating to the incentive fee, for reducing the amount of mixed municipal waste, such cities, which have gone before, will certainly have fewer differences in these quantities than those that have never done so before. As it is known that the town of Vodice is a tourist resort, which each year has a higher number of guests' arrivals, we try to make our tourist season 365 days and thus we will certainly have an increasing amount of mixed waste, so please until the second reading, that in some way, these so-called. Incentive fees also process such cases so as not to be penalties for good tourist results.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98098	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev Martinchev. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98099	Here, just for a moment, MPs thank you very much and for your comment, but also for the information you gave us, a good part of the successful local self-government units that have been successful above all in the context of separation in the past period is in fear, or they have asked her at one point, whether they will be punished precisely for being successful. No, this regulation will be changed, in time and those units of local self-government that are earlier in the initial phase, rather than, say, the border period, have made a step much bigger than others like you Prelog or some others, whether, in any way, they will not be punished. Anyway, if you could, you'd rather have them on... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98100	I thank the Honorable Minister for his reply to the replica. We've exhausted all the debates on these two agenda points. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this point, that is, these points when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break to 20 hours and 35 minutes, when we move on. It's 20.22 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98101	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 429., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 35 abstentions and 10 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98219	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.38 HOURS]] We're continuing the plenary session. - Final bill on confirming amendments and additions to texts and annexes of II. to IX. Protocols on the prevention of eutrophication and terrestrial ozone acidification from 1999 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and the addition of new annexes X. and X.I., second reading, P.Z. No. 442. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to that Article, 207a, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is prescribed that the laws confirming international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are as a rule adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I'd like the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment and Energy of Honor, Mr. Mila Horvat, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98220	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives. The '79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. the year, otherwise referred to as the LRTAP Convention, is a key international legal framework for co-operation and measures aimed at limiting the gradual reduction and prevention of air pollution and its adverse effects on human and environmental health. The LRTAP Convention, which makes up the 8 protocols, is a party to the 7 protocols, including the acidification control Protocol, which was drawn up on 30 November '99. The year in Gettyburg, Sweden and the Republic of Croatia, signed the '99 Protocol. He entered into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 5 January 2009. Therefore, in order to confirm the amendment and the addition of the text of this Protocol, the addition of the Protocol and the introduction of new Annexes X and XI. The final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the text and Appendix II has been drawn up. to IX. Protocols on the prevention of acidification and Eurotrophication and ground-floor ozone and '99. the year with the '79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. the years and additions of new annexes X. and XI. The aim of the Protocol is to identify national ceilings and multi-polluter missions in order to prevent either to the minimum extent, or to minimise the cross-restriction of critical loads of acidification, loads of nutrient nitrogen and critical levels of ozone to human health and the environment. The above limits must be achieved by 2010 and thereafter, including sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane. So it's important here to say, the amendments and the amendments to the Protocol, the addition of the Protocol and the inserting of new Annexes X and XI. A stricter emission limit values shall be established for certain pollutants and particles from certain movable and immovable sources for the Parties to the Protocol by 2020 and thereafter. The amendments to the Protocol lay down new national emission reductions obligations for those pollutants and for floating particles to be achieved by 2020. Furthermore, the amendments to the Protocol promote the reduction of emissions to black carbon, update the emission limit values set out in the Annexes to the Protocol, establish new standards for content... in products and completes the obligation to report to the signatories on the emissions of pollutants in the air. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, the relevant national legislation already in force is in line with the amendments and amendments to the Protocol and we have three applicable regulations that regulate installations, small and medium-sized storage devices, namely the Regulation on limit values and emissions by polluting substances into air from fixed sources, the Regulation on national emission reduction obligations for certain pollutants in the air of the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation on the quality of liquid fuels and how to monitor reporting and the methodology of calculation of greenhouse gas emissions in the lifetime of supplied fuels and energy. So these are the three regulations which are the implementing acts of this Protocol in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these provisions give rise to assumptions for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the proposed draft law. As far as the additions X and XII are concerned. I will say that the addition of the X. is arranged, the addition of the emission limit values, dust, or floating particles from small, medium and large storage devices, refineries, cements, limes, primary production of iron and steel, cast iron, production and processing of coloured metals, burning of waste, production of titaniumdioxide. In accordance with the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, it is therefore appropriate to amend the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in accordance with the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. This Protocol shall regulate the definitions and limits of emissions of volatile organic compounds in products such as paints and varnishes for the final processing of the vehicle. Therefore, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor will there be significant increases in costs for legal entities as the existing legislative framework defines the obligations of all stakeholders and will not increase the implementation of the law. In fact, large industrial plants have consumed transitional periods for compliance with the standards of this Directive and small storage devices, for them a certain transitional period for compliance with the provisions of this Directive is prescribed until 2025 and by 2030, depending on the strength of the device. This, as the vice president said, is about ratifying an international document that goes into one reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98221	I would like to thank Mr Horvat's esteemed secretary of state. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Stephen Curry be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98222	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as this is about the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Detachment from 79th, which was concluded under the auspices of the UN Economic Mission for Europe, I am interested in asking whether BiH is a signator of the Protocol. And why is that? Because it might be the basis for the lawsuit for the apparent and obvious pollution of our citizens and air in Slavonski Brod, thus reducing the quality of life, not to mention the economic aspect and price of real estate and everything they do here, but above all to human health. Is it possible to force a neighbouring country to then make certain procedures for a private person to solve this burning problem of tens and tens of thousands of people? Can this Convention be used as an international contract because we know that international contracts have special extralegal power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98223	I thank my colleagues Curaju. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Horvat, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98224	I thank you, Your Honor. So, according to us, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a signator of this Protocol. If it were, then there would probably be a tool or legal mechanism to come up with a solution like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98225	Thank the Secretary of State, Mr Horvath, for this answer. Next replica, respected colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98226	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. This text, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Text and Supplements, etc. is given in Croatian, of course, but the translation is also accompanied by the original in English. Is there a reason why it's an international convention, so it's important to have an original or some other reason, and what if we have a translation difference? So what's the valid variant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98227	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. Secretary of State Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98228	Thank you, Reverend Professor. A benefactor. So we've talked about it more than once, and you've raised that question on the board today. So we're aware there's a difference in translation. The fact is that the expression of pollution has been translated into all the international acts that we have translated so far. In domestic legislation, this statement was used in some 20 directives we used it. I agree that this statement may have to be defined differently, or as you said it was originally translated, but the question is, how do you agree all these international acts with that translation? So we are fully aware of the intensities of your observations, but right now the situation is like this and we have 20 international documents or directives that used this statement behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98229	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Felak, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98230	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed fellow MPs. Right at the beginning, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Final Bill on Confirming Amendments and Supplements from 2nd to 9. Protocols on the prevention of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone from 1999 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and the addition of new annexes 10 and 11. The Convention on Long-term Transboundary Air Contamination is the main international framework for cooperation and measures to limit the gradual reduction and prevention of air pollution. Eight special protocols have been added since the 1979 signing. Among other things, the 1999 Protocol on the control of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone. On behalf of the European Union, the Council approved this Protocol in June 2003, which is also known as the Gettyborg Protocol. In short, this Law confirms the amendments and additions to the Protocol, the Protocol Supplements and the introduction of new Annexes 10 and 11 to their provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Protocol contains legally binding obligations to reduce emissions of certain pollutants in the air. The amendments and additions to the Protocol, the Protocol Supplements and the introduction of new Annexes 10 and 11 shall set out in particular stricter emission limits for certain pollutants and particles from certain mobile and fixed sources for the Parties to the Protocol by 2020 and thereafter. The relevant national legislation of the Republic of Croatia, which is already in force, is in line with the amendments and amendments to the Protocol, thus achieving the assumptions for meeting the obligations that will result from the proposed bill, which will contribute to the ultimate objective, further improving the protection of human health and the environment. Once again, the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98231	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Felix, for the next debate, on behalf of the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98232	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome once again the Secretary of State and Associate. Therefore, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the text and Appendix II. to IX. Protocols on the prevention of acidification, eutrophication and terrestrial ozone gas from 1999 to the Convention on Long-range cross-border pollution and not air pollution from 1979 and the addition of new additives. So, about the content itself, yes, here are summed up many substances, many contaminants that need to be addressed in many areas, and here all these areas are mentioned from the laundromats to the flow of fuel, boilers or boilers to burn this and where new obligations are defined, so they provide conditions for these activities. And it's perfectly justified, it's based on environmental observations and on the bad tendencies or statistics that are happening so that we today can mark I don't know, in genders, on how faraway areas, traces of these far-reaching contaminants. Basically, there's no problem with this, and we're willing to support it, of course. However, we have one problem with terminology. I think that each country has been very carefully caring for its own language and Croatia has long had a very important and professional and scientific so-called and economic activity in the areas of environmental protection and long known terms of pollution or pollution as different concepts and in all our dictionaries. We teach students at the university about this difference and ultimately, there is such a difference in all those conventions that come, so the radius is pollution and contamination is contamination. And now that we look, it's lost in our time there I don't know when we started taking over legislation that covers this area and we have a total mess. Last year was the Law I think, for environmental protection, we gave one amendment, of course the amendment can't solve it, but we wanted to encourage the legislator to handle it, it requires one effort but it's for a country that holds onto itself, important. Because if our students go to refer to the law, then they'll say what you're teaching us, it doesn't say, it's different there, then water directives include it in one way, and these air pollution laws on the other, where you're totally avoiding one of the concepts. So, I urge you to deal with it and put it in order because what kind of country we are if the legislator doesn't respect his language. There, and I will no longer appreciate the time of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98233	I thank my esteemed colleague, Slaven Dobrovic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98234	Here's a thank you, very briefly just to supplement myself, thank you, Vice President. So, since you've answered my question that since BiH is not a signator of this protocol so we don't have that basis for the lawsuit, I'd like to, I'm actually interested, given that I came across the Internet that somewhere in the 3rd month. It was also an initiative to conduct a debate in the UN and in fact to recognise the right of a man to a healthy environment or the environment as one of the fundamental rights, whether it is somewhere in some debate, which is our role here because I really believe that we have grounds for an international lawsuit for a really serious violation of the health and quality of our fellow citizens towards the neighbouring country. I would absolutely like it to be one of the priorities both of the foreign policy and of our city and the participation in the UN if there is already something that needs to be done in that direction to acquire it because we know that only when it comes to money, that things will start to work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98235	Thank you, dear colleague Curai. I would like to close the debate, thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Mila Horvat, and the Head of the Service, Mr. Marija Stipetic, for further reasons and for the answers and parliamentary representatives. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98236	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements of 2-9th Protocol on the Prevention of Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground Ozon from 1999 to the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and the addition of new Supplements 10 and 11, second reading, P.Z. No. 442, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on that bill, please let us vote. ... No, no, wait a minute, now we're gonna vote and then you're gonna answer. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, you didn't pick up on time. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, the law has been passed unanimously. I find that 111 votes have unanimously passed that law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98237	Well, thank you for giving it to me anyway. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club related to the previous point, I'm sorry, you've seen The HSS Club did not vote, and I am sorry that we are re-adopting certain air pollution protection protocols, and still citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod are inhaling polluted air. [[Adversity President: you can't for the previous point, you can't.]] That's why I asked for a break to warn that problem again. Both yesterday and today have increased particle concentrations pm10 and pm 2.5, again have drained the data out that through the tracking project... Citizens of the city of SB and the wider environment have increased problems with citizens from respiratory organs, heart, cancer in men in SB is higher than in the entire Republic of Croatia, and it must be said that it is not enough to adopt protocols only, but also something concrete to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these reasons, I asked for a break because here's the gasification of the refinery because it's
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98238	Comrade Vlaović, stop, now stop. [[/Intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98239	The president promised it would be settled in three months, and it hasn't been settled in a year and a half. Because of the citizens of the city of SB, you should have given me a break because this is how you disrespect the citizens of the city of SB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98240	Please, so you're using the Rules of Procedure. Stanka is wanted for consultation on the agenda point, and not because of something else you've mentioned now, so I have a lot of understanding for the citizens of SB and please don't work in that way that's very incorrect and you're attacking me for something that doesn't matter to you... So even if what you said were true, it wouldn't give you reason for a break because a break is required for consultation, not a debate on a subject. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. Let's move on. ... I didn't give the citizens of the ship and stop throwing and abusing in this way the possibility of you talking here from the bench. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He can't do anything. Let's move on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleagues and fellow MPs. ... [[You're not our school professor.]] Stop now please speak this way yelling from the bench without getting a word [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Beljak raid: You have neglected, you are neglecting parliamentary representatives.]] Comrade Beljak, you'll get a warning, don't do this. [[Beljak: Well, I'm not yelling, but you're giving us a hand, so we're not your students, Mr. Jandrokovic.]] Your colleague Vlaovic has abused his Rules of Procedure [[Beljak: So you can give me a warning a hundred times so you didn't choose me.]] Don't tell lies. [[White male: That's not true. You abused your glasses because you didn't look at two minutes of man holding hands in the air and treating us like you chose us.]] He tells me one and the other colleagues who are in charge of it that it's not true. Well, I'll take a look. [[Intruder Whitey: What?.]] [[Intruder: You have the video, look.]] Wait a minute, just a little buddy of the Grmois. You've been contacted before by a colleague named Curaj for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98241	The President-in-Office was injured by the Rules of Procedure by several items, item 232 is about a subject that is not subject to discussion, item 238 is being disrupted by the work of the Parliament. Namely the speech in question the fellow had an opportunity when there was a point on the agenda, there were no sitting, I personally spoke the same and just connected that law to the pollution in SB and if they were here they would know exactly what it was and how it... I even mentioned the possibility of a lawsuit... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that protocol [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98242	I warned my colleague Vlaovic, so we've already taken care of it. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98243	Dear Chairman, I would ask for everything to calm down the tensions, but Mr. Vlaovic, or Col. Vlaovic, is absolutely right. He asked for a break, he asked for... Mrs Pusic will allow you, you are nervous because I am questioning your role in an affair in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs where Prime Minister Plenkovic is defending you, please allow me to address my colleagues and the chairman. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98244	All right, you got one more second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98245	Well, it took my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98246	No, it's not. You've pollemized with Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98247	You didn't warn me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98248	Okay, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98249	I would like to say that colleague Vlaovic has asked for a break to be consulted on whether his club will vote in favour of the protocol and this report It's true, and you wouldn't let him. [[President: No, that's not true. You're telling total lies.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98250	No, he said something completely different about why he was looking for a break, so please sit down. Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98251	Your Honor, Mr. President, there have been two injuries to the Rules of Procedure and both injuries have been committed by you. One applies to Article 248 and the other to Article 238, so I will proceed with this 248. So during the vote you noticed Mr. Vlaovic coming forward, at which point you should have suspended the vote and allowed him to request a break, that's the first. So during the agenda point because voting is part of the agenda item to which it relates. Secondly, if you have already told Mr. Vlaovic a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then you should have told Mr. Curaja about the same thing in article 238. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98252	Time's up. Okay. Now we're gonna stop with the Rules of Procedure's injuries, and I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. If you think I am, you know what your options are to confirm this and contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98253	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on host activity, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, based on Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. I call upon the representative of the proposer, State Secretary of the Tourism Ministry, Mr. Tonchi Glava, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal of the law. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98254	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, good evening to you. The draft final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on Hosting Activity, the Law on Hosting Activity shall be governed by the manner and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out catering activities. The basic issues proposed by the final proposal of the Law are the following, the first very important point is the harmonisation of the standards of the owners' facilities which have come up with the Decision on the authorisation to provide catering services in the household since 1 September 2007 in accordance with the applicable Regulation on the classification and categorisation of the facilities in which catering services in the household are provided with the current same rules, thus equating the standard of facilities in which catering services in the household are provided. Also, the component of the standard harmonisation is prescribed as an option rather than a obligation for the tenant, because a tenant who will not want to submit a compliance request for reasons that do not have or do not want to invest additional funds in the object's setting up of standards or objects may not have a spatial capacity to raise standards, allows for the continuation of the provision of catering services without the right to use the star category label. Furthermore, giving the possibility to carry out catering activities, in addition to special hospitals and hospitals and other health institutions, trade societies for performing health activities and healthcare professionals who carry out private practice on their own, in accordance with specific rules governing health care. Then, editing of new types of household facilities and on the family farm, a Robinson accommodation facility. Furthermore, granting the Minister of Tourism the power to prescribe specific standards for household facilities and family agriculture, thus achieving a variety of accommodation offers tailored to the needs and interests of individual guest groups. Then, addressing the problem of accommodation of seasonal and field workers, in order to carry out jobs in such a way that it will not be considered the same by providing catering accommodation services if they use their own premises or such accommodation will not be subject to the provisions of this Act. Furthermore, catering activities will not be considered to organise accommodations for participants of domestic or international art programmes, which are organised in their own facilities by institutions of culture, associations or other cultural organisations, with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Culture. Afterwards, more effective application in the practice of the provision, which suggests that it is the provision of catering services in the household where owners in their properties allow more than 15 persons who are not members of their family's rope in tourist resorts from 15 June to 15 September. Then, the possibility of providing services for more than 80 persons or issuers in the family holding to organise appropriate traditional celebrations and events up to 10 times during the calendar year, with the application of a local inspection service and as proposed by the provider in a certain way. Furthermore, giving authority to oversee the ban on camping outside camps and areas designated for camping outside camps and municipal directors. And the introduction of respect for the conduct of tourist inspectors towards service providers, perpetrators of the infringements by applying the principle of opportunity, therefore, by prescribing the possibility of removing irregularities and deficiencies identified in inspection supervision without punishment. Then, compared to the text of the Law proposal which passed the first reading here in the Croatian Parliament, the text of the final proposal of the Law created some differences, as a consequence of respecting the position presented in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies during the first reading as changes made by the promoters. On this occasion, I would really like to thank all the MPs who participated in a very constructive discussion at the first reading, who gave us some suggestions and comments that we greatly respected in this Law. Therefore, the proposals of Representative Anton Kleman were accepted on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and MPs Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Civil Liberal Alliance and the Croatian Party of Retired in the Croatian Parliament, and it is related to the proposal to delete the provision of Article 33, the applicable Law in Article 8, the final proposal of the Law, for the reason that eradicating those provisions from the Law could lead to an increase in abuse and illegal rental of apartments, apartments and holiday houses, in a way that the same, something amended, as set out in Article 8, is now the final proposal of the Law. In the name of the Club of Representatives of the Civil Liberal Alliance and of the Croatian Party of Pensioners in the Croatian Parliament, and of the representative Mladen Mađer, Domagoj Mikulić, Mira Bulj, Ivan Lovrinović, Ante Babić, related to restrictions on the provision of catering services to family farms affecting rural tourism, in such a way that it can be proposed on the family holding can provide exceptional services for more than 80 persons of the excursions to organise appropriate traditional celebrations and events, not as in the current law, but no more than 10 times during the calendar year. The amendment to the provisions of Article 13, amending Article 39(3) of the applicable Law, proposes further incentives for the development of rural tourism and the increased placement of domestic products in catering to increasingly varying expectations and needs of tourists. Furthermore, the applicant has completed Article 17 of the final proposal of the Law, amending and supplementing the provisions of Article 44, so that the Court of Justice does not delay the enforcement of the Decision in which the tourist inspector, in the event that the deficiencies and irregularities identified in inspection supervision are not removed in the previous period, prohibits the provision of catering activities to the catering facility, i.e. the provision of individual catering services in the facility, which determines the deficiencies and irregularities, while the deficiencies and irregularities identified are not addressed. This supplement, in essence, removes the present possibility of delaying the procedure and not acting on the solution, by submitting the complaint. In addition, by adding a new Article 15, in the final proposal of the Law supplementing Article 42, the Proposer gave authority to oversee the prohibition of camping outside camps and areas designated for camping outside camps and communal directors, thus enabling more effective surveillance of illegal camping. Therefore, all these amendments to the law are proposed to develop and strengthen the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism. In order to implement the law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources either in the state budget or in the budgets of the local self-government unit. So the proposal is ours in this distinguished House to accept this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98255	I thank the honourable secretary of state, Mr. Glava, we have several replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98256	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, assistant associate. A local question from Split, which I am interested in, is how the process of recategorising private accommodation will be carried out. We know that in Split we have a large number of rooms and holiday apartments, which may not meet these new conditions for room squares, and especially when we talk about Split, we must mention the large number of rooms and apartments in the old town centre where the extension of modules and rooms is almost impossible. So I'm curious, is that why they'll be prevented from providing accommodation services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98257	I thank my esteemed colleague Bačić, Secretary of State Glavin's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98258	I appreciate the question. So the legislator predicted that this whole process of retegorization was well time-prepared, so it would be spent at intervals, in a few years so that it really gives all the renters the opportunity to adapt and have enough time to complete the whole process. And as for retegorisation in the midst of historical cores or historical cities and so on, that legislator provided for certain exceptions, so that if any problems arise in terms of squares or spatial constraints, those in these areas absolutely cannot affect that so-called. retegorization.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98259	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98260	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. I am pleased to see how you have appreciated the comments from the first reading regarding the number of possible organised traditional celebrations and events on our OPGs from 5 to 10 times during the calendar year will certainly contribute to the higher placement of domestic products, additional development and tourism in the rural area. But also, given that we as 5 Slavonian counties have set out to brand Slavonia as one tourist unit, I am interested in what further measures are foreseen just for continental tourism, which is far behind in view of this other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98261	Thank you, Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98262	Thank you. Yes, we've just taken care of all your comments about the O.P.G., I think we've made a very good quality solution. As far as continental tourism is concerned, that the Ministry of Tourism is in its programme and in this mandate, both at the beginning and in the programme of the government of the Republic of Croatia, has made it very clear that our ultimate goal is to develop tourism for the Republic of Croatia as an entire year's tourist destination. And just a very important role is continental tourism. As far as continental tourism is concerned, several different measures are being implemented, firstly, as regards these private tenants that we are talking about in particular now, we have envisaged special lending for them, in which we will have secured preferential and subsidized interest. Then, we implement the programme only on continental counties in the form of a tourism cycle of more than 5 million kn, which is only for continental counties and in a package of new tourism laws, the reorganisation of tourist communities systems, in the form of pooling of tourist destinations and representation as such at the level of the world level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98263	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98264	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you also said in your presentation one of the key things that we can't really agree on. The rest is all I think... It is actually about Article 5 and we are talking about half boards and pensions full of boarders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also go with the amendment in this direction, to think about, really, to enable further use but, that possibility, without formal registration, because it is extremely expensive, especially where tourism is in the beginnings, or where there is no alternative. We can't in some mountainous mountainous areas, when we talk here and in this law we introduce a Robinson term, there's no alternative, there's no restaurant where people can go to eat. And now to prescribe that someone has to register that they have a restaurant to allow people to eat, that's what I think, and there we have to have absolute hearing about such situations and there will be an amendment in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98265	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Curaju, Secretary of State General's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98266	As far as we're concerned, we've talked a lot in our first reading, so the goal we want to achieve with this part of the law is to ensure with God the protection of our guests for the sake of health care and every other, market protection of our guests, so on. at least equal treatment of all catering entities and we must have some basis and some basic minimum of technical conditions that we must meet, as our guests also knew which services they receive. So, no, I wouldn't agree with you if it were significantly more expensive, so registration itself, so they have to have a physical ability to provide such services, it's an investment they've already made. So now it's just some additional registration, like either a company or a trade or an OPG, and in any case, they can and are able to continue providing these services. We do not aim to prevent them from doing so, our goal is to provide these services, but to provide them at both the level and the category they need and not to be and to provide these services, not only for their guests, but also for the wider area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98267	I thank the Secretary of State. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98268	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, since there is a reorganisation, in a way that is done by a great inspectorate, according to what I have had the opportunity to read through a public debate and inspection which, from the aspect of protection or from the aspect of tourism, also goes to this great state inspectorate if I am not mistaken. If it's any change, I'd be happy to hear about it. And now by law you've actually introduced these poor communal directors that it's just as well they're the ones who will oversee camping and beyond the space they're meant for camp. So I'm wondering if it's really so that your inspection goes to the grand inspectorate? That's the first part of the question. The second part of the question, which so far has been in the direction of municipal directors, or is this the first time that something in the field of tourism is becoming a communal director's ingenuity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98269	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98270	Thanks for asking. Yeah, you're right. Tourist inspection goes in, will be an integral part of the new State Inspectorate as it was before, and we believe that this is a great step in essentially improving the control of all catering service providers and accommodation of food and drink services and so on. So we hope that this will also encourage the prevention of black or unregistered activities. In the second part, I also remember your question from the first debate when we had about the OPGs, so give me a chance to answer that for those 80 guests as we got to that number. And we came to that number simply because in the OPG Act we allow them to register up to 20 beds in fixed solid beds and 60 more beds in installing beds for those who provide camping services. Well, I took the opportunity to tell you that part, and I know you're very interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98271	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98272	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I'd just look back on that last part of yours. It means an impact assessment on the budget. This whole bill actually with the budget he practically has nothing. We're talking about renters, about providing services, about all of this means I think you should primarily look back at what that has to do with these very economic operators. Because what we're talking about is the budget, of course, that might be of interest to the Minister of Finance whether it's less or less. But indeed the entire Croatian public and us who are here are primarily all interested in economic operators how it will be simpler for them, how to facilitate their actual functioning, in fact what financial it brings them. Here I would be and in the same direction will go our amendment which colleague Curaj suggested, but that's exactly what we have those who will be difficult exactly in both the financial and the organisational parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98273	I thank my colleague Panenic. Secretary of State General's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98274	Well, yeah, you're basically right. It will have a strong impact on the incomes of all economic operators. That's exactly one of the goals we're carrying out. Namely, if you look at the analysis that we have regarding all service providers in the Republic of Croatia, catering facilities whether to talk about accommodation or diets that deal with higher or high quality services if we talk about facilities 4 to 5 stars we see that they have the best fill, we see that they have the best return to investment and that as economic operators do the best work. It is also the goal and intensity of this Law and this retegorization and all of what we propose today to raise the price by raising the quality of all our service providers. Of course, to raise prices, by raising the price of having greater economic benefits for their economic operators or family budgets for these services they provide because we are sure that by raising quality they get better guests, bigger revenues and therefore much greater influence for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98275	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, Secretary of State with his associates... I don't think we can really say here about this law that he's going to be having political debates. [[You don't understand.]] Here we are having discussions about exactly the situation in that part that depends significantly on the needs that arise on the market and we see now and the problems that arise. Of course there used to be a time when we held discussions about subsidising the tourist offer, the catering offer, about starting that economic segment. Now we are already talking about a more advanced state when it comes to dealing with demand, which is growing qualitatively, quantitatively, and where the answers should be given. At that time, we only remember well I was moving as the head of the development agency to encourage people to deal with rural tourism, to pretend that their property they have is in some way cashing in, that the one of their products that create it to try to sell it better actually get a higher price for it, might achieve some extra income to which another activity is. That's what I'd say, and I'd say a hint of guidance, about the support they've been getting, a number of people are on their way, and they're achieving their goals. However, he would disagree in the very analysis of the proposal when it was mentioned we remained on the standard 20 years ago. Perhaps this is the standard of some hotel accommodations which are located in some areas of Croatia did not find the right owners who recognized the need for investment, so in the end we may have to be ashamed with such an offer where we would certainly like to have a maybe lower standard by looking at the equipment and that it is in the quality of what is presented. But we can't be the ones who have to accept here that the Ministry of Tourism, with its proposal, is an arbiter. Arbitrator's a market. If an offer does not match the market, the market will sanction it and we see a very good and capacity-fulfilment is just bound to where they are not satisfied there slowly lagging behind demand. You've just said it yourself on the highest quality content of demand is growing, the filling is good, and I think we're here on our own, we're not replicating ourselves, now we have a second chance, we've set ourselves up already, to say enough criteria. So I would actually try to avoid a grade like this. I will also refer to this part already started by my colleague Curaj, and here we discussed the amendment of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists was also addressed. We were just going to ask questions about half boards and pensions that were being discussed a lot and one key question is, what are we going to do with the lost income of all those who have provided half board and pension services so far? Is it safe for the Ministry of Tourism that in the immediate vicinity of such facilities where guests came, nights that service, we can assure them that they have the same service or we will actually condemn certain less tourist-developed areas, areas that I simply cannot offer. But I'll tell you what will happen, of course that Croatian entrepreneur, he's when he's positive legislation, he's trying to respect him maximumly, but here he'll get to a black zone. So you will continue to offer products as before, not to be shown in the invoice as half board or board but you will get one price at which you will be given so whoever comes only for breakfast, he will have a price of 100 kuna, the one who took half board, will have 150, the one who is full of board, will have 200 kuna, meaning there will only be one entrepreneurial skill or the worse scenario will happen, which is that such a service will be paid on the spot which, in fact, Minister Maric will not be able to intervene at all or achieve income from the VAT position or some other incomes that can be realised. So I believe that this is one of the provisions that we have directed to develop in a direction that definitely the entrepreneurs did not want but that they will find the answer, we see that they always do. So what do we do? Then we'll send them inspections, inspections that should look for exactly that kind of mistake and then sanction them. It is the article 47 that you partially touched that is one of the more controversial ones in this law because it covers a wide range of penalties that apply. And they pay the fines. I mean the range when you take that punishment that someone has the opportunity to punish in the range of 2.5 thousand to 20 thousand kuna is very large for someone smaller service provider 20 thousand kuna can mean the end of his attempt to establish a certain offer. But what bothers me especially is that it's an extended punishment. Before it was on a certain, what you had in the previous law is a certain offense that has special weight. So they have a particular weight, and for them, the possibility of double penalties was envisaged. This is where we put all the double fines. Now imagine someone coming into the catering facility and ordering a drink, bringing him a beer or a bottle of wine and he takes it out, the inspector punishes you as a caterer. How many times has this happened? I mean, we can't really be that sometimes we're going to leave room for the inspector on the ground that I don't know he didn't point out working hours and someone being punished with 40,000 kuna. We're just here, I think we're out of the space we should be. And I'm going to look back at one part that applies to normatives, and they've become something that's just form. Instead of dealing with the basic content of a particular dish, we list up to one milligram of salt, to one milligram of a certain law instead of saying that the key ingredient is actually what interests and consumables. If he orders, I don't know a certain Vienna steak, he's interested in the amount of meat. That as much as someone put on a crumb more or less or a little bit more salt or some other supplement, I think it's irrelevant. You should think about getting rid of that part in the future because these norms have become nothing but form. And it remains, here I am going slowly to end one unknown, which is advertising and advertising services with EU taxpayers where the tax number must be highlighted or the VAT, identification number, or OIB. I can't just figure out how to see an ad on a pano and it says "OIB" or "tax" there. It's something like that for me, I end up marketing by profession, and it's something strange to me, I don't know what that would mean there, who does it mean to me. If the tax collector will be able to read it better and understand it only to them but to one user of those services, any of them will actually be unknown to what should happen with that number, how it belongs to a certain offer he has. So that leaves one open question, I hope until the vote that maybe there's going to be a detail to think about. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98277	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Tomislav Sauch, has a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98278	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates, as well as his associates, pardon his associates, dear colleagues. I tried to replicate my fellow Panenic, and I was still thinking in the context of that old Rules of Procedure, so now I'm going to take this opportunity to replicate. I don't think it's bad for the Ministry of Tourism, however, to need the Ministry of Tourism to arbitration and when it comes to the standard, because although I agree with you, it's precisely the market that will ultimately give a crucial vote, i.e. Someone's gonna rent some apartments or not. When it comes to categorization for which the state stands, so the stars, I think those stars, I said so in my first debate and in my first reading, these stars must mean the same thing everywhere in Croatia, so if some apartments acquired their categorization 20 years ago, if there were additional investments in the meantime, I don't think it will be a problem to reaffirm that categorization. And those who won't want it will simply stay out of that system of categorization and nothing, they will still be able to advertise on the market on relevant platforms such as... RBNB, etc. and eventually it will be the consumer who will bring the final judgment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we're thinking in the HNS club that this is a good bill, we're going to support it, I'm glad that some proposals from the MPs were respected, and I'm sorry that it wasn't a concrete proposal that I made on behalf of the HNS, so we decided at the HNS Club that we would go with one amendment. There are certain locations in Croatia where it is quite difficult or impossible to expect that in some immediate vicinity there will be an adequate catering facility and on the other hand it is trying to promote one new branch of tourism, it is Robinson tourism which in itself means that it is required to be located in an outpost position, such as where it is not so populated and so developed, it is precisely the meaning of Robinson tourism, then we say that such renters cannot provide half board or pension services. Of course, they remain able to open up the company and in some way legalize it. to invest in this food drive, but this will create additional costs and we are somehow thinking that, in any case, entrepreneurs should, in this case, facilitate business conditions rather than further complicated. It is also a little illogical that these same tenants are given the opportunity to provide breakfast services. Now that breakfast when you talk about the need to raise the level of preparation of this food to a certain level to protect guests from I don't know, I guess, technical, sanitary conditions etc., that the sanitary conditions are also the technical conditions to be better, and look, for breakfast can be quite complex, it doesn't always have to be just I don't know, butter and jam, there can be eggs and various complex dishes so that if someone can, if they have the conditions to prepare an omelet, and then has the conditions to turn the lamb for lunch or I don't know, to bake fish, I don't see why fish or lamb is less. more dangerous than eggs. But well, I don't think it is now, I think you said being as much as I remember, that you did an analysis that such objects have relatively little in Croatia, I was, for example, in one such facility a few years ago, I guess that this gentleman will probably not be so much of a problem being reregistered and made out of it a catering facility of that kind, although it also takes away some other conjectures, so as far as I know, that form should then have some permanent employees, etc., it's a little different tax regime but good. I hope you will continue to consider this amendment of ours. Other things that have been said, I'm glad that the standard is even, I think it's important for us as a tourist destination, that it strengthens us as a tourist destination, that the guest simply needs to know if the state is standing with a certain categorization, what will it get in terms of some standard of squareness of a located object, equipment etc. That's good, it's good, I think that Croatia is among the rare countries, tourist countries where really when I say there's no, 3 stars, you know very well that you'll always get the same or 4 stars, the quality of service, while in some other tourist countries, as far as I know from my own experience, it's not like there's a lot of examples where you pay 3 stars, you get something awful, so I think it's something that's as important to us as a country that relys on economic tourism and as I said it was, when I first discussed this topic, I guess the ministry, I don't suppose, but I'm sure the Ministry of Tourism knows exactly what it's doing, so here we'll also believe in terms of these questions of that half board that you know what you're doing, that there won't be some bad consequences for those entrepreneurs. It is good that the comments of MPs are adopted that more than 80 persons can be provided on the OPGs, I think you should also be flexible and since this is about a more popular type of tourism, it means providing not only excursion services but also accommodation and, in principle, everything else that follows the family economy. So we figured out at the HNS club that the aim of this law is to raise the quality of catering services and standards... the facilities in which the catering services and the equal position of the tenant on the market are held. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going back to these service providers, pensioners, half boards, I don't think they were that big of a threat to local restaurants, but, well, here's what's left of you to think about this proposal, because on some islands, especially when we look at the Kornati archipelago, you won't be able to tell someone you've provided accommodation services that I don't know, goes to a restaurant that's around the corner, because there's no corner, there's no restaurant either. So that would be about it. So as I said, the HNS Club will support this law, but also, we have submitted the amendment and we expect it to be considered and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98279	I thank my esteemed colleague, Satsuhi, for this debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Anton Kleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a nice greeting to everyone who stayed in Parliament and colleagues from the ministry. The HDZ Club will support this law in the second reading, but this would look back a little on some of the remarks we made during the first reading. And we would refer to those proposals that you have accepted on some of the additional arguments that are now set out in the law itself. So, we welcome all that you have during the debate for first reading now introduced into the law, and that is not erasing that article. 33rd, therefore, that inspectors practically, to erase at all, the control of holiday homes that are not in the reporting system of tourists in the houses themselves. I think that's good I think that's where we showed one consciousness and sent a message to the tenants that the inspection will also take care of those we call black renters, i.e. those who destroy the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and who are, of course, the tax gray zone. And that's very good and therefore the aspect I think should show that the Ministry of Tourism and the tourism inspection itself has the strength to deal with such rebates. It is also very good to have this novel where you have introduced and accepted the comments that the OPG can provide services for more than 80 people which you have explained in the article itself. It means that more than 10 times during the calendar year, such a event can be held and this is very good for competition in the rural area. What you'd like to emphasize is that... private accommodation is certainly a good thing, it has been promoted for several years and will, in any case, contribute to the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and the destination itself, but I would like to stress that I hope that this is the first step in the rekatogirization itself, because we have an additional job to restructure tourist products through the regotigarisation itself, which is to approach the second step of recalibrating the formation of tourist products of a diffuse hotel, an integrated hotel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's the key then where we can structurally go out into the market where we can sell them as some added value and thus allow the tenants themselves to enter the higher bid. This seems to me a key move in these two steps to increase competitiveness and give our renters a chance to better perform on the tourist market, which is more and more demanding from day to day. So I think we should think about it now and in this next step, and I think it's going to come very quickly, since we're going to establish an institute or an organisational form of a state inspectorate that we're going to have to change this law, as well as a lot of other laws, so we're going to take this opportunity to see if there's anything we can do about it. And also consider that the OPGs that are now covered by this law, to see if the OPGs on the continent and the OPGs in the coastal part of Croatia can be resolved. It is not the same competitiveness of the OPGs on the continent, therefore, such as the OPGs in the Primorje. We have to understand this simply, Croatia is not evenly developed, we have 98% of tourism traffic on the coast, only 2% of traffic is on the continent and we have to make a differentiation in the laws themselves. We need to give our OPGs on the continent more chances, think about it in a tax sense, but also in terms of the laws themselves, to enable them to function as easily as possible, as easily as possible, and in that sense, we should think about it that way. Here, I'd also like to think about what my colleagues just said from the HNS Club and the Bridge Club, and we need to think about where this service that we've limited to not giving half boards, full pensions, where it really is necessary for it to be, if there is absolutely no service provider, no accommodation, no harm in its competitiveness. This has to sit down, think about how to solve it, we have an e-visitor, we have quality data, maybe the best quality in the country as far as tourist traffic is concerned, so we can make a very good conclusion, because if you don't disrupt competitiveness on some Robinson tourism, and who doesn't disrupt competitiveness on some island where there's no restaurant, then I really think it would be necessary to provide the possibility for service providers in family accommodation to provide a complete service. So there must be one effort. It's hard to handle one law. But here we need to find a model where we will ensure a certain possibility of doing business in family accommodation where it does not disrupt competitiveness. Here would be some kind of remark. But I'm holding that in some next step you should think about it. I think the Ministry has the capacity, has the power to do it, and these are the ends-ends you saw for yourself and in this house in the debates, but also in the public were the biggest remarks about it. And that's why there are laws to change. It's the Ministry that gives regulation. Here with this recategorization I welcome her as a first step. I think it's going in the right direction and in any case I repeat once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this law in another reading. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98281	Thank you, dear colleague Kleman. Next debate on behalf of the Glas and HSU Representatives Club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98282	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an assistant and an associate. Here is the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act. It's one of the laws that has been challenged in the first reading, and I would say the debate that was good, which was constructive and which went in the sense of improving the proposal that was and I must also admit in a certain way that you listened carefully and what was obviously assessed as acceptable as such and accepted from the point of view of the ministry. So tourism is even as a branch of activity in Croatia. It's extremely important because there are parts of the country where we have certain traditions. But there are parts of the country where these traditions are established. In doing so, I primarily think of continental tourism where another type of tourism is being established and it is good that we help both the catering activity and what is happening. I, of course, welcome all those remarks that you accepted between the first and second readings. Once again, I think it is important to stress that in this Law or amendments to this Law have arisen from the experience you have had and the problems you have encountered. I must admit that I am underlining something special that has been particularly recommended in the spatial planning system with regard to some catering tourist zones, which is the accommodation of seasonal workers. I am, personally, even some work that has turned, and not just a simple article, which means accommodation of seasonal workers, which means when you take them with your capacities, which is why I stress once again that it is good that in law we have it for the simple reason that there has always been a debate about how they are being set up, which is there, especially when you go to some destinations like the island. What does the capacity for building areas even mean? Because what we need to know is, we need to know that these are some people, that they're some people who will come and work. And it's good that it's defined this way in this law. It's a good thing that's been taken care of. I would actually after all these in a certain way and commendation refer to maybe two to three things. The first thing is that happy or unfortunate inspection. We see the role of inspection as someone who comes and punishes. When the inspections started to work, I could always speak out of my field, then they had some kind of advisory role. They had some kind of educational significance. So when they came to the field, they admitted that someone might have made a mistake, he wasn't informed enough, and I think we should continue to experience the inspection that way. I'm one of those guys who doesn't think the inspectorate is going to make a difference with the secretary of state who said it was good to go to the grand inspectorate, and I'm not quite sure about that, but fine. We have this habit of going this way a little bit and a little bit that way. That result that we go first is sectoral inspections, then in the grand inspectorate. The result is that they don't work until they're organized, and on the other hand our citizens have the feeling that there's no inspection, so we're going to try something under the radar. But good. It's the government's decision. There will be a topic when we discuss it. But I can't really, because the siren's call is too big, not to refer to these unfortunate ones to say so under the quotes of the communal directors. When we don't know who's going to do the rescue solution... the communal directors. When we had someone to hunt dogs and cats, communal monks. Who will deal with the laws we had in the debate before yours who will deal with the problem of waste, who left the waste, the communal monks. I don't really know what those communal monks don't do anymore. We have about 750 units of local self-government in Croatia. There are 150 of them in the City of Zagreb. They're middle-aged people. They're freaking out. I saw a few years ago contribution when it was a hit topic for towels. That's what all the colleagues who are either mayors or mayors from the coast know what I'm talking about, when the towels were left on the beach to book a place on the beach and then some of the mayors, of course, were the communal officers who threw towels, moved towels, charged fines, and everything else. I mean, we all have to keep in mind if we've decided that every local self-government unit hires 2 or 3 municipal directors all right. But if you have one in two municipalities, I don't understand at all, so when you give someone too much work, then you get the result that he doesn't even do what he's capable of doing. So it's a rescue solution if someone camps out of space that's intended for camp, the communal directors will go there. I mean, we just need to know what we have and what we want. If we want to satisfy the form all right but if we really want to make a move then we have to take a slightly different way of taking care of it. I'm in the first debate, and I'm glad that the Secretary of State referred to those unfortunate 80 people. It was very secretive to me where 80 people came from. But I'll tell you that from another story. So when in 2004, 2005, when it was decided in our legislation to define the PDO then colleagues who have long worked in the ministry know that the law was then defined that within the construction area, settlements could be hotels up to 80 beds. And then I asked where 80 came from, why it's not 90, 100, of course it was crazy very quickly, take an example of only Split and Marjan who has more, and it turns out to be something with which you can't handle at all. You've still made it and you've explained to me why it's like that, but I think it once occurred to someone 80 and now we're all holding on to those 80s as a drunk float. But it doesn't matter what it is. You've made a shift with the O.P.G.s, it's a good thing it's done. It would be good if you had made another move and you had time to think about it because, as I had heard from the debate, there will be amendments to the club of HNS and MOST, if you will not accept the MOST from the HNS, and this is the topic of providing half board and pensions in the catering activity. You have the criteria for creating a niche and you can define some criteria if you want to. But I always advocate that if we want to make a better offer, give a greater range of services, let more people be there because then if we have a different then there are actually some fewer people and that people will use it in some way or other way and it won't be good. Absolutely if you have any concerns about some situations put some conditions, put some criteria but give people a chance to work. This tourist season I hope she taught us something. I'm not a tourist employee. I follow tourism in the part that interests me and I'm interested in the way quantification indicators are done, how they work with the necessary infrastructure, I'm interested in what, say, Montenegro passed before us by a Budva that had a collapse during the tourist season because it had no adequate municipal infrastructure or water or sewerage for those peaks when they were terribly strong tourist booms, so I'm interested in this sort of thing. I'm interested in the process of what it means to be near the airport. I'm interested in the processes, which means the closeness of the air. I'm interested in the process of what some new types of tourism mean. So when I studied it was a long time ago then tourist zones and tourist facilities capacitated in a way that you saw the area of the beach, you calculated how much you can put a towel on that beach and from that area you went up to the number of beds in certain tourist destinations, so for example, so are the dimensioned Babin Cook which was there in '71, '72, was made, so is the dimensioned Istria, Solaris is a little different because Solaris is the only destination that was created in the devasted area so he was added value but I'm going to go too far now because only the most persistent ones are there. So what I really want to say in two sentences. I'd much rather you hadn't burdened the communal monks with this. Try to think about really making it possible to provide half boards and pensions, put some criteria and set some conditions. We also supported in our first reading as a club of GLAS and HSU, we had a debate that pointed to certain situations. When it comes from one ministry of the proposal where you see the effort to listen to what the MPs say between the first and second readings, there are some of us who are somehow trying to aphimically improve the expression of one law. So I'm sure your ministry will follow that law, too. They will see where these problems are, and these problems may be passed through some other or third amendments to the law. I'm not one of those who thinks everything has to be perfect, I think it's better to have a legal proposal that's not quite so perfect, but it's better to have it, it's better to have it and be operational and then everyone can admit and say it, there's something I've done wrong, I'm going back to changing and supplementing the law, and for that you'll always get the support of club GLAS and HSU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98283	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98284	Thank you, dear Vice President. Now that I have more time, I'll just briefly look back at the full bill. So, my colleague and Saucha said, I think this standardisation is a good thing and it's a good thing we recognized this time that those who don't want it don't have to. And that's one way I think and maybe a liberal notion that everyone chooses what they want, which is best, which is an estimate that the market will determine, and already let's have it all standardised to know what three stars are in any part of Croatia, so that's absolutely such ways actually thinking is good. Let us also say, this law increases one form of tourism, i.e. health tourism safely when we open it to business companies, health workers who perform private practice on their own, etc., I think that also in this way a truly potent form of tourism that should not be ignored is likely to get more... And it's for every absolute commendation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talked about solving the problem of housing seasonal workers, it was also through tax law that it was resolved by the regulation that their costs of accommodation are now going into cost and are no longer as income, so they do not have to be subject to special additional contributions. It's the same thing that's regulated here. It will also not be considered to be a catering activity for those employees themselves. And what was earlier in the talk that more than 80 people can be provided on the OPGs, especially when it comes to appropriate traditional celebrations and the organisation of such celebrations, etc. I think there's a lot of things, and let's just say I'd like to point out another conclusion to this, all this commendation, is the last item, or the introduction of a mitigation of the tourist inspectors' procedure towards the perpetrators' service providers. So, finally, that we're starting to think, so it's no longer the sense of the law that there's a reason to punish someone, but the point is to warn ourselves, and in this way we get full and the purpose of the law, and not what we have when a tourist inspector comes in and says, "You don't have a trash basket or water can't be warm, or I don't know what's not what's going on with the catering facilities -- and then here's the punishment, for the judge for the violations of a responsible person, etc. 'Cause somebody didn't have a trash can especially in the bathroom. I mean, you should have, but those relapsers should be punished. But let's go back to what I handed over the amendment. This is where we opened up, as I said, to edit new types of facilities in the household and on the family farm. As far as the Robinson accommodation facilities are concerned, we're bringing it all in a little bit because at the same time we recognize it, and at the same time we're making it impossible to actually fully apply that model. Because as the tenants are now said, I can't do it in this original bill anymore, and what I said in the replica can't provide half board or full board anymore. I agree with that, too. So, absolutely protect works of loyal competition and on the market that, because someone in one way or this way abuses it if it has 5 meters, 15 meters away, 100 meters away restaurants that have to meet a series of measures. And those who worked in the catering know what these are a series of measures from HASAP, from sanitary conditions, from special toilets and staff and for, so it's not just like that there are three benches so that, therefore, it's a series of measures to a special background behind the counter and the bar where they issue accounts that must be punished for it. So I'm not saying what it all means when you have a catering facility and what it has to be and what it's in the investment line and I support it. But also large but, the amendment that I have submitted and I hope you will consider and adopt in a changed form, if necessary, which says that if there is no registered facility within 15 kilometers of the road that is actively engaged in the provision of catering services, it is permitted for the tenant who provides accommodation services to guests other than breakfast and half board service or full board. What does that mean in translation? This means precisely for those other 2% of renters who are not in tourist centers where there are three houses in a village in Lica and me in Slavonia or anywhere else that there is nowhere to sell bread in 15 km, even though the bakery may be, these are excluded bakeries. It is known what catering facilities are, to make that part possible because it is within the meaning of the law and in the spirit of this law, especially if we are looking at this Robinson accommodation. Because he certainly won't be somewhere where urban areas are, then it's not, he doesn't have that name. So here we make it very clear, the ministry by regulation brings a list of places to which it applies, updates it quarterlyly through the HAC interactive map, but however you assess and in those places whoever has some accommodation, accommodation capacity can provide a full board or half board. Why? Because their investments to make them... should be tens and tens of thousands of kunas and through insurance when you have a restaurant you know then captain, you have to have a working time, you have a secure cook, you have to have a secure VKV chef. So he has to hire more men, so it's not a little investment, and like this he's like a person, he has to go additionally register, he has to go to a crafts school, he has to do a lot, a lot of things. It's not just that much, they have it. We're opening up that mountain of stuff, and he's poor enough to have maybe 50 thousand kunas a year in total income from everything he rents, and now he's going to put on paper that he has to invest 20, 30 grand in order to carry on and maybe he doesn't have the capacity to meet all these conditions. So where's the ceiling height? Where are the vents, the naps? So you know what the kitchen is? Inox. So that's investment. It's not just like that to say. And all right if besides someone did it, so that's why I'm saying it's... It's the meaning of this law you're doing because it was someone who had to invest it all in order to be a restaurant. [[You don't understand.]] I understand that, too. But where there's no such thing, now if there's a great demand in that place, it's a tourist place very potent and there's a lot of guests, and there's no restaurant, so someone's going to be offered this law and come make a restaurant and then... Full board or half board. [[You don't understand.]] And do what this law wants done. Why not? Well, look, the guy's got a guest there, he's got some pissed-off money, so I'm gonna go make a place near my house that's already derusted and I'm gonna go make a restaurant, and some people are gonna have to come to my place because I have a restaurant. Let's make him invest in pure competition and the market itself. That's the point, and then we'd totally have this point. I agree that, you know what our people are like whenever they can take a corner somewhere he'll take a curve wherever he can. It's just with us, that's how mentality is. And we must always have a step ahead of us. But then we go really like that, not poor people up in hill-mounted areas, continental tourism, rural tourism, we want to invest it. We have to go in favor of it, and I think this is the way to do it. I allow it to be corrected and that we can have the amended amendment, that the government can go with one of its own. I don't care. I'm gonna pull this off, I'm just not doing it for anything but just to maintain this continental tourism. But let's do that 10 renters, it's already worth it. We fight for every man especially in those rural areas that will leave us tomorrow. This is how his family works, people work, they live off it, they complement their budget in one way or another, and we have to keep it, not those kind of people pushing some investments because they give up, pack bags and leave. So when we talk about some demographic aspect and that law. So I think we really have that potential and I have what you gave in the explanation stands, I agree because just from what I've stated someone has to have a chef, assistant chef one shift, second shift, into the kitchen to invest, into the vent, all the minimum sanity conditions of the HASAP, so it costs. And if someone did all that, and someone out there has a tenant, so they're doing a full board... Then it's not fair and fair and that's why it has to be done the same and I agree. [[You don't understand.]] But where there's no alternative or that alternative is unsustainable, unsustainable and financially, and however you want, we don't have to go there with such a restriction. So I ask you that this amendment I think is very simple and that it is not complicated and that what is best for me is feasible, because why does it write a road line so that we have solved these islands that it is not a colleague of Sacha this morning we have an observation in a circle of 15-20 km and three even islands and there is a restaurant on one of them so if we look at an air line, it would be excluded. This way the road can be reached continuously by car so let people if it's about 10 km away and the bike some is the same part of the offer and okay we can, I'd like to see it cut down like this really get rid of a compromise proposal. So there can also be discussed whether it is 15, 5 km, 10 km, but I believe that it can be done to get a quality proposal and a large majority of the complaints that we have just gone on this article and on these suggestions that would actually in itself silence them and get one truly enforceable and quality law.../incomprehensible/... once again please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98285	I thank my colleagues Curai for this debate. We have a replica of these curves that Mr. Churay was talking about. Dear fellow Paneninic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98286	Thank you very much. My colleague Curaj let's raise awareness of the situation of OK, accept the entrepreneur, speak entrepreneur, so entrepreneurs, this model has an OPG at present he should be registered now in the future as an OPG with a prominent tourist activity after those discussions on the Family Agricultural Economy Act. What's left for him? It can't go to the craft, can it? It can't be the O.P.G. and the crafts, right? Then if he leaves the transition to the shape of the craft, he has bigger and higher fees and higher costs, if he opens a parallel company d.o.o. or J.D.O. So it gets an administrative burden around it, and it's going to have to eventually show where it's going to be right now, and this tax reform shows it's going to have to pay that difference as a director, or it's going to fictitiously put someone out of your family or some acquaintance to be so-called. Director. So it's not quite as simple as that all together, which I know the intensity but it's not exactly an O.P.G. some other form. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98287	...to a respected colleague, Panenic. My colleague Curai's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98288	Thank you. That my colleague Panenic, this is what you have detected, I think that not only in these technical conditions and assumptions that must actually be met in order to meet the minimum technical conditions themselves, there is also this legal form which also carries certain costs and I think that we are unnecessarily complicating there di complicated there. If we sell simple tourism Robinsonically as it is said here for the first time, then he himself implies making and food and all in a way that it may be in a tent on some improvised solution. People want and they like to pay for it, so why don't you let them. Some of them themselves are traditionally involved in the cooking of tomatoes, various ways of making food on the skewers, etc. All the things I do are not talk about grizzling, etc. Why not, and someone would have to have a light kitchen and everything to turn some traditional dish in the yard and show actually what this country has to offer and it's very full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98289	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate of respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98290	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State with his associates. I come from Sibenik-Knin County where the number of entrepreneurs in the accommodation and food preparation and service activities is growing over 10% each year. Their incomes are growing even faster and faster, and investment in long-term assets of entrepreneurs is over 50% of the total investment in our county. Of course these investments will bring new jobs, demand will be even higher even now we can say that seasonal workers like dry gold are wanted. Already, the figures say that there are over 20,000 workers missing in tourism that we need about 5,000 workers to be employed from abroad, requalified 8 thousand, and indeed it is commendable that you support and that you have heard the cry of entrepreneurs, thus allowing the problem of housing seasonal and field workers to do jobs in a way that will not be considered the same by providing catering services. Furthermore, when I talk about small tenants, it should be remembered that it is mostly about people of older age that I would say more modest knowledge, poorer education, and indeed many of them do not want to be offenders and it is commendable that this provision that says that the introduction of mitigation of the conduct of tourist inspectors will be without punishment to remove irregularities and deficiencies identified in inspection supervision within a certain period of time, of course. Furthermore, in this bill, we have a final solution to the problem of health tourism. Not only today when we talk about the Household Activity Act, but also tomorrow when we have an administrative session, the second reading of the Health Protection Act is also about this health tourism that we have been swearing for years and still unfortunately to foreigners who come to Croatia for example. They need to fix their teeth and get one bill from a health care institution, and another account from the one who organised their accommodation, food, transportation and the like. This, of course, gives the guest and the customer great mistrust, all agreed with one person, and they must pay two bills, and here it is commendable that this government, or two ministers, finally sat down at the table and agreed. For this reason, the administration would appeal and would suggest that the tourism minister also sits down on other issues with other ministers. Namely, some catering facilities are located in very attractive positions for guests, but very difficult for employers. At these locations, especially on our islands there is no power grid, there is no water all that is far more expensive and far more difficult than those who are enabled to do so. Like, for example, Some farmers, not individual, but all farmers, have the right to aggregate, to energy at affordable prices far cheaper so I suggest that together with the Minister of Finance sit down and the Minister of Tourism and allow these hosts to at least in their aggregates that serve them to cool down drinks, to prepare food, etc., that fuel can be obtained and used at a preferential price, etc. Blue diesel. Another provision that also applies to the Ministry of Finance. In fact, in a new proposal of the Income Tax Act, this income tax on renting rooms and apartments will be regulated in a different way, so that we will no longer have a fixed amount, but will bring cities and municipalities. And now, for example. The City Council of the City of Vodice will decide on the amount of that tax to be paid by the tenant in Vodice, and this tenant has a residence in Zagreb, which means that this income will be the income of the City of Zagreb. It does not make sense that the City Council of the City of Vodice will adopt a provision on the amount of taxes that will essentially be the income of a city, another city, the place where the tenant is resident. Well, here's an appeal for these two provisions to the same tourism minister to sit down and talk to the finance minister a little bit, to make it easier for our caterers and entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98291	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have one replica. Dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98292	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your debate you actually touched a number of topics that point to the fact that tourism is not an island. So, that tourism and catering activities at all are closely related to all other sectors that should actually help and enable this activity, which is extremely important to us, to be better. This tourist season, among other things, showed the fact that those who are good and those who are successful will work on. The market only regulates its needs, someone will be able to rent, someone not. But once again I want to emphasise what is good in this law, and what you have pointed out, and that is seasonal workers, in fact so far are they and in terms of spatial plans, you have counted the bed for them as if it were a bed for tourists. Equally related to the catering activity, he came to you as if he were, as if you were providing him with that activity. We need to think about reality. They're some people who will come and do work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98293	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. Answer to a respected colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98294	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Dark Taritash tourism, I always say he's life. And all of us along the coast live on this tourism and tourism and we can't look at it on our own and therefore once again commendation to the Ministry of Tourism who first agreed with the Minister of Health and finally responded to the great, I would say venture, which is called health tourism. We put too many stories into the strategy, and for the first time now, the problem will finally be solved, and I would also like to agree with the Ministry of Finance on these other problems, and that our tenant and caterer and tourist worker will not wander alone from one ministry to another, as he has done until now, rather than have the Ministry of Tourism be on the roof and answer all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98295	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. We have the final word... on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Tonchi Glava. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98296	Dear President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives, I thank you once again for the useful remarks and very constructive debate, so here in my final presentation I will only touch and answer some questions that you have asked, and perhaps they are not well-founded by the motionor. So, like what is the basic essence of some changes and what is the ultimate goal of the desired result. As for the proposal and the comments that we have had on the economy, I have looked at it briefly in the replica, but I would still like to repeat, that we are looking at the long-term picture, and we are very much looking at what effects will be related to the revenue itself, or expenditure. So, the Ministry of Tourism is currently developing all year round tourism in the region of the Republic of Croatia. In order to achieve this, among other things, we need to develop significantly special tourist products that are not just the sun and the sea. So, the sun and sea are our still most dominant tourist product, but we have defined in our development strategy other forms or other very important tourist products that are very important to us for the development of all year-round tourism. A large part of them are just taking place on the continent and so on. rural areas. So when we talk, among other things about private tenants or all service providers, it's very important that you know that in our vision and thinking we have the entire space of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we have some kind of... The rules because they matter to everyone. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our goal is to raise the quality and structure of the accommodation. Because as I have already said in the opening part, high-class catering facilities record the highest quality business results, record the highest quality physical in terms of arrival and overnightness and show the most concrete clear elasticity and adaptation as objects that are not focused on just one peak of the season, but focus on providing services practically in one large part of the year. And that is very important to us, precisely why we want to raise the quality of accommodation by this retegorization, we want to adapt them to the market in which we operate and we want to motivate them to raise their quality level to the market, as you yourself mentioned in your presentation, so that the market further regulates their position and their potentially successful business. By raising their quality, we raise the competitiveness of their services, thereby raising the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. So, it's never a price problem, the problem is only when the price doesn't follow the quality of our goal is to offer that it has very good and quality prices that guarantee the catering service tourist service with some extra income or added value. It is also mentioned at one point in exposure that with some potential lost income on non-repension or full pension in private tenants, we will explain and clarify this matter very clearly. So there won't be any lost revenue. This way you have one thing you may not know, so let me make it simple. So, all private tenants involved in providing, for example, half-board or full-board services if they are registered now, so if they are legal to provide these services, they must already meet a large part of those criteria and technical conditions that you mentioned in your presentation, yes, because it is defined by the Regulation, and they are registered for the provision of such services in the form of those so-called so-called. physical things and technical equipment they already have to meet now, because they simply couldn't get a categorization for it if they didn't have it. But what they don't have besides that hardware if you want we can call it that, they don't have the one so-called. Part two, and that's software. In fact, they do not have an integral part of the minimum technical conditions system, so they do not have to worry about some basic things that are related to, say, food supplies, such as HASA, which regulates both foods and employees, so they do not have to record the food from where it comes from, how it comes, how the warehouses, who are suppliers, how that food also do not have to keep some basic records of who handled this food, so employees of people who prepare these food in all the catering facilities in Croatia must have, among other things, a sanitary review at least once a year, have to have some basic knowledge of the hygiene minimum, they do not currently have to meet any of these conditions, and for us our care is certainly and must be balanced service or protection of our customers so that when our guests come to know what 3 stars means, which means as the 4 stars, it is an obligation as legislation to ensure that all of the same level that they are at which they are at the same level of the same level that they are at which they are located inCroatia. So in that part, it's very important that we know and treat them that way. So our approach is very important, and our approach is equal to all providers and we must not put ourselves in a position to have privileged categories, because if we keep the situation, the existing state that is this law has practically privileged categories and I will repeat the number of private tenants in the Republic of Croatia has crossed over 105 thousand. So we need to make sure we don't have that privileged category. And now let me say one more thing, which is also important in this debate and a few of you have referred to it several times you have used the words entrepreneurs or craftsmen and so on, and that is precisely the way in which, and the problem is that now my private tenants are not currently entrepreneurs. We would like them to be entrepreneurs, not for the reason that any way we put extra burden on them, not exactly the opposite, but to develop their business, because through one such legal form and through further expansion of their business, they have opportunities to develop themselves and develop the Croatian economy. So in that part, it is very important to say that we see them as a very important integral part of the development and competitiveness of Croatian tourism, but of course we cannot do that if they remain on some particular conditionalally low level today. We want them to expand their business, we want them to provide, we need to repeat that, we want them to provide food services, absolutely and to provide services and pensions and half boards, but we also want them to meet as a legal person some minimum technical conditions that are necessary to provide services at the quality of the stars that we as a ministry give them and give them. You also mentioned perhaps some lower standard as regards categorization, so you mentioned perhaps hotels or other accommodations with a lower standard, so it is very important that you know all catering accommodations whether to talk about a hotel or about marinas or other camps, for example, they all have so-called. Some kind of recategorization about every four years. It means that these facilities are being checked for whether they are in a period of 4 years, whether they still adhere to that standard given to them by some categorization, yes, and only in this category of private tenants have so far had we absolutely no entry into these facilities to check them even after 15 or 20 years from the very beginning, and that is exactly what our intensity of this retegorization is to simply have someone enter these facilities once again and to see what state they are in and to make suggestions if necessary, of course that standard is raised because if all the catering accommodation facilities have so-called. Retegorization of a certain number of years then it is logical that they too have that obligation. So in that part shouldn't make a difference in terms of who should have the chance to recategorize who doesn't. We simply need to make sure that they all follow their standard, not necessarily follow it, but maintain it. As for the fines, you referred to a large range of penalties and we caught some details as mentioned was this working time or house order or something like that. So it is very important to stress that in this law we have made a big, big step and the Ministry of Tourism is leading to this and how it counts. In fact, we view entrepreneurs, craftsmen, OPGs as a very important, immensely important part of the Croatian economy exactly those who fill the Croatian budget and those who need to make everything they do easier and better. And that's why we're doing this. That's why we're doing this. That's the second law we're entering these formulations into right now, and that's the wording of the inspector's behaviour on the principle of opportunity. So we have made it very clear now that the conditions or criteria for our inspectors going to the ground that for such failures at all they write no penalty 0 kuna but to warn them, it is now an obligation under this legal decision that for those minor offences that are not particularly important for business that do not have any direct negative impact on the guests, that they be given oral warning, one, two or three or five such things that are recorded in one surveillance and that they are given the appropriate time limit for removing these shortcomings. And the inspector returns back after that time period, establishes that it was all settled together and they had absolutely no punishment. We appear to them as partners, as someone who helps them function within the law. Now, in case even after that time period that they've been given to remove these minor failures. If they still haven't removed those shortcomings, then of course there must be penalties and those penalties are a little bit redefined in that way, so that, if they really don't want to correct what they've already been done, they'll be properly warned if you want to. As for the communal directors, I followed your debate in the previous law you had today, so you announced that you would also mention it in the debate in this law. I absolutely understand your concern because, here I am personally getting about it being very much engaged in talking to colleagues from the Department of Civil Engineering about it because they were also in a certain way skeptical about whether it was a good thing or not. But like this, I've come up with the first proposal to include communal directors for, among other things, helping prevent illegal camping has just come from the field from coastal cities and municipalities that have a lot of problems with this illegal camping, where simply until the moment they report it to the restoring or competent inspections, while given the very very few inspectors we have in the Republic of Croatia compared to the number of service providers. By the time the inspection comes out and appears, these illegal campers are already somewhere else or third, or they've been warned or something. They had very difficult conditions to address these problems. That's why we received comments to consider putting in, and we talked to colleagues at the Department of Construction. I thank them this way because they really understood the problem we were talking about and wanted to help us in that part. We have now given these communal directors the opportunity if, of course, these municipalities and cities want to solve these problems in their area so that they can deal with it. Of course, the initiative is always left to local self-government units and they are the ones who want to and can decide whether they need an additional communal director or not, whether illegal camping in their municipalities or cities is the problem they want to solve and in this way. Tourist inspection, yes, tomorrow it will be, the State Inspectorate will do very well to continue this work, but here I will give you an example of the most effective solution to the problem of illegal camping has just happened, the most efficient solutions have happened when they've been going out in the field until now, so.../The speaker doesn't understand...there was a case, tourist inspection, communal directors and the MUP. And then we had the best results and the best solution to the problem, and our goal is to get all these potential illegal campers in areas so that they don't stay on those public areas or on areas that are controlled and run by local self-government units, but to transfer them either to camp resorts or, of course, transfer them to camps. And sometimes the very appearance of a communal director or someone who does a legitimateization is enough to potentially solve this problem because sometimes you really have a situation where illegal camping is not made out of some real intention, but perhaps from some ignorance or ignorance of conditions. That's why we put them in there, and hopefully that'll help us prevent that problem. As far as interminister cooperation is concerned. I'm glad you brought that up. Indeed and several times I have been mentioned here tonight, just like the Ministry of Tourism or Tourism is an economic activity that binds a lot of economic sectors and activities and promotes and develops the entire economy through exactly different economic sectors and activities. And the tourism ministry as such is a resolute ministry, of course... So if you want us to have a certain way of getting involved in the more or less work of all ministries, and I, we always like to say that, the Ministry of Tourism is that which primarily cares about incomes, right, while some others might worry a little more about spending. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, we're doing very well, I think that during the current government's current mandate and these ministries we've made the most of the shifts... Co-operation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for your particular proposal regarding the Ministry of Finance and Fuel at a price, that, I must say, is a very good proposal that we haven't had so far, and we'll consider what we can do about it. I'm saying, I have a very good relationship with the Ministry of Finance and I'm really talking and we're dealing with a lot of problems together. And the best example is what you mentioned about the Income Tax Act where the decision on height is now left, by the bed of the flat amount that they must pay to the units of local self-government, and that is something that the Ministry of Finance has seen from the proposal made by the Ministry of Tourism for the Tourist Tax because we are going to leave soon, here we will be here in front of you in this home and a package of tourist laws in which, among other things, we are working and decentralisation where we leave the decision on the height of the residence tax to the county. So in that case, we talked about it, and here I am just recently having a conversation with a fellow secretary of state about this particular problem that you mentioned about these residence incomes. And we're going to keep working on it since this is, that these are legal proposals that are currently finished with the first reading, but they're still in the process, we're going to see what we can do about it, but believe that we're thinking about it because it's very important that from the point of view, let's say... private tenant and it is all expensive to them, whether we are talking about the Ministry of Tourism or Construction or Finance, it is important to them, how difficult it is for them in a certain way or for the ease of business they have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in any case, we take care of it, and we'll take care of it further. Let us further comment on this proposal of yours, or the announcement of an amendment regarding private tenants to the so-called so-called. remote areas. I am sorry that after the first reading in the Assembly, we may not have discussed it a little more specifically and more because this one you saw that we really had one large majority of the proposals. It's not as simple as how you said it, given that it's necessary to work out and criteria and a lot of things that we can't do right now, but we're going to think about it anyway, we're going to look at this proposal that you sent us, we're going to think about it, and we're going to consult a little bit and see if there's anything about it right now, to talk about it at this point. And also Agent Kleman mentioned that because of some other legal changes that will take place this law some large number of laws will have to be changed because of this inspectorate and supplement, so that they are always an opportunity to make one more step. The tourism ministry has shown a very clear will and a desire to redefine all things in the Ministry of Tourism that are in our jurisdiction in a legislative sense, so this is now the second law from the Ministry of Tourism House to be amended. By the end of the year, this package of tourist laws will be announced. So this is the 6 laws that are most directly related to the management of the tourism system and our efforts to make Croatian tourism competitive through these legislative activities, and that is what really did not happen and changes to the legislative, practically depends on how the law, but perhaps in the last 17 years. So we are very ready to talk and we are very ready to change everything we need to be as competitive as possible to develop the Republic of Croatia as a destination for all year long tourism. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98297	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for this exhaustive finale and thorough. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98298	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. With all due respect, I'm just afraid we're not getting uniformed. It means that our service becomes what it's actually offered everywhere. And that, that's fear. Because I was in Germany last weekend, I was at the economy, there was a local fair there, simplified, nowhere to get an account in any catering facility, no one gives or asks. Everything's different. They live simpler. So we're going to put it all together. I'm just afraid that one day we'll ask that, I don't know, the kids will think that the cow is really purple. You know what I'm saying, let's not bother to think that what we have is tradition, which is said by colleague Curaj, which we have some values that we need to defend or an event that the police are coming out to remove the rye with the lambs that happened in Berlin. So, a little bit, a little bit, we have to take that space that we had that makes us what people actually want to experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98299	I thank my colleague Panenic. Secretary of State General's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98300	Yeah, I agree with you, we need to keep what we're special about and what gives us extra competitiveness, but we also have to say very openly that, we came here today, we're here with a certain service and infrastructure that we had. We're ready to take a step further. So, a step further is to become and be in that pool, in that circle of the 20 most competitive tourist countries in the world. And to do that, we need to change things. We must preserve and preserve our specialities and uniqueness. But at the same time, the whole system, watch out, the whole system from top to bottom, we need to constantly raise both quality and service and all that to meet the demands of today's tourists, today's guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98301	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98302	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Your Honor. You had a very comprehensive final presentation, and in the first reading of the law or debate, I still had some arguments and thought that maybe this rent, then the pension and half board, that you were, in fact, right because somehow you wanted to introduce order. But now I'm sure of another thing. Try to put some limits on the elements. For some parts of the Republic of Croatia, renting with pension and half board may be a driver for the development of the region. For the simple reason that tourism should be, among other things, a driver of the development of certain parts as it was in the past. So if you put some sort of limiting elements that are not around any other object or something. Try to think about it that way. I understand your desire to uniform your tenants so that you can control them, that you don't have a mess, that the Republic of Croatia gets a nice picture, but try to think this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98303	I thank my colleagues, Dark Taritash. Here's the answer, Mr. Main.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98304	Thank you very much. To see, again, we must not forget the basis of the intensity and the fundamental goal, which is that, at the level of all food providers, we have basic minimum technical conditions and that we, as a state and as an institution, guarantee that this service and categorization that they still have meets some standard. And yet this is the fundamental objective of this amendment, which is why we went with this proposal that is now being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98305	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. The next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98306	... Mr. President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm glad you're going to consider this. I think it can really be done that way so that we can actually get one generally acceptable law. This guarantee you mentioned. I think we should... The market, where we clearly have to say this is a brand that respects everyone... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] all possible conditions, and this one does not, and that guest himself must assess whether it is good for him or not, and according to that, to allocate his money. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's defending our tenants today to become entrepreneurs. Why should they not today become entrepreneurs if they see that they have the opportunity to develop and advance? We don't have to make them do it, we don't have to go around telling them, you have to be an entrepreneur. We don't have to. If a man doesn't have to, but he's got that option, all he has to do is give him the right choice. As far as the conditions are concerned, they're really very very, very, very difficult to list right now, strict conditions for having a catering facility from staff, from special rooms for keeping food to bathrooms, there's a lot of investment and differences there. That's why we're doing this law so that everything out of the nivelling so that they wouldn't be.../incomprehensible... position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98307	Thank you, dear colleague Curai. Secretary of State General's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98308	To not forget again I say to all those who already provide these services now and who are as such registered already, and if they provide these services have staff, they have a large part of the equipment that is definitely, if you look at it, you can look freely at our Regulation on categorization and sorting where they already have these things already presently create where we have these service providers that provide these services and are not registered and then partly carry out unregistered activity because they are registered and legally in this part of the accommodation, providing accommodation services, but are unregistered activity in this part of providing food services and it is an automatic and surveillance problem because the inspection can, for example, be monitored by a tourist who is registered and for unregistered activity is this customs, however, all these will now be resolved with a new state inspector where this surveillance will be more comprehensive and thorough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98309	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank State Secretary from the Ministry of Tourism Mr. Tonchi Glavina, Assistant Minister Monika Udovicic and Head of the Sector of the Shadow Janjanin Krkljaš for the reasons and answers to questions. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted the planned agenda points for today. We continue tomorrow with work at 9.30 in the morning with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, please, colleagues, please, I haven't finished yet. So we continue at 9.30 in the morning with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, first reading of P.Z. 444. Have a nice night. The session was interrupted at 22.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98310	Good morning, honourable MPs. As planned for today, we will now move to a declaration of amendments. First, we will declare the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on host activity, second reading, P.Z. No. 378. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Stjepan Curaj and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The amendments will be shown by the respected Tonchi Glava, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism. Here you go, Secretary of State. So we start with Amendment No. 1. HNS representative, respected Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98311	It is therefore accepted in the amended form in a way that the item 4 is changed and reads: Behind the present paragraph 4, which becomes item 5, is added paragraph 6. which reads as follows: “Extremely from paragraph 3 of point 4 of this article if there are no facilities within 15km of the road line for the provision of catering services, preparation and service of the rentalr which provides accommodation services to guests other than breakfast can also provide half-board or full-board services.”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98312	Thank you. It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98313	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, dear secretary. So I absolutely accept this modified form because it's essentially the same. In fact, here it is that in the bill we recognized let's say such an injustice that many of our hosts who have to meet all those conditions in order to have a restaurant, i.e. a catering activity that did not refer to private tenants who in some way could have said this and done unfair competition. However, what is also the purpose of this amendment was then that there are places where we talk about our neighborhoods and when we talk about the notion of Robizonic tourism being introduced here for the first time where there are no such restaurants then the intensity was to still allow private tenants to have full board or half board, because here within 15km there really is no one who had to invest all the money in those measures of HASAP, of sanitary conditions, of minimum technical conditions, of staff qualified to provide such services, all that needed for the catering facility to work. So I think this is a solution as far as the modified form itself is concerned, in fact, the exact same thing. And I'd like to thank the promoter for accepting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98314	Thank you. Then in such a amended form, this amendment will be an integral part of the law. Now we're going to three amendments to the club, four apologies, four amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Let's go with the first amendment. Secretary of State pleading on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98315	Just a minute. The amendments to Article 5 are therefore not accepted. In view of the partial acceptance in a somewhat modified form of amendments to Stjepan Curaj's MPs, renters under certain conditions will also be provided with half-board and full-board services to their guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98316	It's obvious, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98317	Thank you very much. Renters in rural areas in continental Croatia in the hinterland of our coast should be allowed to sell food. You can't ban them from having a full board. You can't do it and this law, no matter what you call the previous amendment, you're actually guessing big hotels, big caterers. In this way, as we've given the amendment on behalf of the MOST Club, we'd essentially solve the problem of selling food in the back. Because tourists are asking us to. Well, we're agricultural land. How a man will rent his house, cottage or rent his pension, half board if he can't bake the building for his guests. So you forbid people to sell their food, for example. in the mountain of Dalmatia, in my Sinj, Vrgorec, Imotski, Drnish. Where did you get that right? So who do you favor in that case? So are you aware that we are a tourist country and that since we joined the EU half the wine we produce, half the food we sell less. So you're guessing with import lobbys to sell foreign food in restaurants. So what are you doing this law for? Who are these lobbyists that affect you? So help these parts so people can produce and sell food in rural areas. Well, those areas are empty. The Dalmatian Zagora in 2011 to 2016 has evicted 126 thousand people precisely because of these repressive laws that you impose on them because you favour import lobbys. You're the biggest in the vermin departments in the area. You're... 2/3 of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You take advantage of import lobbys that import food and you, like those who should worry about tourism and tourism development in the continental part of Croatia because this is the greatest demand you purposely destroy. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98318	We'll vote tomorrow. Now let's go to Amendment number two of the same club representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98319	It's unacceptable. The reintroduction of the obligation to comply with the conditions laid down in specific rules on food for tenants which will be able to provide exceptional pension or half-board services under the conditions laid down in this law are considered to be excessive since such a obligation is already prescribed by specific rules on food.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98320	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98321	I would once again influence fellow MPs that these lobbys that destroy domestic production, domestic farmer, family OPGs to simply allow people in the rural area, in the continental part of Croatia to sell their products. Well, you can't just favor big corporations in catering, in tourism. Once again, this law is forbidden, literally, that when they come to the Dalmatian Zagora of guests, to bake for him a building I don't know fish. What are you doing this for? What's the point of interest? To import food. Once again, fellow representatives are obviously lobbys, import lobbys at the Ministry of Tourism and large corporations who want to rule hotels and all the hospitality along the coast, simply do not want to develop tourism in the continental part of Croatia, mainly in the hinterland of Primorje and so on in the whole area. He would ask you once again on behalf of 2/3 of Croatia, do not let these people who are engaged in the OPGs who rent their promenades to destroy them. You have fellow representatives, this ministry of tourism, agriculture, not to work, they came in a way through the lobby, otherwise they wouldn't be behind this speaker, because they didn't come in the spirit of the world, to do these laws that are harmful to our producers, small OPGs in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, please support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98322	Let's go to the 3rd Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98323	It's unacceptable. The caterer himself determines the working time within the law he will be allowed to do business and can change it according to his needs, but when he points out it, at the entrance to the facility must be out of it and followed. The obligation to report working hours is not prescribed by any law on catering activity, nor by any other regulation, but to the consumer, the guest must be made available to use services in a working-time catering facility, which is pointed out at the entrance to the entrance of the facilities, i.e., which was pointed out by the caterer for the reason that this law introduces mitigation of tourist inspectors' procedures to the perpetrator of the offence, and by applying the principle of opportunity, i.e. prescribing the possibility of removing irregularities and deficiencies identified in inspection controls without punishment. I find it justified in cases of repeated violations to prescribe that higher sentence for all violations. Therefore, if this law enables certain minor offences to be non-sanctioned, because it has also created unnecessary barriers for service providers, we are warning without filing any charges, i.e., issuing a criminal order or collecting penalties at the scene of the offence, it should be sufficient to correct irregularities and shortcomings, and this should be the primary objective of carrying out inspection supervision rather than punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98324	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98325	We see that to expand in essence this law is to expand inspection supervision and the number of sanctions, due to minor mistakes, huge penalties are to be prescribed by this law, people who deal with hospitality, of course, to fill the budget and destroy competition, for those who should take over a set of tourist facilities in the area of the Republic of Croatia mainly along the Adriatic. So you, for one smaller note, which isn't set up on a catering facility, you're going to punish people, you're going to close up the number of sanctions, why? Which is why this inspection attitude wouldn't be the one to warn, the one that essentially, because of minor violations. You've only expanded the number of sanctions, for catering facilities, of course less, because it's going to affect the ministries very easily, have good connections and because of them are doing this law, that small hosts are destroying. The inspection shouldn't just serve to punish in a bar, in some catering facility, to punish her for being forgotten to put a note in and you've expanded the number of sanctions. Inspecting sea surveillance, it is not funny, inspection controls must be the ones to warn and to coordinate that people, that owners behave in accordance with the law rather than simply sanctions and charge budgets, and only because they will please large hosts, who will take over everything because it is the only interest, as they have made of agriculture, will make them a hospitality. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98326	We'll vote tomorrow. And we're going to the last amendment to the Independent List Bridges Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98327	It's unacceptable. Since the amendment of the Club of Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists has not been accepted, which would again be subject to the law for all tenants of the prescribed possibility of providing half board services and a full pension for their guests using the accommodation service, this amendment cannot be accepted either. in order to delete the provision which requires the obligation to comply with the provisions of the proposed law within a year from the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98328	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98329	I didn't expect anything but that you would simply come to these parts now, here, between the EU elections, for the EU parliament and that you would come, lick those parts and boast about what you did for them, and in fact you are sticking the last nail in the case of the rural region of the Republic of Croatia with this law. The OPGs that are close and have pensions and half boards will not be able to sell those products nearby. You force people, tourists, not to come to those areas, instead of the other way around. You are the Ministry of Tourism, you should promote gastro tourism, sports tourism, rural areas, everything that you will promote, and in fact, you here forbid people to literally bake one building for our guests, for guests who receive in their pension, half board. What are you doing this for? What is the reason that domestic products from that village cannot be on the table in that half board? And once again, I didn't expect anything from you, and that's why it takes a whole law for those areas, such as my Dalmatian Zagora, such as Gorski Kotar and other areas, to simply put an end to you. To fit you in on this sting and destroying Croatian area 2/3 of Croatia. To stop the emigration of these harmful laws that you're sending into the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-17-0.u98330	Thanks to this, we have come to an end with discussions on amendments to the Health Protection Act and amendments that the applicant did not accept, we will vote tomorrow. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity, second reading of P.Z. No. 378th proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Stjepan Curaj and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The amendments were obvious at yesterday's session, and we will move to a vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go so the first amendment, the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. I'm sorry, the bridge club of independent lists. .../Speakers don't understand. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. [[Adversity President: Propose]] We're going to the second amendment of the same Club of Representatives, the government won't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to amendment three of the same club MPs, the government won't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number four, the same Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity, please vote. I find that with 80 votes, 30 abstentions and 17 against the law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act was passed.
