ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66031	We're going to take a break. Here you go, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66032	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I want to talk about the non-compliance with the executive law and the latest ruling in Romania regarding the CHF currency clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66033	I thank Mr. Alexic. Dear Mr. Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66034	I'm looking for a break ten minutes for the education system would be a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66035	I thank Mr. Glasnović. Is there anyone else? Here you go. Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, I am looking for a break because of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66037	I thank Mr. Glavasevic. Here you go, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66038	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the Most Club, I'm looking for a break regarding the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66039	I thank Mr. Sagar. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I demand a ten-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66041	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm setting up a recess. We'll be back to work at 9.45 p.m. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Before we take a break, we have a notice. Given the phonogram of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament of 7 February 2018, it is visible that it is in accordance with the provisions of Article 236(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoja, announced that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system would be asked to give an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been prescribed that the request must be submitted to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in writing and reasoned within 24 hours of the execution of the action subject to the request. In view of the fact that the representative of Nikola Grmoya did not submit the request in question within such a fixed period as was established by the examination of the phonogram of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament of 7 February 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Article 236(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, he lost the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by the end of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. We're going to take a break. In the name of the living wall and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66043	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some of the believers, and these little believers are in violation of the executive law. What's this about? The most recent amendments to the Implementing Law have prescribed restrictions on enforcement below average salaries and these restrictions apply retroactively. By amendments to the Implementing Act, it is stipulated that Article 173(2) shall apply to all executive procedures, regardless of when the exercise takes place, no matter when they are launched and no matter when they are completed. However, individual creditors, on the basis of statements by the debtors, that they will allow the full income to be made, make full receipts. And that's to people who have below average income. Therefore, under the average income under the Implementing Act, the whole must not be carried out, regardless of what such a declaration exists, because Article 173(2) is so prescribed, as amendments and additions to the Implementing Law are thus prescribed where it is declared that Article 173(2) is applied retroactively. However, because some of the believers do not apply the Executive Act, and the smaller believers, I will not mention them here that I am not destroying their ratings, these are some smaller banks, the Franak Association sent an open letter yesterday to the Minister of Justice and the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Minister of Justice is required by a spot-on response and a statement that it is clear from the executive authority that all such credentials who violate the law are no longer allowed to violate the law in the future. And the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, is required to put the proposal to the agenda for supplementing the Implementing Law, which is on the agenda but is not yet in any session of the agenda, and neither has the Committee on Legislatives passed. Therefore, I also appeal to the chair of the Legislative Committee to put on the agenda the final proposal to supplement the Implementing Law because the Implementing Law is currently unconstitutional. It is unconstitutional because paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 173 are contrary, and they are contrary because paragraph 2 is valid for below the average salary not to be completed whole until paragraph 1 applies to all other salaries and receipts which may be made whole if the debtor has signed a declaration by June 2008 that it may do so. Therefore, I appeal from this place to the Minister of Justice to issue a statement, to the chair of the Committee on Legislatives, to put the final draft of the Executive Law and to the President of the Croatian Parliament on the urgent agenda, to discuss this proposal and finally to adopt and end the non-constitution of Article 173(1) and (2). The law of law. The second topic I want to talk about is Romania's latest court ruling in Cluj. So the Romanian court in Cluj has ruled with power that the CHF currency clause in Romania's loan is unfair and harmful. It is unfair and harmful because the bank is a professional financier who has not notified the laika debtor of all the risks that can be caused by the negotiation of the CHF currency clause. In addition, it said that there is no rational explanation that could explain that wars are normal for them to grow twice as much as they do in the early wars. In addition, it is respected in any case that the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C 186/16, in which it was declared that national courts, in determining the unfairness of the currency clause, must be careful whether the bank has warned about all the risks and consequences of the settlement of the currency clause, whether the bank has warned that such currency that can be negotiated can increase enormously, whether it has warned of all relevant facts that exist at the time of the negotiation of such credits. So Romania is the seventh EU country to declare the CHF currency clause unfair and worthless. I expect Croatia to be the eighth country, the High Court of Commerce to make its decision as soon as possible, and finally 120 000 debtors with the CHF currency clause get a wide open door for their private court processes and for full compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66044	I thank my esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic. On behalf of the Independents for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66045	Dear colleagues, I've been talking here for a long time about the education system and how it comes out of that system, what we get, what students. I'd just say that our students don't just know anything but live in total historical darkness, information darkness. There comes two classes a day here, those young heads know nothing. When you ask them some basic things that everyone might know at this global level, what general knowledge is, when you ask about Hanktington, for example. When you ask this for the French school of sociology, you get a look, they look at you, they look at you, they look at you, they watch the monkey watch, they know nothing. When we talk about social sciences, political sciences, nothing, total failure, why we're surprised at that. Uh, there's a Wolf here, it's us, it's us, it's us, it's us, it's us, it's us, it's us, it's us, we need... In six months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well it's already done here, we're past... All that '45 analysis. You don't have any analysis in any field, from history to economy to today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if they do an analysis, it's prevented in... The media, who run the editorial policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll see that we've given up exactly the same country as before, except for two factors. We have a sort of... plural democracy, I said that before, and you don't have hyperinflation, it's the same character with the same metal set. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the taboo theme of that heritage I was talking about last week. Look at the mine policy around us in... The media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on out there? You have the Evening List, a nonstop coming Mr. Josip Juratovic who escaped here in the 1970s, '80s. Now he's sitting in Bundestag and he's honking on us about the former state. If it was so wonderful why he ran off to Germany, why are we honking all the time about going young? It's gone since the 1960s, '72, a million and a half people from this country, most of the Croats, which is from the first eviction. They are the same Argentina, each third Croat had an academic title and who came here. They came in with two grades of elementary school. They put state-owned companies in charge and you got a total collapse of one system, civilized. False diplomas, false names, economic failures, and the collapse of all moral and ethical values. That's what I'm talking about. Here, other countries, post-Communist countries, have formed committees for reconciliation and truth. You have such commissions from South Africa to Poland. What's up, Croatia? You haven't even met once, and who's sitting on that committee? All mostly frames from... The regime that will rehabilitate the largest criminal organisation west of the Urals over the Soviet Union, it is the communist party of Yugoslavia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have centres to preserve national memory in Estonia, the Baltic republics of Poland, Germany, Hungary, was tried by former communist personnel, who came here on the indictee's bench, for hundreds of thousands killed, for kidnapping, why no one has a list of seized property after '45. Ten thousand companies, small-store farms, and that's why we're where we are. There's no catharsis. Here,... The magazine, this month, says... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The past,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rehabilitate in Russia, Mao Ce-tung in China, and that's the biggest criminal mega killer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no catharsis without historical truth, as far as it has to go, here's just a play here. We're losing... plural democracy and we keep our mouths shut. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The air-conditioning voice has a rope here. We should put Lenin's mask here and Marx and they'll come here, everything will be fine. Without facing the past, we won't go far. And we got the Croatian state, without Croatian cultural space. That's proof, young people don't know anything, that's where we always honk about something future. Let's say we develop the greatest democracy in the world, the most modern technology. If we lose cultural space, what kind of state are we going to have? We'll have a country like this, a hollow state, where there's no historical truth or justice, nothing but lies and deception. And why are we surprised? We're staying, and these young people, who come here, we're left with a violent society, who doesn't know anything about themselves or anyone else. And why are we surprised at that? What kind of character do we have in school? At the university of philosophical, political science. What is the purpose of economic colleges to still study... Lenin and I are surprised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a healthy civilized state, these teachers, there would begin the illustration, with them and in the judiciary, unfortunately having... And it's our destiny. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66046	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia was humiliated yesterday. Yesterday and today in our country is Alexander Vukic, a man who is proven not to be our friend. Who proved no good intentions towards Croatia, a man whose only honest intention is to be seen in his Hague speech in occupied Clay in '95, and then in the Serbian Parliament in 2000 when he spoke of changing internationally recognised borders of Croatia according to the great Serbian fantasies. He never pulled those words back. This is the man who today is friends with the rightful convicted werewolf executioner Veselin Sljivancanin and is appointed as his defender. Such a man was invited by our president to Croatia, without the consent and knowledge of the Croatian Prime Minister and treated as a distinguished guest. That's where the humiliation of a colleague and a colleague lies. Croatia's president, put the interests and pressure of the international community ahead of the country's own interests. And she did it the most embarrassing way. About media freedoms on Vucic's Serbia or rather lack thereof, everything is well known. It is also known that our president does not like public interest and journalistic issues. But the fact that yesterday, just yesterday, the Croatian president, banned journalists from asking Alexander Vukic about his large-serb Hague speeches, is a humiliation and spit-in-the-face of every victim of the Homeland War, every one. In Croatia, Vukic brought home books from the Court to the Union, and the president presented this as a huge and important gift, progress in our relations. What about the protocol at the werewolf hospital? What about the data on the sites of mass graves, which are well known to be documented in the possession of Serbian intelligence services? That would be a significant gesture. The only thing that's clear is that the president, who swears to the community, has caused our country's disunity and humiliation, and all of this is under cover of peace. There is a way to reconciliation between colleagues and colleagues, but people like Vukic and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic cannot lead us on that path. Only good people who testify to their lives about dedication, co-existence, and understanding can guide us, if we enable them to do so and help them. The reconciliation doesn't start with the exchange of paper, it starts by helping people on both sides of the border to get to know each other. There is no Serbian literature in Croatian schools, there is very little music from Serbia on our radio stations. And how many Serbian schoolboys had a chance to read for example "Hotel Zagorje" Ivana Simic Bodrožic, how many had the opportunity to fall in love with astronomy while listening to Korad Korlovic talking about the universe? Why don't we help change that? In order to strengthen friendship, we must view things and similarities as what brings us together, not as a source of hostility while we fight for the right to say that something is just ours and not theirs. Its president may not be a friend of Croatia, but Serbia certainly is a friendly country today, and friendships must be strong enough to survive the efforts of people like Vukic and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic who would tear it down, instrumentalise for their political goals. Reconciliation can begin those who are hungry for peace and friendship, not those who are hungry for power. For Alexander Vukic, it's been clear for a long time which group he belongs to, and if it wasn't clear to anyone by now which group he belongs to, then he should have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66048	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. On behalf of the bridge of independent lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66049	Honorable MPs and MPs. I asked a forbidden question yesterday, a legitimate question in the square to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Vukic. The issue of all issues, the issue of peace, the issue of Serbia's democratisation, the issue of Croatia's relations with Serbia that should be much better, the issue is simple and short, and everything comes from it. Wolfie, when are you going to Croatian Clay? Let's remember '95. the year when the people of Serbian nationality were trying to go to war at the borders of Greater Serbia, Karlovac, Karlobag, Virovitica, let's remember these speeches with Chetnik Seselj. At least what Vukic should have done when he came to President Kolinda's house, he should have gone to Glin to apologize to the people of the Serbian Nationality who forced him to do evil, crimes, them and Croatian citizens of their neighbour, Hrvatta. Alexander Vukic, Seselj and those who invited people to go slaughter, arson and create great Serbia are responsible for the slaughter. The minimum dose of courtesy of Vukic was to apologize to Croatian citizens. Of these questions I asked him yesterday on the street here on the square, culturally, clearly, a short-limited issue in the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is embarrassing for the democratic system, raised issues. In Serbia, I'm declared Ustasha media. Gentlemen of the Serbian media, I live with the people of the Serbian Nationality, with many and fought, nine thousand people of the Serbian Nationality defended Croatia as a Croatian defender while Vukic urged grenades from their countrymen to be thrown at them. Yesterday, in the early hours, I was on my way to the square in the Parliament of a blocked city. The legal protest of Croatian widows from the Homeland War and their families has been banned for the first time since Mark's square was approved for protest. For what? Why is it forbidden for those who gave the most, their family members, their fathers, their husbands? Why are they forbidden to protest legitimately? At least what the President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic should have asked is a question, Mr. Vukicu, when you will be in Croatian Clay. I ask him this question again from this pay phone in Croatia, let the direction of Glin go, and let him apologize first to his countrymen to whom he has inflicted great evil. He's guilty of the crimes that took place in the Republic of Croatia, he's guilty. So the minimum courtesy would be of the man who was hoarding that poor girl to create a big Serbia to apologize, to minimum what it should be, not to throw into the wires of our widows, sons, parents who wanted to protest yesterday, and only what I'm saying now and order their differences with Colinda Grabar Kitarovic who declared them marginalists. The marginals declare those who gave their lives and theirs. No matter what rhetoric it will be, the protest is a democratic expression in accordance with the law. It is necessary to be ashamed, of the whole system, of the MUP, of all those who have made a political decision to ban protests for the first time on people, of widows who have lost their loved ones. And the protest was reported in accordance with the law. Alexander Vukic, I'd like to send you a message: "The Emperor is naked". Reply to people of Serbian nationality in the Republic of Croatia, respond to Croatian defenders, citizens of the Republic of Croatia when are you going to Croatian Clay?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66050	I thank Mr. Bull. On behalf of HDZ, dear colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66051	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is true that Mr. Vukic, the president of Serbia, is staying in Croatia. Yesterday he was at the Office of Presidents in the Croatian Government in the Office of Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament. However, whoever chose Mr. Vukic, whether or not Mr. Bulj may have chosen him as president, did not choose him, neither Mr. Maras nor my smallness, nor Mr. Bacic, was elected by the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Vukic was elected president of Serbia and we in Croatia took note. So he was elected by Serbian citizens and we with the legally elected president of Serbia need to talk if we want some things that concern the legacy of war against Croatia to be resolved. We remember very well in '91. The years, the rocketling of the Ban Courts, we had the other day, three months ago and the anniversary of October 8, '91. year after that, President Tudjman, who was the target of the attack, was called by President Gorbachev in Moscow. The talks also included Mr Tomac as deputy prime minister of national unity and foreign minister of Yugoslavia. Mr. President Tudjman went to the talks after Milosevic tried to kill him along with Stjepan Mesic and Ante Markovic. President Tudjman negotiated with Milosevic in Geneva even though he knew that Milosevic had previously been sent to Croatia's death squadrons. It's a reality. What do I mean by that? We don't choose foreign representatives, officials, they're elected by their citizens, their citizens. And we're talking to them. There are others who receive the wolf as president of Serbia, not just us. He was in Austria with Mr. Kurz,... Also received Vice-President Strache in Belgrade, others are receiving him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we will talk to him too, we are talking to him because he is a representative of Serbia, president of Serbia and if we want to address open issues concerning the legacy of war, aggression in Croatia, we can only deal with him, with whom will we solve it? With the opposition in Serbia? We can't. Only with those who have power, he has power and we expect him to use his power to solve the question of the legacy of war. The missing, Croatian minorities in Serbia, the victims of war, the question of campers, we have to solve all of this, and we will deal with it. And here we have two channels, Channel A are the relations of Zagreb-Belgrade, Channel B are the EU-Serbian relationship where we have these criteria that are embedded in this famous chapter concerning justice and fundamental rights. And until this is settled, we will act as an accountant, not only us but also our partners in the EU, until these issues are resolved, our neighbours will not be able to join this European family. It's in their interest to resolve it and Mr. Bulj felt the climate change yesterday when he threw Mr. Vukic here in front of the Parliament why he didn't go to Glin, he was still showing himself, why? It still bothers him. He's not happy, he's still talking to you, so he's aware that he was mistaken, that he was in a mythomanic delusion, but it's not our job to get some excuse out of someone, it's up to him, he has to decide himself whether he's going to publicly manifest himself when it comes to these delusions, it's his personal matter. What is much, much more important for us in Croatia is that we begin to address the issues of the legacy of war because when it starts to be resolved, when Croatian citizens see that our people are treating Croats in Vojvodina normally, as well as Hungarians in Serbia, when we have shifts in the area of finding the fate of the missing, when our campers receive compensation for their "stay in Serbia", then we will finally be able to work together with Serbia as the French and Germans do today, turn to the future, have some normal relations that we want, of course. And before that, we will resolve the question of the legacy of war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66052	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac. We now move to debates on the agenda, united by all five points of the agenda. Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66081	I am looking for a break on behalf of the club for ten minutes to talk about an affair of consultants and Andrej Plenkovic who decides eight days about what is clear in Croatia in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66082	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66083	We're also looking for a ten-minute break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66084	Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you very much. I'm setting up a recess. We'll be back to work at 10.50 hours. It's 10:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66086	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. For the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of justice, we here are obliged to warn about some things, and one of these things is what happens in Agrokor and what Plenković Andrej does, or does not work, around Agrokor. Croatian citizens must know who brought Ante Ramljak to Agrokor and here is a picture of this person, namely Ante Ramljak and Andrej Plenković, 10.4.2017. So there's no Martina Dalic story, of course there is, but there's not one that's decisive. There are also stories about Borislav Skegra probably, but there is not one who is decisive but is decided by Andrej Plenkovic, to bring Ante Ramljak to Agrokor and appoint him as an extraordinary commissioner. Last week, another picture of two of the same winemakers, 5.2.2018 meeting Plenković Ramljak in Vlada, Ramljak brings documentation related to consultants Andrej Plenković. So, it is evident that colleagues cooperate, exchange information, that Plenkovic placed it there and that he has now received information from him about consultants in Agrokor, meaning 5.2.2018. What's going on? Today is 13.2., 8 days have passed since Andrej Plenkovic received the documentation, 8 days have passed since the day he can no longer say he doesn't know, but he didn't do anything. You know what happened in those eight days? Texo Management and two other consulting firms have made up 600 thousand kuna in these weeks. This is the product of Andrej Plenkovic's work. So since after he got the information last Monday, by this Monday there were still 2 invoices per 250, about 250,000 kuna and another invoice under 100,000 kuna. It means 600,000 kunas to us now or, Agrokor, but since the state passed the law and stood behind Agrokor and Commissioner Ramljak pays for it, Agrokor costs the inaction of Andrej Plenkovic. And now we're wondering why? We have an unsatisfactory response from the government of the Republic of Croatia that the diameter had an intense week. What does an intense week mean? He didn't have time to check the paperwork? It's like he's going to do his own analysis, like he didn't say it himself last week when he was in Strasbourg, that he's given professional services to check out what's clear to the citizens, everyone in the Republic. There's no such thing as this, it's not normal, that your friends, acquaintances, etc. You are engaged in Agrokor, and after 10 days, they are taken by the consultant you have chosen, that they are such fees, such as those companies in Croatia have never received, it is not normal and everyone knows it, you from HDZ and you from HNS and colleagues from Most and from the rest of the opposition. We all know that, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but don't know Andrej Plenkovic. And now I ask once again, how many men who have brought there Ante Ramljak, who have allowed these consultants to be employed in Agrokor and make 250,000 kunas a week, how much that man will still think, analyze and do nothing. Or what we suspect in the SDP is that Andrej Plenkovic is behind those consultants. If Andrej Plenkovic were behind those consultants, because it wouldn't be funny for Bačić and Boric, that three companies earn nearly 600,000 kuna in a week, as well as 500 people who go to Konzum every day, do their job fair 8 hours and earn their bloody bread. Then Bacic and Boric wouldn't make fun of it and think they can do what they want from the position. It shouldn't be in the Republic of Croatia like that, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why once again, Martina Dalic, okay, we all know everything, Shkegro, we all know everything, but this man brought in Anta Ramljak and made it possible for a law that at this point, these consultants make almost 250,000 kuna a week, and I say, those 3 companies almost 600000 kuna. How long till Plenkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66087	I'd like to thank my colleague Maras for the explanation of the break. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66088	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of Maras, listening to you and following your work in this House, but also outside of the Assembly on social networks, recently I saw that you cried out to Croatian citizens that you wanted to be a better representative and that it is important that they tell you that you would be a better representative in the Croatian Parliament. So here I am, and as a citizen, but also as a politician, a representative, I'm going to say that this may not be the best way to be a better citizen, i.e. A better representative than he is, because the fact is that this persistent calling of some people on one subject, from week to week, day to day, doesn't help you, not to the citizens, not to Agrokor. It's the only thing that can be measured from all your discussions. And this force of yours in an excuse, not impressed, here, simply neither the color of the voice nor anything else, which you've done today, here showing these few images and speaking the lie. It is simply that your poisoning of the debate on Agrokor does not contribute to the citizens or Agrokor or employees or to those who today work hard to keep this system alive after what we witnessed at the 4th month of last year when that big system got into big trouble. You in your Bundes league, i.e. in the SDP you have a lot more problems I think than Agrokor and you're simply obviously trying to transfer what's going on with you to another area. It's Agrokor or this assembly, but it won't work because we'll answer your lies every time. And you brought them up in your debate, primarily accusing the prime minister of the Croatian government of showing some images when we all know that most Croatian MPs voted in favour of the law in this House, that this law allowed normal functioning in a situation that was difficult for both employees and young people to supply both for the OPGs and for the large ones and that, unfortunately, yours apparently in the SDP, was successful. I am now rightfully wondering if you promised someone in some time that you wanted to break up this Agrokor or everything that's going on and every day talk about it to achieve some opposite goal because we can't forget that there are stakeholders who might not be the goal of having that story with Agrokora end in the best possible way. Maybe there's some truth there, too. As far as the government commissioner's story is concerned, he is not the government's commissioner, he was appointed by the Trade Court and named by law by an extraordinary commissioner. And I don't know why you want to suggest to citizens that the whole story is run by the government, and it's not true. And it's not true that thesis. The extraordinary commissioner is the choice and works in favor of the religious and religious council. And they make a decision together, we hear the thoughts of a religious council about his work, what little suppliers think, what those who depend on his work think. In order, everyone praises him. It means that by replacing the thesis, you're trying to suggest to the citizens that the whole story about this Agrokor is being led from the government, that taxpayers' money is being resolved by the situation in this Agrokor and that taxpayers' money is being paid by consultants of this or that. That's not true. And for a hundred times we've repeated here, not one single kuna of taxpayers has entered the whole story in the past 10 months. What are we politicians going to do by arbitration between relations that rule within certain business groups that deal with business? Maybe it's a bit of a political point. But we won't solve the situation, especially this way. And it is not correct of you to suggest to citizens opinions that do not stand. And you're accusing people who clearly said, as the prime minister said, when I analyze everything I got, and if I had to get it, I'm not going to do it with a text or a message or a phone call, then I'm going to show myself what's going on there. That your impatience may continue a little longer so you will be aware that you have been in error as you have every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66089	I thank my colleague, Boric. In the opening part, you did not present the club's point of view but rather expressed your subjective opinion about your colleague Maras and his presentation, and I do not think any of us are invited here to appreciate the work of parliamentary representatives, but you will appreciate it when the time comes and I ask you to stay away from such a way of debate in the future because again, in the context of the break, you must present the position of the club. Likewise, do not belittle any of the parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here you are, Mr. Maras, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66090	Thank you. 238., you have already done one piece and you have pointed it out and that is why I give you once again here a public commendation that you are the best host of the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly, you are way off from everyone else but Mr. Boric will probably not listen as he has not listened to any of them so far. With what he was insulting with the "trouble" epithets, etc., he didn't even stick to it, so he didn't announce that he was going to talk about me and then he said some pictures. So these are pictures here's one more time I'm going to show you, that's the picture where Plenkovic promoted Antu Ramljak. So people need to know that Andrej Plenkovic promoted Anta Ramljak, and on that side why is that unacceptable to you? So I think you should commend Plenkovic for putting Ramljak there and allowing people to make $250,000 a week. And you're talking and suggesting it's right, and I'm going to say it's not and what's the problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66091	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Introducely you set off nicely, then you transferred to the replica, so please don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In one piece, you have already warned Mr. Boric in a violation of Article 238, paragraph 5, where he has demeaned or insulted other MPs, in particular in his opening work he has dealt with a colleague, Maras, unaware that he can kill a messenger but cannot be the truth. In the second part, however, he insulted all SDP representatives when he said we were on some sort of mission to break up Agrokor and avenge the plan to rescue Agrokor. I have to make it right, it's a notorious lie and a lie. Our only task is to save Croatian citizens from potential potential damages and to pay the debts that some of your others have made, I will not say comrades but comrades, it is our only task. So what you said is a ludicrous lie. I personally am not on any mission and I work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and no other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u66093	I thank my colleague, Voter. Same answer as Mr. Maras. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the debate. Honorable MPs and MPs, good afternoon to all. We're moving to a debate on the agenda planned for today. Since the following legislative proposals are about the same amendment, I suggest that if you agree to conduct a joint discussion of five points of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on patents, first reading, P.Z. No. 271; - Proposal for a Law amending the Mark Act, first reading, P.Z. number 272; - Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Industrial Design, first reading, P.Z. No 273; - Proposal for a Law amending the Code on Geographical Origin Tags and designations of origin of products and services, first reading, P.Z. nr. 274 i - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, first reading, P.Z. Number 275. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Is there anyone who doesn't agree that, just a little bit about the break, is there anyone who doesn't agree that we have a united discussion on these points? There isn't. Thank you very much. We're going to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70555	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. So it's about five laws that I'm going to explain here, all five of a sudden because there's no point in every single one because the changes are the same in all the laws. Therefore, the existing laws governing the recognition of the right of industrial ownership, i.e. the Law on patents, the Law on Industrial Design, the Code on Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services, and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, are laid down among other things by the Institute of Appeal for Decisions of the State Institute for Intellectual Property in the first degree procedures of recognition of industrial ownership. The patent law is also prescribed by the Joint Institute of Appeals in the field of industrial property rights as well as by the second-degree body in all industrial property recognition procedures under the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Institute. The applicable amendments to those laws are in line with the General Administration Act and the State Administration System Act in such a way that decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute as the central authority of the State Administration are no longer subject to administrative dispute. In this respect, it is proposed to abolish the institution of the appeal and hence, after the end of this transitional period, to suspend the work of the Board of Appeal in the field of industrial property rights as the current independent second-degree body, which decides to appeal to decisions of the State Institute for Intellectual Property. The proposed amendments are prescribed as a legal remedy for these decisions by the Administrative Court in Zagreb and its resolution by an urgent procedure. Prescribing the jurisdiction of only one administrative court, i.e. This Administrative Court in Zagreb, of the 4 general administrative court, seeks to ensure the possibility of economic and effective specialisation of judges by the most highly complex and specific cases in the area of patents. That amendment seeks to ensure greater legal certainty and efficiency of the protection and exercise of industrial property rights in relation to the review of decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute. The proposed amendments will also reduce the duration of the first-degree review procedure, in administrative cases for the recognition of industrial property rights, to power, to reduce the degree of review of decisions, from the current 3 to 2 degrees. In view of the fact that a two-stage administrative trial has been initiated since the establishment of the 2008 appeal procedure, there has been no justification for the existence of as many as 3 stages of review of decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute and further slows down the legal certainty for the parties in the third party's proceedings, with the said non-compliance of the formal status of the Boards of Appeal and their members with the system of state administration in practice continuously creating problems that hinder their effective action, and on several occasions such problems markedly caused long-term interruptions in their work and caused legal uncertainty regarding the validity of industrial property rights. These drafts of the proposed law in question, which are referred to in public opinion to competent and relevant state bodies, have been held public debates and all observations received have been included in the final texts of the draft law or have been duly removed. For the amendments made to that law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government since we do not expect it to have an impact on the overall state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70556	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Matko Gluncic for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. We have one replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70557	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it is nice to discuss here today a joint debate of 5 points, talk about innovation, but here we are talking about administrative procedure, we are talking about things that are not crucial, which will stimulate Croatian entrepreneurs to be more innovative and help them work easier. And that's why I'm asking you what's important. And that's whether in the innovation system, we finally launched this competition that was called 1.7.2017. 3 and 300 million euros, as far as I know, no one has received the appropriations yet. That's what we need to talk about here. That's what our entrepreneurs need. Tell us more about it, not about whether or not we will shorten the administrative procedure or how it will be or how someone will register it. That's very important, but if there's no other story, then there's no innovation, there's no need for administrative procedure. So here I am, protesting also as a anti-dynamics advocate imposed on us by the Croatian government, that basically EU funds are pulling very slowly. Here, this contest I mentioned here, which was programmed two and a few years ago, was launched in 2017. And I haven't heard yet that one entrepreneur has received funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70558	Thank you, dear colleague Marasa, for the response of my colleague Gluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70559	In principle, we don't know what contest they're competing for. It's probably not our ministry's competition, it's probably the Ministry of Economy's competition for... What? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, okay, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I can tell you that here I was just looking at it, do we need more funding, as far as the unit is concerned, with the funds withdrawn from the units of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, the unit concerning the Ministry of Science and Education, the withdrawal is very high. I can't find any more funding for any new projects, because we've practically put out everything we have right now. We hope that in the rebalancing process, it means that in this negotiation that will take place at the end of 6 months, we will provide additional funding from some other operational objectives. But I can tell you, it means withdrawing funds from European funds as far as science is concerned, very well. Here, a tender for these 100m-euro infrastructures has recently been opened and should be completed, so the results of the competition should be within a month. So there's really no objection. As far as innovation is concerned, I'm going to check, which is where the Ministry of Economy seems to me to be theirs and why it's been standing for so long, because it's really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70560	I thank you for your response to Secretary of State Gluncic. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70561	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have five laws in front of us, in the field of intellectual property. I'm not going to count them all again. What's important is that the subject matter of these laws, i.e. the amendment of existing laws, is actually the same, and these are legal medicines, to the decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute. In 2008, the Institute of Appeals for Decisions of Dispute in First Instance Procedures, the recognition of the right of industrial ownership was introduced for reasons specific to the process of recognition of the right in relation to other administrative procedures. So according to the applicable Law on Administrative Disputes, the possibility of appeal was excluded against the decisions of the Ministry and the central government of the administration, and all administrative disputes were resolved exclusively by the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia, which then was only one, which was why his work was burdened, primarily quantitatively, and additionally due to the fact that he had to decide on very numerous and different administrative areas, from intellectual property, tax, health insurance issues, etc. which resulted in a long period of time needed to come up with the decisions of that court, which, as a rule, only questioned the legality of the proceedings carried out, until it entered into the content of the administrative matter itself. So that was the situation back then, when this institution of appeals was introduced. Since the introduction of the Institute of Appeal and the establishment of the Boards of Appeal in 2008, there have been significant changes in the system of administrative trial, and in practice there have been formal legal and financial problems which systematically interfere with the work of the Boards of Appeal which raises the justification for further maintenance of such a system as it has been since 2008. The work of the Board of Appeals has been hampered for longer reasons due to a series of problems both formal and financial, as the most prominent have been the following problems. ...the authority of the Board of Appeals to make decisions on the context of their formal status. Since under the General Administrative Procedure Act adopted after the establishment of the Board of Appeal, administrative matters in the administrative procedure may be resolved by public authorities until the formal legal status of the Boards of Appeal has been regulated in this way. Furthermore, the inability to appoint presidents, vice presidents and members in changing the mandate due to insufficient number of interests of experts in this area. Problems related to possible indirect conflicts of interest of appointed members or lack of their full independence. Most experts in the nature of things are already involved in some of the aspects of the first-degree procedure. The direct conflict of interest is excluded but can happen to an indirect one especially in a situation in Croatia where we do have a limited number of experts in all areas, as well as in the field of intellectual property. These problems relate to determining the appropriate amount of compensation for the work of the Boards of Appeal and the allocation of budgets. Furthermore, as regards the change in administrative proceedings, the new Law on Administrative Disputes adopted in 2010 introduced a two-stage administrative trial with four first-degree Administrative Courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that administrative courts now monitor not only the very limited legality of administrative acts but also enters the measurement of things and analyzes this material meaning or content of the administrative acts themselves. In this way, the administrative trial system has been improved and is ensured to be effectively resolved by competent administrative courts. What is important is that the introduction of a two-stage administrative trial after the Board of Appeal was introduced led to the fact that we have as many as three stages of resolution in intellectual property protection procedures. Of course, the justification of this is questionable in particular from the aspect of ensuring adequate specialist expertise at each stage and the issue of course both the duration and the economy of such a long process. What I would like to add to what the Secretary of State has said is that the analysis of the applicable legislation from the section of the other authorities of the state administration which, as well as the institution, belongs to the category of state administrations as central authorities of the state administration, which includes the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, the State Geodetic Administration, the State Bureau of Measurement, shows that neither the solutions of these bodies are permitted by administrative proceedings nor against the solution can be initiated by administrative dispute. We have this situation in several regulations and in several laws, also some other bodies that are not the central authorities of the state administration are agencies, such as the Competition Protection Agency, also have an administrative dispute as a legal remedy and so far it works well in practice. Finally, I would refer to the obligation that we have made in the EU accession process, the issue has been raised on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, regarding Croatia's commitment to establish an appeal system in the negotiation process. What is important here is that Member States in the EU are free to define their own procedural rules, including criminal proceedings, civil proceedings, administrative proceedings and administrative disputes. These countries, however, are related to the principles of equivalence and efficiency within this autonomy, according to the case law of the EU court. The principle of equivalence means that the procedural protection of the rights arising from EU rules must not be weaker than those resulting from domestic rules. The principle of effectiveness, however, means that the protection of EU-based rights must be effective in a procedural sense regardless of how it has been implemented, means regardless of how it is implemented. So protection must be effective, but the way and the details of how it will be resolved are regulated by the state itself and it has procedural autonomy. So what is important is that national procedural law should not in practice make protection of subjective rights based on EU law norms impossible or excessively difficult. So this system that we have today, or what is proposed by these laws, that we have in the first degree one court on the decisions of the Institute of Intellectual Property, means the Administrative Court in Zagreb and in the second degree of the High Administrative Court, certainly does not make that protection impossible or excessively difficult, I think it is obvious to everyone. So to conclude, what is proposed will certainly speed up and facilitate the process of protecting intellectual property rights and therefore the HDZ club supports these drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70562	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear Sabine the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sokol, you said that all EU Member States have complete freedom to define legal medicines and also procedural protection of the rights of effectiveness and that the EU does not prescribe to detail how this should look. You're absolutely right about that. But I'll just remind you that we as the Republic of 2008 just set ourselves up for the Board of Appeal. I will quote only one part of the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by the law proposed by the government at the time means saying the following "introduction of the right to appeal against the decision of the Institute of Intellectual Property in accordance with the expertise of relevant European and domestic experts in the area of industrial property rights implemented under the EU CARDS 2001 programme with this law as well as other laws on changes and additions in the field of industrial property rights is proposed to introduce the right to appeal against decisions taken in the first degree. The introduction of the appeal procedure and the National Strategy for the Development of the IPR from 2005 to 2010 as a measure improving the IPR system. This law provides for the establishment of appeal councils to decide on complaints and to act at the Office for Independent Authorities, and thereafter "the adoption of these provisions is foreseen by the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7 of the intellectual property right of 18 October 2006 and by the EU Common Position at the Conference on Accession of Brussels on 14 February 2007", so that we decided to set up an appeal council nine years ago, today we decide to abolish the institute. No one on the board said that something had been imposed on us by the EU and that we had to stick to it as a drunk float, but I questioned whether it would affect everything that we possibly took and took over in the EU negotiation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70564	I thank my colleague, Voter, answer, colleague Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't even say there was some big disagreement, but let me explain some things. So that was our decision, and then we had every right to do that. But what's right, is something called... This is also true in international law, as well as in the conclusion of ordinary contracts, which is that contracts can be modified if circumstances have changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our case, however, the circumstances changed, in a way that a major reform of the administrative procedure was made, a new Law on General Administrative Procedure was adopted, after 50 and a few years, by the new Law on Administrative Disputes and the new Law on Courts, where a two-stage administrative trial was introduced. That's a big difference. And not only was there a two-stage administrative trial, but the jurisdiction of the administrative court was also changed, what I was just saying about the pay phone, which is that their powers are much wider in putting themselves into the decision-making measure. So just because of this change of circumstances, again, within our autonomy, legitimately makes decisions to simplify things, speed things up, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70566	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am interested in your opinion, which is why in Croatia as well as in many other areas of innovation, people are relying on themselves, there is no system, there is no support, it reminds me of sports, where our athletes are usually family projects, and here are projects of enthusiasm of innovative people who invest in themselves, in their knowledge. And then, for example, last year, when our innovators go to Genoa one of the biggest innovation fairs in the world, they get, like, six gold five silver and two bronze medals. One innovation is declared the best innovation of the fair, but what happens then. It's not applied in our economy. But those innovations are usually picked up by someone else. 70% of Croatian companies do not have a new product in their offer. So obviously something in the economy is wrong, i.e. in the way we treat ourselves as a state to the economy, how we make it easier, for example for innovative products and for certain investment in knowledge and innovation on these products. There's obviously something wrong with that. And I have a feeling that maybe Texo Management, doing innovation, then probably Ramljak, Daliæ and Škegro would come up with ways to propose legislation that would help these companies, but since they're dealing with Agrokor, they're now focused, only how to help themselves in Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70568	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70569	Thank you very much. I'm glad we're discussing this as always, when you're taking part in the debate, but I'd be happy to answer, although this has nothing to do with this law. So one of the problems is the very structure of our economy. So our economy is largely composed of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs where it is very difficult to start with some kind of research and development and create innovative products. That's a fact. Such things are much easier to do, large companies, large technology companies, which are simply not largely part of the Croatian economic system. There are, but simply, the structure of the economy makes it difficult. However, another thing I would like to touch, which is what the state does and you mentioned some funds, etc. So just last week, we had in this House a new law of state aid for research projects. So it's a law that, it's an area left in the legal gap since 1.1.2015, when the then government unfortunately did not prepare for what they knew, which is that the regulations that provided these support will cease to exist. And because of the situation then, which in 2014 was nothing to do with it, we have come into a situation where we have a legal void and that this government has to deal with it. What is important, however, is that this government, with its proposal for a Law on State aid for labour and what is a change from before, is that this law explicitly excludes financial services as an area where state aid can be achieved. So, the government, through this bill, has been anticipating that there may be some things that are not in line with what the law is about to achieve. And to the right of those areas excluded. So I think these parallels you pull just don't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70570	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for his reply. Here you go, Mr. Maras. No, I don't. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70571	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sokol, so I agree with you that's what the government's representative here said and you've repeated, I have no doubt that it will be more effective to protect all those who decide to refer to the decisions of the State Institute for Intellectual Property. However, for the sake of truth, we must mention here, and that is always what we have talked about so far about reforms, any judicial system, any reform of education, pardon, these health institutions, has always somehow ignored the principle of closer protection. Because people opposed it when it came to the abolition of hospitals, when they talked about the abolition of certain courts. And here we have the case in fact that everything, and of course, for specific reasons, the whole problem will be taken over by the Administrative Court in Zagreb. So we have to point out. It will not be in Osijek, Osijek, Split or Rijeka, but only in Zagreb will it be the administrative court, which will be in charge. From the point of view of the number of complaints filed, it is not a problem, only having 73 of them may even be submitted by non-Citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So either the legal person who only has seats here, and they have... Somewhere further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this should not be a problem, however, I will look only at the reasoning of the part of the law, when it says, as regards the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia by abolishing the possibility of an appeal decision... there will be a slight reduction in the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia with the basis of the fee of the costs of the appeal procedure at the same time as the corresponding increase in income with the grounds for court charges for administrative proceedings." That makes sense. However, it may be in line with what counterpart Maras is, and it is not negligible to say when we talk about patents and the innovations of natural persons, to enable them not to pay these court fees, to pay the ministry or state instead. That would be...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70572	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70573	Thank you very much. As far as the jurisdiction of one administrative court is concerned, I would just point out two things, perhaps to explain the reasons why it is explicitly prescribed. First, administrative trial is a very broad area, so administrative proceedings and administrative disputes cover the widest part of the different areas of law as I have already said from tax to intellectual property. And that's why if you have different courts to decide on, then you really have to invest in the specialization of judges in their education narrow specialization in each area, etc. I think it's simpler this way. The second thing is that according to the general rules on jurisdiction and such a huge percentage of these procedures will come right before the Administrative Court in Zagreb, this is just further precise. As far as court fees are concerned, I don't think that part is regulated by this law, so now we have a whole package of judicial reform and more laws in the process, so here's a suggestion. I believe that the Ministry of Justice and the DOJ will analyse it if they think it's something they should do, why not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70574	I thank my colleague Falcone. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Proposer, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support a package of laws regarding how to call it intellectual property. What we just want to contribute to is the faster procedures to be resolved, I won't say complaints in this case right now, so the less financial burden on citizens and the greater legal protection. What you yourselves have said in your opening statement to this proposal of the law, we are repealing the Board of Appeal as second-degree bodies that have so far reviewed the decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute, on the other hand, ensuring the right to press charges to the Administrative Court in Zagreb for first-degree decisions of the State Institute for Intellectual Property in administrative cases for the recognition of the right of patents of industrial property. And what I hope will happen would be extremely significant, and it is stated in the light of the law that the urgency of the proceedings will be prescribed before the Administrative Court. What we also want to emphasise is that we hope that this amendment to the law will not require more significant financial effects on the state budget through the PFU form that follows this law is clear, but we must take into account that when we transfer all these disputes which have so far been resolved by the Board of Appeal to the administrative courts that we must be prepared to do so. I hope that you have foreseen the situation that human capacities in these administrative courts and the financial capacity with which they are able to deal with these procedures as you have said by an urgent procedure and that those who are now actually desiring legislation will be transferred from the Board of Appeal to the administrative courts will also be victims of the slowness and tromility of the Croatian judiciary. I am on the board, and even here in one replica, we only asked, in fact nine years ago, we decided on a different path in criminal negotiations with the EU to protect the rights of our citizens as strongly as possible and to ensure more effective legal medicines. We have established exactly this institution of the Board of Appeal where the parties could complain about first-degree or solutions of the State Intellectual Property Institute. If they were not satisfied with the decisions of the Board of Appeal themselves, then they went to the administrative courts in that third degree. After we established that, we just realized that it doesn't work exactly how it should work. During the period 2011 to 2015, the work of the Boards of Appeal as stated in the reasoning of the law itself has been difficult, the number of pending cases has increased. Since 2015, this work has somehow been accelerated by 220 other appeal cases, however, the Board of Appeal manages to halve that number of pending cases into 110. And now the only question is, are we sure if there were some subjective, objectively unfunctioning Boards, and they were in one part caused by the ineffectiveness of the state I will say so, because of insufficient financial resources, so because of the unclearly prescribed law where it was questioned, as you yourself said to the board the actual jurisdiction of these Boards of Appeals. What was presented as one argument holding the water on the committee itself is that many members of these Boards of Appeal could come into a potential conflict of interest. But we need to ask ourselves if it's not all the circumstances that we could and should have known when we changed the law in 2008 and the question of jurisdiction and the fact that we don't have so many legal experts that we could hire them in the Board of Appeal so that they wouldn't be involved in any of the processes or procedures that come before them. I mean, it's a little awkward that we may waste time unnecessarily and that we always have to learn from our mistakes, learn lessons from our mistakes and go by that method of trying and making mistakes. And now we're going back in some way where we were nine years ago, and in the hope that this process will still speed up as we heard in the meantime, a new Law on Administrative Procedure has been passed, has been reformed in some way and the courts, which should contribute really to greater legal protection of citizens and faster resolution through faster resolution of these proceedings. We have no others but to believe that you have made a quality analysis and that what you are proposing will indeed be a solution that will satisfy both in some way. So the first time we say "citizens," we force the courts to automatism, we get the impression that we're going to put extra financial burden on them. I'd like to hear from the motion guarantee here that it won't be like that. In any case, we will take your word for it, we will trust your bases and conclusions that you have come to why this law should be returned to the old in the hope that it will receive adequate results and expected accelerations and greater protection of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70577	I thank my colleague, Voter, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70578	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice, you rightly wonder if in this case all those seeking legal protection will increase their costs. What's the problem when we talk about patents, I'm going to talk about these only now in this replica. You know, the whole patent protection process is a very complex procedure. It requires both certain knowledge and often those who have an idea for patents, who have an idea for innovation, do not have those knowledge needed to lead to patent protection. The truth is that in most cases they get state support and in the main state support if it's... 20,000 kunas, mostly patent protection, all the way through the process. And then they actually get into a situation where they don't have the money when they need it most, and that's the problem with this society, and that's the problem in the end that they're pointing out here in the light of the law, just 73 complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree if the transfer to administrative courts will speed up this procedure that there are no three degrees, however, the Board of Appeal could be converted to the councils that will lead, which will actually, let's call it this, the patent office. The state patent office that will lead all of our innovators to come to the end of the final product, i.e. to finally protect your patent and to start producing that patent. We have a bunch of innovators today who don't just know how to do it and many of these patents today, innovations stand in drawers because they haven't found the end and hearing for production. And here we are dealing with, therefore, complaints and we are not dealing with what is causing the whole story, which is helping innovators in this society and innovation is the only way to raise the level of production and competitiveness of Croatian production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70579	I thank my colleague, Sagar. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70580	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, you're probably more professional than I am, and I come to that conclusion from this replica of yours. Yes, I don't know if the State Institute of Intellectual Property fits all needs and how the results of the research would be if we were to examine the satisfaction of the users with his work, in this particular case of our innovators. I don't know if this idea of yours sounds good to me, about how to say it, today I'm missing some real words, about some re-design, about rerouting the Board of Appeals to a service that would actually be the right hand of the innovators, and I don't know if you thought they were also some kind of legal representative or free legal protection, but in any case, where the Croatian helmet is an investment in innovation and I think that any help that can contribute to the development of innovation in Croatia and strengthen the position of the innovators in Croatia is welcome, so maybe this is also your good idea, I'm really not that professional, and I'll probably have to answer to the motion in my reasoning on all our proposals, remarks and criticism on the bill, but an interesting proposal in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70581	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague of the Voice. Mr. Mako Gluncic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70582	I'm just going to brief on the fee. So now for the administrative dispute these fees go from 100 to 500 kuna. And the Board of Appeal went for the patent of 2 800 kuna, for the stamp of 1,800 kuna, for the industrial design of 1 100 and for this geographical 1,000 kuna. So this makes it easier for someone who wants to sue for simply spending less money on a complaint.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70583	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Gluncic. We have one replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70584	If we're looking at fees, yes, but if I get it right, we can't rule out the costs of the procedure that you didn't mention, right? So we can't safely argue or say that what you've listed as a comparison is actually the only parameter. Yes, in the case of appeal proceedings with appeal committees, that story begins and ends but the court proceedings are something else, here the story just starts which doesn't mean that... We already know how our citizens go to court and how they actually know how to end these costs and whose costs they go to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, maybe I didn't get it right, but please answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70585	Thank you, Secretary of State Mr. Gluncic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70586	So also now, if they are not satisfied with the decision of the Board of Appeal, they can go to trial. So the procedure can go the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70587	Thank you for your response. Comrade Voter, did you raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or...? Well, since you haven't, we continue to debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70588	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a group of five legal proposals ahead of us. Let's say a few things about that. These five legislative proposals have already been held in a parliamentary debate. So, we've already had a chance to see this during that short period of Oreshkovic's government that we forgot it was already, so it was already at the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, so we already think most of the votes said it went into the second reading, so the second reading didn't happen, so now we have it again in the first reading, so we'll have it in the second reading, so there won't be that two times it's twice but related to these three laws will be three times it's three times. This government has decided to make all the legal proposals in two readings, which I am in principle absolutely in favour of and I think that's good. But the same there seems to me that these five legislative proposals were not some great reason for them not to go in the first and second reading, given that we had already had them in the first reading once, so this is the second time the first reading, so somehow I would say one voice of reason and decisions absolutely respect, but this is exactly the bill that I think there would be no major obstacles in the House to decide both first and second reading. So much for that. Now let's discuss the subject of the Board of Appeal and the two-degree trial. Of course, if I were to finish this first thought and say, it would be good if we'd already got it. I don't see what was the reason we've been waiting for a year and a half again, so we're going back to the scale of things. These five legislative proposals propose the abolition of the Board of Appeal and that is good and that is the way it should be. For what reason? Let's imagine the situation we've had all this time and there's a questionnaire and that's in a certain way that you've been waiting for so far, so it could have already been in effect. So today, when someone decides, they have the possibility of a council of appeals. What we know from the experience of who worked with the Board of Appeals that the Board of Appeals doesn't work, that there aren't enough experts that you can include in the Board of Appeals because they're already interested in some things, that these Boards of Appeals cost and that then my experience, I must say, that there are always some subjective assessments in which there may be some other things. And after the Board of Appeal, someone who is unhappy with the decision of the Board of Appeal goes to the Administrative Court in the first degree and goes to the Administrative Court in the second degree, instead of getting one propulsion, to get the possibility that solutions are being made faster, to get the possibility of us deciding these things faster than when we have a new Law on General Administrative Procedure complicated our lives to our citizens, and that is clearly to be said. When it was possible through EU negotiations, then all the authorities of the state administration, or better to say to the ministries and central bodies, opted for the Board of Appeal, why? Because they were insecure in a certain way, so they thought they were just going to the Board of Appeal, so let them decide what they're going to do and how they're going to do it. In real life and real life, it turns out that it doesn't work. I'm always in favour of the GLAS and HSU club, and we stand for the option if you see that something doesn't work, if you see that something isn't good change in a way that for our citizens and for those who come, those bodies get better. So I really have to say this way I'd like to say a lot more that these two laws are first and second reading together, and that's how we show that we want to solve something, the second thing is that we've been waiting. So we've already had our first reading so now first reading for the second time, but that's no reason why we won't support it but there's more reason to somehow give support to finish that story, let's really make it work. What's equally important, let's do a little bit of what it means to be experienced. You can see about from the material you've had a chance to read, so down is one fus note that somewhere between 3 and 5% there were complaints or there were demands and unsatisfactory solutions. I was taught that when it's up to 10% it means it's done well. Therefore, if the complaint is further administrative disputes or what is below 10% on the solution of one governing body, then the theme is to do well. So I don't doubt you're doing well. Equally so look at the little explanation you don't have the effort to read it, but the reasoning of these five laws is extremely well done. We had a law in discussion last week that we discussed all day, and the reason for that law was 2.5 pages. The explanation of this is extremely well done, why, why, why, so that I with these little criticisms but you understand it well-intentioned indeed and commending the reasoning of these laws and it would be better if more laws had such an explanation because he has rare parliamentary representatives although we have them, that Renaissance guy to understand everything. But there are MPs who have certain topics, and they may be interested in these topics, so it's always good to read the explanation because you can see some other things from the explanation. In conclusion, it's about five laws, it's about laws that we actually comply with the general administrative procedure, it's about something that's going to go three times for this House, so we have this, and it's about something that we at the GLAS and HSU club are doing as a step forward and it's good to move forward and it's good that we get faster and it's good that our citizens get security because in this way and what my experience these Boards are rarely meeting somehow strangely deciding and they're still an additional burden because they are also financial burden. Now why did I decide to say a little bit more even though I said I was close, but that's always the most dangerous thing for you when someone tells you I only have a sentence, two of which is a mole and two pages. The administrative trial, now, part of what we need to know is that we have lawyers working in general without wanting to comment, but they also have another problem, when they get some new situations, a new case until legal practice is established. It seems to me no matter what, it is good that it has decided to be in one court and that this court establishes legal practice, and then when it is established and when it is seen then it will no longer be a problem to go to other courts because in this case it will also get different practices in different courts that is what when we talk about the Croatian judiciary and what keeps us down, and that is to get different legal practices like this in a certain way the security that will be tried in the same way. And now here we come to the subject of the metrics, me from the bill's proposal, I'm actually reading, that it's always on the scale that you don't even get into, that when there was an appeal council, or a lawsuit, that it wasn't going in, that someone was better, like this, or something like that, but it was always going into the procedure. And I don't doubt that in the administrative courts, regarding the procedure, it will be decided in the way it should be done. So, we're going to support it, and somehow it's a request to the Proposer, give what you want before you finish that story and have a clear, legal situation related to these five laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70589	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash, for this debate. We have several replicas, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Mrak, I have been very interested in listening to and supporting this way, in which you have explained very briefly, therefore, everything we are talking about today and I fully agree with you that this should have been settled as soon as possible. And it's good to discuss this unitedly today, so these five total laws. 3 The basic reasons, first of all, the Board of Appeal is in the form in which they are now, indeed, either difficult to function or do not function at all and we must agree on that. Furthermore, what I think is a pretty big problem is that we really don't have enough experts and it's hard to recruit them. So, first of all, he has a hard time and sometimes he has a lot of problems with the appointment of presidents, deputies, members themselves, and I don't think it's irrelevant, not to point out, that in practice there are a number of problems, which are related to possible indirect conflict of interest. So, the people who were appointed to the Board of Appeal and what I think is, if you had noticed well, that in both cases and in most cases, after the decision of the Board of Appeal, you are going to the administrative court anyway, so either in the first or second degree. And of course, the practice has pointed to difficulties, and in fact the laws are there to improve practice and in that sense, I think that just determining jurisdiction, only one court for intellectual property rights cases, will, above all, bring an evening of court practice, so specialising in individual cases, which, in any case, must give our citizens more legal certainty as a result, so I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70591	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70592	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, indeed when changes are made and the law is complemented, we need to know why we are doing this. We often tend to make changes and supplement laws to make them work. In a particular case, we know exactly why we're doing it. We know that for the right to simplify our lives to our citizens. We're experts, I'd say in these climates, how to complicate something. And when does it get complicated? When you're not sure. Well, then you'd better have your decision one more time, then another time, then a third time. And that's why the Board of Appeals started. I always say that from my own experience. I've been through this story from my own experience, and we've all made it easy for the Board of Appeal, so some Board of Appeals will be there, so we'll have security. But behind that, we have a trial, through 2 degrees, to which we had to, therefore, not our wish, it was a wish, where the EU asked us to agree with legislation. And now, instead of being more pro-pulsive, to be all together, we are now, out of our own uncertainty, introducing the Board of Appeals. And what brings us to the Board of Appeal? That you don't have people, that you have to pay these people, that no one will, because I always say, I won't be on the Board of Appeal, maybe I'll be on the other side, and actually, instead of that, you've introduced more uncertainty. What we really need to strive for in legislation, to be simple, to be feasible and to actually go to our citizens' favorites, so that's our basic task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70593	I thank my colleague Taritash for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70594	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, as always, your debate was based on what will actually enable this legislative proposal, which we will benefit from, how applicable it is in practice. You are right, when you say that this, too, amending this legislative framework directly affects efficiency, not only the proceedings here in the field of complaints, the decisions made by the State Intellectual Property Institute, but generally such a legislative change can affect the number of patents. And look at America in 2015 when there was a serious change in patent legislation, there was a sharp increase in patents. That doesn't have to be ignored. We're compared to, say, Switzerland, by the number of patents per million residents, you know how many 27 thousand times lower. So they have 892, and we have 3.2 according to the European Patent Office report. Croatia is out of 48 ranked countries, only 41 places. So this change of legislation must also go in this direction to increase the number of patents and the number of innovations in Croatia, because this is the way towards both the Croatian economy and the general position of Croatia in economic terms, to a short Europe. And another degression, in two-thirds of the patents in advanced states, you're doing big companies, innovations, two-thirds watch out, one-third just small entrepreneurs. Our situation is completely reversed. With us big companies, you're very little invested in innovation. You know why? Because they have a monopoly on the market. Take public companies with them a small number of innovations, except, one thing, I don't know his name and name, the man in HEP who made an exceptional innovation, which in his company saved considerable financial resources and, of course, without compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70595	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70596	Thank you very much fellow Sagar, you've actually touched the essences in your replica. You, we must create a clear legal framework through our legislation. If there is no clear legal framework, then there are a number of concerns and a number of questions, and therefore it is good that this is the case and that is why it is good for a court to decide because that is how you acquire a legal practice through some changes. The next one might decide to be other courts, but you have to do it that way. I must admit that I am always saddened when I read where Croatia is related to a number of things, so let's just say about adult education we are convincing in the last place. So we had the opportunity to see that last week's law where Deputy Prime Minister Dalic spoke about the law where 3% of the EU has decided to support innovation and everything, Croatia is at 0.85 with a desire to reach some 1.5% and the EU at 2.3%. So it's a series of things that make us sad. But it seems to me that all the laws we need to go in a way that we're moving forward. And I'm really reading this as a step forward, and so I've discussed it, and I absolutely need to give support, but it just needs a little bit, a little bit faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70597	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70598	Thank you, Comrade Tarritash. In your debate, you pointed out the lawmaking process, or how it has been since the Oreshkovic government, and when we adopt this law, and I believe that we will all be more or less in agreement, the question is how it will help in key things, which is to increase the number of innovations, so that Croatia will not be at the innovation capacity of 122 countries in the world and how to enable Croatian companies and entrepreneurs to be better at innovation. The key does not lie in administrative procedures and the answer does not lie in administrative procedures, the answer lies in a greater engagement not only of the state but also of entrepreneurs and employees because Croatia has the biggest problem in that entrepreneurs probably and insufficiently engage their employees in order to withdraw and advance innovation. Of course, the public sector has a big impact, as a colleague said earlier. Public companies rarely reach out to this in the public sector in our almost so the biggest companies are very little working on it, a little motivated by people, not trying to stimulate them to contribute to innovation in the company itself because if there is no innovation, there can be no purpose in itself. Innovation must be in the service of change in the economy and society. So there is too little in Croatia, too little is invested, too little is encouraged, too little is said about it, and of course there is the biggest problem and of course it will not solve the changes of these few laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70599	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70600	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I agree with you absolutely in this regard. So we can have great laws, we can also have these laws clearly defined administrative-legal procedures, we can have it all on paper, it can work great, but what we need to change, and that's our thinking and the way we treat it together. When it comes to the problem that was defined by this law among other things, I would point to two facts and I would like us all to imagine the two facts that were both last week. One was the fact where the mayors met and said there should be a special fund from which compensation for damages to EU projects for unintentional errors made by the county. So they know in advance that they're going to make unintentional mistakes and they need one fund to refund it from. And the second topic was already mentioned by the law which was last week in the debate which was said, so I will convince it a little bit, and the following is said, you are applying to certain innovations in front of the Ministry of Economy, make projects by that project, withdraw funds from the EU, and at some point the EU decides that there is something wrong in the project, and you have to return money to the entrepreneur who actually applied. The contractor won the project and realised it thanks to the ministry. So the ministry's commitment, the ministry could have assessed the project guilty. What other words do I want to make for comparison? When we introduced the Board of Appeal, we weren't sure until the end, so we introduced the Board of Appeal as one fuse. We are now not so sure that we will work well and apply to the EU and withdraw funds, and now we will transfer that responsibility to some fund or to those who will receive EU funds and that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70601	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70602	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues. Both the HSS and I personally agree with you that it is necessary to speed up the procedure for the adoption of these five laws because, in a certain way, we are in line with European legislation, we support every new law that goes in the direction of improving the position of our craftsmen, entrepreneurs, businessmen on the market and that we should adopt as soon as possible what should be the tool for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs to invest more in new knowledge, innovation in protecting their intellectual ownership in patents because it will certainly contribute to the economic development of the Republic which and what we hope is our goal. And surely it is necessary to reduce these procedures, facilitate this legislative framework towards craftsmen and entrepreneurs because it is not a problem for large and small businesses where they have both legal services and experts who follow them. The problem is when a craftsman or an OPG or a micro entrepreneur comes up with some idea that innovation should patent their product, there is often not enough legal assistance on the ground, and that is why I am here and replicating because I know what the situation is on the ground especially that in the less developed areas you do not have in the craftsman’s chamber or in the Chamber of Commerce enough legal knowledge to help experts, so the ministry should figure out how to transfer that knowledge to the field when a craftsman or entrepreneur has an idea to help him patent his product. And on the other hand, what we also miss, when it already succeeds in this legal procedure, is the problem of placing that product on the market, there is also Croatia at the beginning of the European community and we need to come up with better models to co-finance this craftsman or entrepreneur and help him develop his product in Croatia rather than carry it outside Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70603	Thank you, colleague Vlaović. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70604	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, that's right. There is also a colleague, Maras, mentioned some topics that are outside the scope of this law, but it's a good thing he mentioned them and that it can be answered. What we need to change in the way it works at all, we need to change this attitude of some kind of public administration towards the citizens. Very often, this relationship is based on the situation “here we are now and now someone is coming, and now someone would ask and bother. ” All public administrations must be a service to their citizens, it is financed from the budget, it is financed by these citizens, and in this sense the way they act should be changed. So this is one framework where we're going to do something more pro-pulsory but I really agree, you have companies that have lawyers and that can absolutely say... But the individual feels like he's in Kafka's book, he goes door to door, every time someone does something to him and he says "well, I'll do it," someone says, "Sign with a green pen," he signs with a green pen, and the second time I have to, I caricate, sign a purple pen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we need to do is move the entire work and all procedures must be open and transparent. It's good to do it on websites, but it's good to do it with some kind of education, once in 6 months, once in a year, say "there's going to be a round table on that topic," you know, but Croatia is such a small country and we have something over 4 million and anyone who gets into that story will find someone who was so able to tell him something. So these legislative frameworks will really explain something, but I repeat, we can have perfect laws but the laws are implemented by people and there is always the key to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70605	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrak-Taritash for his reply. Before further discussion at the gallery were joined by students and students of OŠ "Alojzija Stepinca" from Zagreb, I welcome them and their teachers and welcome them to a pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, I hope he hears a lot of good in our Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] We're moving on to the next individual debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Much is said and said, as is the SDP's Club of Representatives, and I will support the amendments to the law, but I must once again point out that innovation must not in itself be a purpose but must be in official change and society and the most economics because it allows our society to change in quality. And what are we talking about when, in Croatia, only research and development is singled out, only 0.84% of GDP? This is insufficient, it would even say below average, but at the bottom of EU countries or there are several countries that stand out similar, but far from countries like Sweden that single out 3.25% or Austria that singles out 3.09% of GDP. And then we are surprised in Croatia when the integration of innovation and the economy is almost gone, when economic growth is relatively low in the partnership with countries with which we would like to compare especially when we talk about nominal GDP or how strong our economy is per capita, so it simply can't be nor can it be compared as long as investment in research and development is at 0.84% of GDP in 2016. If we want to be an economy, as an economy, to devote ourselves to industries where the main focus is not on high added value but on a large role of work, then this is enough, but then we will not have a high level of GDP per capita in the Republic of Croatia and we will never be able to compete closely with countries like Austria, Sweden, Germany etc. As far as our capacity or innovation capacity is concerned, Croatia is in a very bad 122nd place in the world, and autumn for the main reasons is that the employment of people in companies is not their fault but the guilt of a society that has not been so targeted is 140 out of 141 countries that have been measured and that is something that is very devastating to us. On the other hand, we are slightly better placed on the global index of innovation, and we are 42. because this measures 7 parameters and what most raises us lately is the growing IT industry, or a lot of companies that are being opened here and that show more and more each day on the Croatian market, or on the world market, and there we are very far away. I think that in the future we should also try to give as much support to these companies as possible, because here employees are creating innovations, new products, and there is what is most visible, connected between those who work and those who sell at the end of that service, i.e. companies that create added value. And that's why it's a good thing we're going to change this law, and that's why it's a good thing that the administrative part might get a little smaller, but it would be a lot more important, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on how to encourage people, to hire their employees, to stimulate, for example, companies with the tax exemption of some contributions, if their workers are working on innovation. For example, why should it not be a proposal for workers, who spend their working hours, improved products and the development of new products in the company to be freed from full pay contributions, means that in this way we show direct assistance to our companies and that this increases I would say, the influence of the state and the impact of legislation on a larger amount of innovation in Croatia. On the other hand, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, when we have some negative examples, then we are very innovative. We are very innovative when an opportunity is found to earn money quickly, as was found around Agrokor, where from Škegri's incubator, Martina Dalic and Ante Ramljak, the meaning of clearly fast law, which enables a few companies to make 250,000 kuna a week. It's the same innovation that they really possess, some unfortunately own some of them in HDZ, not all of them, and I'm sorry that it's so, that when a legal solution makes it possible for their close friends, business associates, companies, to make millions of dollars, they take advantage of it in HIP. This innovation, it showed up at Martina Dalic and Ante Ramljak incredibly. It is not a positive social flow, it is not what we need and such innovation should be avoided and I hope that the diameter Plenkovic will sanction this kind of innovation by Martina Dalic and Ante Ramljak. We have been waiting for this for 8 days now, but obviously, innovation, Martine Dalic is still very important to Andrej Plenkovic, and people still earn 250,000 kunas per week, while the employees of Konzum go and earn several thousand kunas, small salaries, 3, 4 thousand kunas, small wages, which are made bloodyly, to feed themselves and their families. And now, here, I'm trying to show that in the state of innovation, on the one hand we don't stimulate them, when it comes to those socially useful in companies, new products, etc. ... 0.85% of GDP is invested in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when it comes to creating 2009 or 2010 a law or a decision on funds of economic co-operation, here again is the same team that comes up with a way to make money. And on the other hand, in 2017, when the Agrokor crisis opened up, they immediately engage in a few days, it's amazing that speed, innovation, which makes them come up with laws and possibilities, to say, friends, compatriots, close ones, millions and millions of kuna. And I ask you, don't support, colleagues and fellow MPs, especially you from HDZ, don't support that kind of innovation anymore, because that's what people there do for you. Don't back it up. I once again support my colleagues who have proposed this law, because I think it is a good kind of innovation, to speed up processes and procedures. But once again I warn and pray for everyone here, do not support Martina Dalic's innovation to come up with a law to make some quick money when the next opportunity is created. Here, I pray you, and I hope, and I can see from your perspective that you are also aware, that here, Boric Air-headed, will never allow it again, customs and believes it will be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70607	I thank my colleague Maras, Article 238, has prescribed that we have to talk about the subject, you have made a fine pass, I beg you, that in the future I did not want to interrupt you because you are not the only one who gets off the track a little bit, but I am asking you to talk about the topic in the future. And I also ask you, as I have asked before, colleagues and fellow MPs, that you do not demean anyone with your own words, nor any representative or representative, nor any club of any kind. Thank you very much, I hope you will honor my appeal. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70608	Thank you very much, Vice President, since you gave up your notice, I am giving up, because I also wanted to warn my colleague that Article 232 and Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because he's out of the picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70609	Thanks, I didn't give a warning, I just warned nicely and asked my colleague, Maras, to stay away from such expressions and behaviors in the future. We move on to replicas, dear colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70610	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I repeat once again that we support the adoption of these five laws, to create a quality tool, to create an entrepreneurial climate, to develop innovation and to raise the economy. But I also agree with you that the law itself will not contribute to this, that more should be invested in this sector, especially in new knowledge, technology, innovation and patent protection and assistance to our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. And I wanted to point out, once again, that after this separation from the state budget to the Republic of Croatia, we are at the beginning of Europe, but our innovators regularly win high prizes at the exhibitions and should be congratulated and be accompanied by associations of innovators who work in the Republic. And I repeat once again that this knowledge and financial assistance should be put down from the state level either through crafts and commercial chambers or through state bodies and local and regional self-government to be partners with innovators' associations in this business. And since you mentioned that in Croatia the number of innovations in IT technologies are growing, here is a new example of how innovative we are. For example, JANAF is on a public call to build a gas tank, it is mostly a meditative product business entrusted to the competition IT company one and one company in a consortium that does glass façades. You see how innovative we are. Đuro Đaković, who has worked for years, has knowledge, workers and technology, could not pass the competition, and it is innovative that the journalist's inquiry is answered that these two companies from IT technology and glass façades have proposed all the necessary documentation and references to get these jobs, here is how we take care of a strategic company of particular interest and jobs in Đura Đaković, but we are growing IT companies and technologies and innovations in Croatia, so here we hope that everyone will welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70611	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70612	Thank you very much. You didn't mention something in your replica that's very important to say. So this IT firm is connected to the minister of one in the Croatian government and you have not yet mentioned one thing to see that they have also registered for the maintenance of drones or even aircraft. So it's important to follow who's doing what and why he's doing what, and that's why I told you not to be innovative in that part where you take advantage of the chance of someone you're connected to if you're in power. It's not a good kind of innovation, unfortunately we see it now in practice. And as for Djura Djakovic, it's amazing to me. So a company in Slavonski Brod that needs work can't do a job, it's also connected to the state-owned state can't get a job with JANAF, but a private company that deals with what you've said dominantly and who has never done it enters the business and thus a reference to these companies that have done it, and on the other hand, employment in Slavonski Brod, and you're aware of how it is and in this way we certainly don't help the local community. That's why it just stabs people in the eye and I hope things like that don't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70613	I thank Mr. Maras for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70614	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras. So you're absolutely right. The amount of money invested in innovation and development in the Republic of Croatia is too low, and then it causes what is our goal, which is that we cannot primarily achieve economic growth, export growth, increase in jobs and increase in average wage. What I'm saying right now is I'm not saying straight replicas, but this is based on the data presented by the European Patent Office and the EU for Intellectual Property. In fact, the survey showed that 42% of the total economic activity in the EU is worth almost 5.7m euros a year to create industries that are intensively using intellectual property rights, and around 38% of all EU employees are directly or not directly from industries that are used above average by intellectual property rights. The report also states that average wages in industries that are intensively using intellectual property rights are more than 46% than in other industries. And just one more piece of information, companies that intensively use design generated from 18% of EU GDP and achieved 38.7 million jobs. So investment in innovation and development is extremely important and, of course, setting legal legislation because in the Republic of Croatia, when those who know, they can also take key places in this society at the end of the day and in the economy, we will have progress. And what you're saying in the last line, so to speak, picturesquely, give me a good contract to see how positive I'm going to be, of course, a contract in business with the state. And today our entrepreneurs are mostly successful entrepreneurs the moment they deal with the state and get good contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70615	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagaru, for the replica. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70616	Thank you very much. I told my colleague, Žagar, not by accident the Swedish economy and one country that has ten million inhabitants, is twice as big as Croatia but is not global as it would say, a force and economy that, in itself, allows its companies to make some steps. But we see what companies come from Sweden. And it's certainly connected to people realizing that the only innovation, competitiveness, productivity can make a step up, and so I'm saying it's not by no chance that I don't know IKEA or any other company like Ericsson and others. So on the side, we need to see why Croatia is having a good time, now it is not only a problem for Croatia that we extract 0.84, but it is one of the problems why our economy does not catch up with developed economies and that is why we are not more competitive and that is why some countries that are much easier to grow at higher rates if your economy is less developed than if it is highly developed. And that's why he often deceives this game of percentages of GDP growth where our special members of the government are praised by 2.3% and then compared to Germany. Yes, when the level is low 2, 3% is much less than when the level is high and much more difficult to achieve these 2.3% when the economy's development is high. So we should compare with countries that have a similar economic development, for example, one Romania has a 7.8% growth annually. So without more investment in innovation, it certainly won't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70617	I thank Mr. Maras for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70618	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our country should patent a way to take an innocent man a million kunas. In fact, believe it or not, in Croatia it is possible and I suggest that those who allow such a thing, freely report to the Institute of Intellectual Property and patent that model. It's about the case of the deputy editor of the Evening List that the criminal committed or blocked for almost a million kunas because of the text he didn't write. In 2014, Mislav Šimatović learns that he is blocked and is not clear about what is going on, goes to FINA and is said to be in Kafka's "Process". In his own time, he was the editor of the Nationals and a man who was accused of crime, he was called Vullnet Sedolli, he was there in the National context that he was part of a criminal group operating on the River and Kvarner, and now what's going on? It happened that this man who was written to be a criminal, he sued Nacional and claimed he wasn't a criminal and the court said he needed to make an apology. For every day when the apology wasn't done, the fine was 2,000 kuna for the editor-in-chief, but what happened? There was a rosada in Nacional and at the moment when Mislav Šimatovic, if I am not mistaken, and here we will now say exactly, that, Mislav Šimatovic, became editor-in-chief, he did not know about the existence of the verdict and he was charged with 2,000 kuna fines every day. Why does it matter? It's important because later this same man will execute him for nearly a million kuna with one note, and the note is that later this same man is convicted as part of a criminal group, and now what's going on? At the same time, the court ruled that the man was offended, that false information was written about him, one court made that decision, and the other court subsequently ruled that he was guilty, that he was part of a criminal group, etc. However, the court of the one who made the decision that Mislav Šimatovic must pay a million kunas, or the tight interest and the penalty, does not want to bring down that verdict and this man, Mislav Šimatovic, has to pay a million kuna, will never come out of debt, will be blocked to death, why? In the end, because there was an article in the Nationals that was actually true, that's why. Because they dared to write the truth, the truth that was rightly proven. So this man he sued for libel, which he did, and Nacional, he was eventually convicted. Why is our judiciary protecting the interests of a convicted criminal and not a journalist or current deputy editor of the Evening List, Mislav Šimatovic? And that tells you all about the state of freedom of the media, the freedom of journalists and in general. Whatever you say, you can be sued. Even when I play the case and prove you were right, it doesn't change things, you're still guilty. If this were possible, I do not understand and appeal to the Constitutional Court to challenge this exercise, to allow man to live a normal life further because this is a question of humanity, this is a question of man as a man, protecting his right to a normal life which is currently due to the Croatian judiciary, disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70619	I thank my colleague Pernar for this final word. My colleague Pernar, I have really listened to you very carefully, and with the best of will, I have not recognized a single detail of the subject that we are discussing and on the basis of Article 238, you must talk about the subject and I really ask you in the future better to seek a break that will be granted to you, so talk about current political situations, and do not abuse the Institute of Final Words and talk about a subject that has nothing to do with what we are discussing, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education Mr. Matko Glunčić and the Director of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, Ms. Ljiljani Kuterovac, for the reasons. It will vote on this item of the agenda, i.e. these items of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70620	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on patents, first reading, P.Z. No. 271st Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law amending the patent law and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant, to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 120 votes for, have reached a conclusion, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70893	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision to amend the concession decision for the use of water power for the production of electricity "Croatian electricity" d.d. Zagreb, in HE Zakučac, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 175. Water law and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Law and Economy, the competent Committee on Agriculture. I'd like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. María Šiljeg, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for this decision, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. On 22 May 1998, the House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly decided to grant a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to HEP from Zagreb to HE Zakučac in a total quantity of 220 cubic metres per second for a period of 33 years, counting from today on the conclusion of a concession agreement. The power of the HE plant is 486 megawatts. In accordance with its decision, the Croatian National Assembly of Representatives, the then state water administration, concluded on 18 March 1999 with the Croatian Electricity concession contract for the use of water power for the production of electricity for the Zakučac hydropower plant with the term of the concession until 18.3.2032 on 19.92016. HEP Production d.o.o. on behalf of the concessionaires, Zagreb requested an amendment to the pre-mentioned concession contract in a way to increase the installed flow of water in the Zakučac hydropower plant, while the existing 220 cubic metres per second, to 240 cubic metres per second, i.e. installing power from the existing 486 megawatts to 576 megawatts. The reason for increasing the flow of water installed power is the reconstruction of the Zakučac hydropower plant, the replacement of up-to-date primary equipment such as turbines, generators and transformers, with that improved technical characteristics, and all within the existing construction coverage of unchanged gauges for which the concessionary was established by the building permit. As indicated, the flow of water installed power at the Zakučac hydropower plant was prescribed by the decision of the representative home of the Croatian National Assembly, the then Croatian National Assembly. Therefore, a proposal for a decision to amend the concession decision has been made for the use of water power for the production of electricity to Croatia, in the Zakučac hydropower plant, which increases the installed water supply, i.e. installed power. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 175. The law on water, the decision to grant concessions is made by the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of the decision made to amend the concession decision, the Ministry of Environment and Energy will conclude on behalf of the Republic of Croatia an additional 1 concession agreement with the concessionary. Due to the increase in flow and power at the Zakučac hydropower plant, an increase in the annual concession fee for 164906 kuna was found, so that the total annual concession fee will be 1 million 706 thousand and 134 kuna. It also established the obligation to pay the difference in one-off payment for a concession of 824 thousand and 531 kuna. The concession fee is the state budget. Following the said Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament, to make a decision, to amend the decision to grant concessions for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian electricity industry from Zagreb at the Zakučac hydropower plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70895	I would like to thank the esteemed Secretary of State. We have one replica, dear colleague Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70896	Thank you, Vice President, so here, carefully listening to all this data, the numbers that encourage me, I haven't had a chance to hear, perhaps accidentally or intentionally, given that we are getting, away, or about 10% higher water flow, since we are increasing the installed power, in which way these characteristics affect the environment within which the procedure is taking place. And whether the activity in the hydropower plant Zakučac is in question in line with the environmental permits to be issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70897	I thank my colleagues Horvato. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go. OK, Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70898	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, as we have heard from the Secretary of State Mr. Šiljeg, are today at the debate on the subject, so the proposal for a decision to amend the concession decision for the use of water power for the production of electricity is specifically related to Hidroelectrica Zakučac. And as we heard from the beginning, so the Croatian state since '90. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Here we have an expansion of the increased, installed flow of water, with 220, 240 meters cubic, i.e. a corresponding increase in installed power, which will logically lead to an increase in concession revenues for the state budget. Before Mr. Secretary can get ready before I go to my hearing, I'd just like to ask a few questions. I've been monitoring the strategy for my time, so the impact of climate change, which the ministry has been preparing, I believe you know what this is all about, so I'm curious about a few things. So whether the impact of increasing this capacity on the Cetina River is considered, means that this increase will affect the Cetina River with these aspects. The second thing, which is today's capacity of the river Cetina, i.e., I'm talking about the accumulations and streams, and what does this have to do with this strategy that I mentioned, the strategy, the prevention of climate change, that is, adaptation, the truth. And the third question, to what extent does this proposal mean to increase the installed flow, took into account that strategy, in all segments. So whatever you can contribute to this debate would be extremely valuable. As for Croatian energy and documents that belong, I will repeat what I have said several times, the situation is far from good, the situation is I would say even tragically. So here, by preparing for this debate, in the National Journal, I found only two strategic documents, so in 2002 a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 2009-2020, so this is still a current strategy, a current document, a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia. It's not development anymore, it's development. However, the documents, like those before, did not prove to be very useful, nor was much done by them. Here, for example, in Chapter 6, 3, 4 of the current energy strategy in which we live, we stand like this, the nuclear energy programme and then under that head stands the Republic of Croatia's nuclear energy programme. It is further stated that the nuclear option cannot be excluded from the future energy structure, it is said that the preparatory activities needed to decide on the construction of the nuclear power plant cannot be delayed. And it is said that lost time may not be possible to compensate and the right strategy does not narrow down future development opportunities. The same is said that the public debate supported the nuclear option that I'm not sure about, I followed it at the time when I was 19 years old. And lastly, the decision to build a nuclear power plant is expected at the latest in 2012. In 2012, some 5, 6 years ago, a decision was to be taken to build a nuclear power plant, according to the strategic document we made. So the government with the Parliament has set goals, we want it, that, that, has brought the document, millions of kunas are probably spent, thousands and thousands of hours to make such a document, to think about in the Croatian state what we want from energy, which are our goals, that in the end only a few months after the adoption of it all was thrown into the trash. Here's another example, it's not the only failure because we know that it didn't even go through nuclear energy at all, and I'm not going to argue here right now because I don't have time for whether it's a good option or a bad option, but that was the goal. And he's written in the document. And the deadlines were written, and there was nothing of them. Money was dropped, work was dropped. In addition, according to this document, the strategy, the government has reached a conclusion on establishing the priorities of the construction of the electricity buildings that I have here. The document is the same from that time, signed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In the first sentence, i.e. the second explanation, it was just called for on 16 October 2009 when the Croatian Parliament adopted a new energy development strategy 2009 through 2020. And in this conclusion, the government is determined that the following energy facilities, or buildings, will be of priority to the Republic of Croatia. These are the order Te Sisak C, TE Plomin 3, HE on the river Savi, Podsused, Prečko, Zagreb-Drenje, i.e. Zagreb on the Sava as popular as it is called, HE Ombla, HE Kosinj, HE Molve 1 and 2, just that. This was listed as energy facilities of priority. Now let's see what it's made of. From Plomin 3, we know what situation it is, Zagreb on Savi, do you see any power plants, anything to do, no. And in 2020, it's very close. Since Omble gave up, Kosinj begins in 2019, Molve 1 and 2, it is an interesting case. By means of the ESPO Convention, since Drava is a border river, and Hungary has an impact on these projects, the project Novo Virje has already been planned, however, Hungary has decided to block it, give up that story and so HEP threw 30m euros worth of money invested in the documentation, designing the facility and working hours, so they were dumped because of the Novo Virje plant there was nothing. And then the story was slightly reduced by Molve 1 and 2 where Hungary can block us again, we are still going that way because that's probably part of our strategy, but as it is known to be Mura-Drava-Dunav Regional Park, UNESCO's cross-border reserve, and it is questionable whether any of it will ever be. To sum up, in the strategic documents that we brought in or immediately trampled everything we wrote, from what we wrote, we almost did nothing and what we did, fat, fat, late. So I asked all these questions about your boss, Mr. Tomislav Ćorić, when he came to the Environment Protection Committee whose member I was asking for confidence to become a minister along with Mr. Plenkovic, that what he thought about this energy strategy and its failures, Mr. Ćoric did not speak much, he justified himself that he had been brought into crisis just in time, so it changed plans a little bit, but as soon a new energy strategy will be adopted. I really hope, I'm not delirious, I really hope that in this country there will be documents that will make sense, money that will be invested in them that will not be thrown away, that working hours will not be thrown away, and that citizens will really have something because of these papers that I've listed here is God's preserve. The sooner we need an excessive document that's expendable, the easier this is. However, the world of course did not wait for us, why would it wait for us, the world went further, so I must say that in 2013 there was a turning point at the world level. That year, 141 gigawatts of new energy sources were opened, hence new installed forces in conventional non-renewable sources and 143 gigawatts in renewable energy sources. So, there was a turning point that year, for the first time, more new energy sources were opened in renewable sources than in non-renewable sources, and this trend continued to increase, so according to the International Energy Agency in 2016, as many as 2/3 of all new sources were in renewable energy sources. With us, such projects are still in place, in time when the government of Mr. Milanovic took over, Mr. Cacic was a major lobbyist of coal and such individual structures which further slowed down the development of renewable energy sources in Croatia and disappointed most of the public who called for the famous Plan 21 expected some changes in relation to the nuclear power plant and such things announced by the previous HDZ government, and we did not experience it. And so as the world moves forward, it is worth mentioning an example of a small country in Central America, close to us on the surface, close to the population of Costa Rica, even one Croat, Francisco Orlic, in '42. In the year, otherwise, a man of Krk origin became President of Costa Rica. Costa Rica recently celebrated last year, so 300 days out of 365 days they received electricity from renewable energy sources. In 2016, 98% of the electricity produced was from renewable energy sources, 2014. 99% of all currents are generated from renewable energy sources, mostly hydroelectric power plants. Of course, Croatia is not Costa Rica nor can it be, Costa Rica has such a geographical position as it has, it has tropical rains that further power or increase hydro potential. However, Croatia has its special features which in some segments especially in solar capacity, the wind, was still barely scratched. Otherwise, it is still considered dams, large renewable power plants although there are some thinking that only small hydropower plants would be renewable and large as having too much impact on the environment, so they should not be renewable or non-renewable or something between them, however, we still consider all the hydro potentials or their exploitation of renewable energy sources. Croatia is far from these trends, we have lost time to which the strategy itself is being called, so the world has gone forward, it is clear, it is clear that renewable sources are the future, to which extent we will be able to replace fossil fuels we will see it yet, but the trend is clear, Croatia does not follow that moment at all or does not follow it enough. One very interesting thing about renewable energy sources, for example the city of Zagreb, 640 km square, if we were to take all these surfaces, we would take for example this most famous case of solar panels, solar grids, if all of these surfaces were to be paved, using energy from them, is questionable to what extent the city of Zagreb could be covered from such sources. Why? Because the city of Zagreb is densely populated, you have a large energy consumption on a small surface. On the other hand, where we have a little energy consumption, a lot of space? Right in the rural areas. Renewable energy sources, renewable future needs space. Nuclear energy or thermal power is high density. You in a small space maybe just a few acres as much as these plants can get a lot of energy. But in the case of renewable sources, it's not like that, it's low density energy. You need big surfaces, big spaces to get some bigger amount of energy. So exactly the rural areas here have their chance, let's give people and decentralisation energy production because the future is where everyone will be a consumer and everyone will be a producer. The big power plants, the centralized systems, it's slowly going into the past and the trend's gone, and I've already set out which way the world's going. So this is exactly the opportunity for development and rural Croatia, it should allow people to stay in their own space, in their own backyard, in their backyard, to be producers of electricity, to join the network, and that will be one of the reasons why they will stay there because the situation in which we are now knows what is the situation, especially in Slavonia, Banovina, Kordun, the Dalmatian Zagora, people are going away, they have no real reason to live and there are no empty spaces left. The future just needs space and more importantly, it needs people in that space, so I urge you to make changes to the legal and strategic as soon as possible, not only in the energy strategy, but also in the strategy of preserving or adapting to climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70899	I thank Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70900	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's very interesting to listen to some of these discussions today, especially when we discuss the same topics, people that we are in formal education about the same profession. However, there are no political options in our Croatian Parliament that take a concrete stand. So, it's easy to be against but when you don't have your own attitude and you don't know if you're up for, then these are thematic debates and this is one of them, deplaced, causing controversy and shame that there are no colleagues here today, we'd be sure again, we'd take a turn at the issue and the issue of Agrokor and some of the prominent figures from our history who have not or had the opportunity to take advantage of that opportunity to make certain decisions. I will once again ask the Secretary of State whether the debate is under way or in its final address, apostrophe and put an emphasis on the question that has been asked by his colleague Sincic earlier, which are the ecological aspects of increasing the flow and increasing installed power at HE Zakučac, which for me is one of the rarest, good attempts to subject and existing locations of the energy type that are today in the spatial plans of the Republic of Croatia more adequate and technologically better use. I haven't heard from my colleague Sincic in today's debate whether it's his political option for a nuke or against a nuke. It would be nice to hear the attitude of the Living Wall, and after that, we could also make adequate decisions in a thematic debate. Secondly, what have I not heard at this moment, and in the presentation it seemed very superficial and does not judge the table of an engineer, why do some countries have a perspective and the possibility of implementing and introducing renewable production facilities into the system and some countries do not? Because when you compare the RH that today has a total installed capacity at a level of four thousand megawatts, it has a summer, and now almost a winter speck somewhere at a level of 2800 megawatts then it is very interesting to listen to the problem and debates that go to thousands, thousands of kilowatts or megawatts installed power into the space of the RH in the network, should be included in the domain of production from renewable sources. So the Department of Energy at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing teaches you something that is relatively percentage-related to basic energy production and colleagues who hand over these items to some production facilities still call alternative, therefore not fundamental but alternative. And then in this one energy mix you get the situation that, with a certain percentage of basic energy production, you can introduce and effectively regulate a certain number or a certain contingent of unstable alternative sources. Listening to the story of Costa Rica only once said that Costa Rica replaced 98% of its production from hydropower plants and I would be happy and satisfied that in such a way the hydropotential can and wants to take advantage of the Republic of Croatia. Let's not forget, so almost a long time ago, the Drava River began to be used as an energy potential, starting with Dravorad in that former state and the last hydropower plant that was built and launched in '87. She was HE Dubrava for years. After '87. In the year, the Republic of Croatia has dared and created only Lesje one energy potential of 43 MW and it is the only energy undertaking that we have since '91. by 2018 we can now call it in the segment of alternative or renewable or in the segment of basic energy production, but the production facility we dared to start completing and putting into operation. In 2009, HEP management decided to revitalise HE Zakučac, the largest hydropower plant in the area of the Republic of Croatia, so in the segment of the production area of the HE South Basin and here by increasing the water flow by only 20 cubic metres per second we managed to get a new installed power of approximately 90 MW. With this methodology, if we started to revitalise all existing production facilities, we would certainly raise the installed power by 20%, and hence production in the Republic of Croatia from the contingent production facilities of hydropotentials, regardless of the criteria of the European Commission, we can, and we do not have to call renewable energy or renewable production. I am pleased to hear that someone else does not mention that here we are now in 2002, so energy strategic documents exist, energy strategic documents are in line with spatial planning documentation, and the only thing we miss after 2009 is the implementation programme that would be needed for the Croatian public, and also for those who should be tasked by the Croatian Parliament through the Croatian Government to build production capacities, so in what time frame and how much financial envelope is needed to build and drive such projects. This is how HE Zakučac remains the only insulated bright example of something where, using new technologies, the reconstruction of the turbine system of generators and energy transformers, the existing installed power rises by almost 100 MW, 90 MW, and that only means that the two Lesces were built only by the reconstruction of an existing facility. I will not convince what the secretary of state said in his presentation, so all this was done under all the regulations of Croatian legislation, concessions were signed, concessions were made by HEP and today they were paid into the state budget. And what needs to be noted, not realizing today whether the methodology of calculation is good or perhaps needed to be completed, but of all these production facilities therefore of all hydropower plants today depending on the area of which the local environment or community is this production facility comes in favor and local self-government. However, what I want to warn and inform the Croatian public at the end of this presentation, as well as colleagues who may not be engaged in energy for the last ten years, but in their formal training, point out that energyists are especially those who, as economists, are giving their court to a segment of energy because today everyone is dealing with energy, they understand energy in everyone today, it would be very interesting to be or listen to engineers if we were going to operate or if we were going to move in any way in any other way. So here I am from a renowned auditory house that has been working on a proposal to restructure the Croatian electricity industry with which I dare say I am not overly happy and satisfied, but here is an interesting graph showing the production price of existing Croatian production facilities without included depreciation. So, the Water Power Plant, it was amortized a long time ago. All our hydropower plants, except Lesca, have long been amortized. And now I'm going to read you one piece of information that you're sure to think is from a fairy tale. So, a thermal power plant in Sisak, to produce a megawatt hour of electricity, needs to spend 500 euros. The Sisak thermal power plant, in order to produce a megawatt hour of electricity, needs to spend 500 euros. Somewhere in the middle of the Plomin 2 thermal power plant and Plomin 1 is close to producing a megawatt hour of electricity, 40 euros should be spent. So, at 500, we moved to an area of 40 euros. Before we started to restructure, i.e. reconstruct the Hydropower plant Zakučac. The production of megawatt hours of electricity, in that hydropower plant, was 5 euros. If I'm lying, I'm also lying to PVC whose official data is this, a study that HEP paid 8 million kuna. The study was made, delivered and this is this segment where the found state is analysed. And now that you're all together with me and the Croatian public, you're asking, what kind of Croatian energy mix should it be to produce competitive electricity, at cost and by quality, if we're aware that our imports are at a level of 55 or 58 euros, then this graph clearly tells you what Croatia should do. And if we want quality and at the cost of competitive electricity. And for the category of Croatian households or households and for the category of Croatian entrepreneurs. And the thing that I keep mentioning, and the thing that I resent to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, is that this component, a component of production that is clean and exclusively market activity, including supply, which also ruled out market activity, cannot function in the area of the Republic of Croatia, with a minus, and the balance sheet is ironing or harmonising with the price of regulated services, the price of the magazine, and then transfer regulated activity to the market, and the whole time they have the impression that those who deal in regulated activities are doing very well, and those who have only the market activity are creating losses. On the other hand, therefore, with a note, whether we can or whether we want 10 or 100 thousand small solar power plants in Croatia. Croatian legislation enables investment on the roof of the household on every house with a built-in permit. And you don't need to ask anyone, you need to invest. Now, every resident of ours, our fellow citizen, we have to convince him that on the roof adequate consumption, so we don't need him on the roof of the power plant, which we're going to produce for market needs, but on the roof we need a power plant to meet our own needs. And it's very simple and easy to calculate. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must then make every household in the Republic of Croatia single out its budget for 10 kilowatts of installed power, 130,000 kuna. For 10 kilowatts of installed power for which you need about 70 square feet of roof, you need about 100 to 130 thousand kuna. Some have tried, and some have managed to cover their costs at the moment these targets were developmental, diversifying. However, today when we do not have a premium system, when we are still not sure whether or not we want to produce it, or to invest and sell the price to someone, at an average production price of between 30 or 35 June today, you cannot return the investment in 8 or 10 years or 12 years. E in such a way to communicate with the Croatian public, the desire to introduce 98% of renewable production into the contingent or in the Croatian mix, and make your HEP colleagues create such a regulatory system, which will keep this renewables contingent stable and keep the system under control. I believe you, I first, as an entrepreneur, will not agree to this, because I want the same conditions as Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks and Poles, a stable system, the safety of equipment and a competitive price that my or our product would be on that common market as competitive. Given everything here, the HDZ Club will support this decision. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70901	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague, Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70902	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You've said a lot, and I can't replicate it at all, because time makes it impossible for me, and I don't want to go into any wider discussion. At first, you said that part about Costa Rica, 98% comes from hydropotentials, not from renewable sources, within which the hydropotential is 80%. There are other sources, renewables, such as bio mass or wind. The second thing is to be honest again, that from the total energy consumption in Costa Rica, everything is renewable, because of course there is always oil and gas used in transport. So in global, the country isn't renewable, and I didn't say that. As for some other things, to say that the documents strategically exist for development. After I had as much as I could in time elaborated, that of all the points, barely anything was done, that we lost 10 years was actually scandalous. You mock the Croatian public, the documents exist, but in fact, six months after they voted, they became useless and we gave up capital things. As for nuclear energy and nuclear technology, the Living Wall is not an aprior against non-nuclear energy, it would be fundamentalism or nuclear technology. Our view is that to the greatest extent possible, it should go through renewable energy sources, but ultimately, the profession will always say what reality, oil still is our reality, it doesn't have to be liked either by me or by you, but it's instantaneous. In 20, 30 years, it's gonna be different, and we have to go some new ways, which we're supposed to determine by the documents, we didn't do. In the end, you mentioned, as one of the 10 topics that you mentioned, therefore, the need of 130 thousand kuna, that I was going to say the same, it takes 100,000 kunas to make the house renewable. And in the Croatian state, you cannot have an average household without credit, and such things are very difficult to get support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70903	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70904	Well, on the one hand, I have to admit that you have improved a little bit now in this replica, but I am glad to hear that someone advocates the story that they want to build in the Republic of Croatia arbitrary facilities of basic energy production, regardless of whether they have paid off in time to amortize or after depreciation, because Croatia has in its spatial plans plotted and confirmed localities and existing energy projects that are ready for enlargement, but also a few new sites, which at this point can be very useful to build new production facilities. So, I'll agree with you about the story of Costa Rica. So when someone builds accumulatory and regulation hydropower plants and replaces and synchronizes the work of battery and regulation, they do something smart. I suggest you give full support to construction and regulation but also to the most accumulational ones, because they are no longer a trend today. Trends are flow power plants. And on the river Drava, which we contaminated from Dravo city to Donja Dubrava, also on the Sava River, in which there are four projects to build new hydropower plants, which are multi-functional projects. So, the territorial thing is to solve the energy issue of the hydropower plant on the Sava River. The priority story is the protection of the environment and the defence against the flood, after which, not by new regulation, prevents the flow of drinking water to the city of Zagreb, and afterwards these 150 megawatts of installed power will revive the flow of the Croatian energy system but not dominantly, as would be done by a new blog of the thermal power plant in Plomin or any building, based energy production, which then adequately tones, all of these hydropower plants that we are talking about, can be flow, regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70905	Thank you. The second one's up, dear colleague Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70906	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Horvat, here on behalf of the HSS Club, the HSS will support this proposal of the Law on the modification of the concession of Hidroelectrica Zakusac, but I have one other question, several years ago in the area of Koprivnica Cruise County was the actual construction of the Novo Virje hydropower plant, the strength of about 200 megawatts and I am clearly glad that this project failed, because it would greatly disrupt the ecological system of that part of Podravina. But at the same time, here, these days, we're talking about the construction of three smaller hydropower plants that would be flowing on the Drava River, so here, I think about the construction, means these three smaller hydropower plants that I'm saying, streaming on the Drava River, how much information I have from my fellow commanders, that they've been on some talks and most of them to support, but your opinion about building those three less. Although I'm saying, I've always been against this construction of a megalomanic hydropower plant that was about 200 megawatts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70907	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70908	Well, here's a strategic document that my colleague Sincic also spoke of in 2009 that excluded in general from the intention of building any large building of the accumulation type, the flood of forests and territories, the cross-border influence, which would then either be derivated or I was moving into the territory of the Republic of Hungary, under the fall under the so-called so-called ". Espo Convention measuring cross-border impact, etc. The larger strategies of 2009 turned the large accumulation of the New Source, into 2 and 3 retentions, which would occur somewhere between Lower Miholjc and Osijek, so Molve 1 and Molve 2 should be built as streaming hydropower plants, or if we are to use the Austrian dictionary of such power plants as I had the opportunity to see there, then they are so called. submarines. So the turbine system descends into the riverbed and flow, whether there is water or not, defines the amount of kilowatt produced or megawatt hours. So, it is my personal opinion that such energy projects should be built in the area of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what we have protected one part of the Drava with the UNSECO, stamp, so regional park, Mura Drava, in which and whose decision there is one mark that speaks of the vast economic interest. For me, the hydropower plant is the weight and category of overly economic interest. And if you will ever wonder about the circle of people in which I will have the opportunity to sit, I will always give support to build such a type of power plant, and it is not a nature 2000 of any kind, because the Austrians have a pointistic separation from nature, almost 400 such small hydropower plants in the Alps and all the waterways they use in various ways, including energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70909	Let's go to the third line, dear fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70910	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Horvat is as much like you for hydroelectric power plants, certainly that would be the most environmentally acceptable to us and certainly the most acceptable. However, we have in Dalmatia for solar power plants a large area where we have almost 300 hours of sunshine. I think solar power plants need to be built there and I hope and I don't understand why it's slowing down so much and why it's waiting so long for all these investments. Of course, we talk all the time, we keep promising, and it actually ends up on that thing, so the law comes back up again, and we're gonna talk again, and we're not gonna go into realisation. We know that it's been interesting for us since democracy came to include any associations that don't allow. We had this year actually passed down on the Cetina gas power plant we didn't make, I think that energy and electricity is survival, and we're going to need more and more, whether it's for cooling, whether for heating, whether for tomorrow and the electrics, I think it's a strategy and that we should go into that program, not wait, not wait for a lot if there's technology, have knowledge, and I think that electricity should work faster to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70911	My colleague Horvat's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70912	Here's a short, so why not invest in a small solar segment, I think a large or high factor is the price of technology. When someone today convinces us that the price of solar technology is so low that if anyone could afford it, I'd have it at home, probably all of us here, but those prices aren't still the ones people talk about very casually. On the other hand, in my presentation, I said about not exactly but precisely, we at this point at 4200 MW installed power have a syringe that in certain parts of the day and year reaches almost 2800 or 2900 MW. So comparable to one of the Czechs and Slovakias that have 23000 MW in the segment of the installed power, and their pitch is about 4, so 6 times more installed power than what is the daily pitch. With such countries I would not dare compare, I would not dare compare because having under control and regulate such a system is far, far easier than that in the Republic of Croatia. Long ago someone made a strategic decision and in the space of the former state the entire priority story was building an interconnector, we today all our shortcomings in the electricity consumption segment can be replaced by imports. If the entire production system were to collapse today, we could substitute all necessary electricity for the needs of the Republic of Croatia by importing through the interconnector capacities. Is that our goal? So the technical possibility exists, is that our goal? We are constantly seeking some energy independence, and energy independence will not be achieved by building an interconnector but by building production facilities, whether at this point they were expensive, cheap or obtained from them or not at this time getting a competitive price of electricity produced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70913	Thank you. Let's move on, next debate on behalf of GLAS Club and HSU respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70914	President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to focus my discussion on two topics. One topic is what is on the agenda today, and on the agenda is to amend the decision to grant a concession on the use of water power or for the production of electricity and this increase is from 220 cubic metres per second to 240. How did it come to be? It came about because we have new technology, a new way and absolutely in this sense the GLAS and HSU will support it. However, it would be very good if, with this material that we have received and with the explanation that we have received was a copy of a building permit based on which it was made and a copy of a screening done by the Ministry of Environmental Protection in terms of environmental protection is a key question that is always asked when we talk about the use of water for energy is a biological minimum that should be ensured on the river that it, in terms of the plant and animal world, still has the same situation. I asked the legislator who was then, whether we had it in the file, and since energy and environmental protection are now the same ministry and she said, so on behalf of the proposing, she was a colleague who said we had it. So I believe it in a word, but the point is that we will use more water from the river Cetina to produce electricity. We should have had information, and that's what we should be interested in in this part of it that there is still a biological minimum on the river Cetina is that information that is important when it comes to the use of water to produce electricity. And that's the topic that we have here today and that we're discussing here today. The second topic is the topic of energy. Each country, as well as the Croatian state, should indeed seek to be energy independent. And as counterpart Horvat said in his last replica, energy independence can be in a way that you buy some of the electricity on the market and you have a lease on the market but energy independence is ensured by its own production of electricity. And now the key question is how? The world is changing, life is changing, the state of the environment is changing. Sometimes in these areas, I used to say it there in the middle of the last century was a decision to build a hydropower plant, the villages moved, the lakes submerged, and we as a construction operative, and as an operative who was involved in the production of the plant we absolutely learned how to build dams and even as much as our construction operative built dams around the world. And also, we had respectable companies that were into generator production, because we knew how it did it. Why did we know how he did it? We knew because we had water and we used water as energy. However, one of the last major hydropower plants built in the world was a hydropower plant in China, which is absolutely evidenced, that this hydropower plant in China and its new fashion face changed, not only the micro-climate of the area, but also affected serious climate change. And what we need to know is that the accumulation lakes have changed some space in terms of climate change, but some other plant, animal world has developed. You can see that on the Dravi hydropower plant, the accumulated lake, where once there is a second and plant and animal world, than it was before. I was one of those who took part in the environmental impact assessment of Drava hydropower plants, i.e. the Molve hydropower plant, and then the main problem of that hydropower plant, therefore, was the Repas forest, which because the tree was used to some new conditions and was a major issue by increasing the level of groundwater that would have happened. Otherwise, when it comes to there, around 2000, there were a number of things we used an alternative source and energy. So there were alternative sources and energy, there was biomass, there was waste, there was wind, there were suns, there were changes in tides and axes, which couldn't be used with us, huge waves and everything else. The EU, when speaking about where a certain 20% of renewable energy sources should be provided, was at the beginning of Croatia very low because it did not count on that water. At the moment when the water is at all, it began to count as a renewable energy source, Croatia is often known to say that it is at a minus... things and how bad it is in the EU, when you look at it 27% are there, therefore, there is a percentage rapidly rising, so that at the moment it became water, the renewable energy sources used in Croatia to produce electricity have increased rapidly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the situation was in '50. Last century, 2000, that is, in early 2000 when it is still a different situation today. And we should look into that context. So, what does Croatia have? Croatia has built hydropower plants, what do you do with these hydropower plants? To make them in terms of technology, in terms of production, new equipment, in a way that in the same space with some of the same elements we can get more electricity and that should be the goal and we should insist on that and take care of it. And of course, we should clearly define ourselves, which is what we and in what sense we are developing our own energy potential at all. This cannot be viewed independently of the transmission system. Let's remember the war and remember, of course, the Homeland War, that's what I'm talking about and think of the problem we had. This problem we had, that the transmission systems were according to areas that were under war which were in Croatia, and even more were in other countries' areas, and it was actually a big problem. So in planning, when you're planning a field, photovoltaic cells, that's what we're talking about, you should always take care of the input systems. So that's where you should take care of a series of things. The simplest thing is to make a decision and say we will use it, we will develop wind power plants, and it has proved that all wind power plants are being produced outside of Croatia and that only when it comes to wind power and wind power used and used to concrete the foundations, and now they are also working on installation foundations, so it is not even possible for one man to maintain wind power plants. When it comes to solar plants or photon cells, absolute commitment should be to household subsidies, to set up their own needs on roofs, because that's how we actually reduce pressure, but when it comes to large fields of solar or photovoltaic cells, which you have different. They have the fixed standing, there are those who turn around, you have the pillar, you have the ground, first of all you need to define and say, which is what we opt for, and secondly, that way we should encourage production in Croatia. Because what happened. The first solarium or photovoltaics that came to us came through Germany, but not from the German market, but from the Chinese market. The question is that we encourage... Development, someone else's economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can ask a series of questions with this pay phone and we need to discuss it on this subject. However, I think we should first and fundamentally define a few things. The first thing is that really the state of Croatia needs to insist on energy and independence, to make sure that production, therefore, develops production. Absolutely take care of the transmission systems and improve the transmission systems, because you can build a theoretical power plant somewhere, and then the transmission system is gone, and then you have an even bigger problem than it was at the start. And what we have, we have water. There was one project to build small hydropower plants, but our water streams, which have this potential, and these waterways that have that potential are in the back of the coast, so this is the Krka River, this is the Zrmanja River, which is mainly protected from nature protection. However, even where there is an aspect of nature protection in either Slovenia or example, you always take neighbouring countries in Slovenia and there are small hydropower plants in Austria. So it is doubtless that at this point the water is defined and we treat it as a renewable source, or a restored energy source for electricity production. We certainly have hydroelectric power plants, and it is clear that they need to be reconstructed with new technology and a new way, it is clear that in this direction we should develop what is our potential, but parallel to what is extremely important to develop and the industry that will produce this. Because the worst thing that we've ever had is that we shouldn't repeat that experience for the second time, and that's to make up our mind, and that's what makes someone else so that we encourage the development of industry in some other countries. In the context of the EU, it is not very popular to say this, but in the context of Croatian interests, I think we should encourage the development of individual industries. We will support this conclusion, I believe, and since it is about the same ministry all sorts of doubts about the biological minimum and remains resolved and I absolutely doubt that any administration would go before the Parliament with this, and that with the other administration it did not, in that sense, consult or in that sense clearly define what it was about. And energy is really something that's extremely important. When you're a little interested in how investors experience us whether they come from outside or whether they're investors from Croatia then they say there are three things that are always problematic to them. The first thing is an unstable tax policy they are not sure about from the beginning to the end of the investment that it will be the same. Another thing is that working legislation is not liberal enough and a third thing that says that energy, therefore energy is very variable prices so that I can't base my investment on it, I'm talking about long-term investment is energy changing prices, but the problem of energy instability is also whether we're talking about electricity or we're talking about gas or something else. Therefore, this debate would lead me in a sense that it would be very good, so my 2009 Energy Strategy is backed up by documents of spatial order, but things change very quickly. We live in a world where something worth yesterday isn't worth it, and it won't be worth it tomorrow. Everything we do new and what we use new technologies is clearly and undoubtedly better than existing technologies, so we need to support them, but we need to see well what potential Croatia has and that potential to use. I was also involved in the construction of the first wind power plants I thought I said at the time, so we've got a lot of wind, especially there in the big bits of smoke storms, that can be great. Then they told me no, the wind power plants can only generate energy to a certain wind speed. If the wind speed is too high then there is no production of electricity, equally if the small no electricity production it must be stable, it must be constant. The most days of the year are to be blown by stable winds. So, according to all of this, we need to take a good look and see what the benefits are and what the interests of the state are, what we are developing. I repeat, remember we had a respectable production of turbines about it we knew everything, we had companies that did it, unfortunately they didn't some of them stopped working, but I'm sure the experience that got there somewhere in the gentlemen of decent years stands and it would be good to use it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70915	Thank you, too. The first is a respected colleague, Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70916	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I would refer to two of the topics you mentioned in your discussion. The first topic is of course about climate change, or how climate change will affect energy potential in Croatia. Here at the end of last year was the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy, according to some climate simulations, this area expects more rain. How will this increased rain affect the flow of water through Cetina over the next ten years? It's not just a matter of water, it's also a matter of other renewable sources, general production. What if there's going to be more rain will probably be more and... what if the installation falls on an annual level? How will this affect solar potential? What if there's a sharp woman? Will more trees suffer in winter, so how will it affect the biomass that we can or cannot use? What if there is more wind or less wind or if there is a larger share of storm winds, how will this affect wind potentials? So there are a whole series of questions that we need to get an answer to, and that's the only good thing that would be delayed because now I hope that these lessons from the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy can be incorporated into the energy strategy. If we had brought an energy strategy before then only a climate change adaptation strategy then we probably wouldn't have built it into the same, so it's the only good thing I see here, but it's our tragedy and absurdity again. The second thing, as far as building renewables and houses, you were talking about solar panels, of course, is hundreds of thousands of kunas to build something like that, and we actually need a solar bank, like we need an agrarian bank. If you ask farmers they can neither withdraw funds from funds nor build anything, especially these smallest OPGs that 90% will not be co-financed. There is simply no money for it in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70917	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70918	Thank you very much. That's exactly right, Mr. Sincic. The topic of energy and renewables for electricity production is closely related to climate change. So when certain accumulation lakes were created, they not only changed the microclimate in that area but they affected everything else. So there was a larger number of days with fog, and some others came and developed some other and plant and animal worlds. And it doesn't matter when someone looks on the side, so they say, well, well, it doesn't matter. But there's everything, so everything changes. The absolute energy strategy, i.e. the energy development of Croatia, should also be seen in the context of climate change. So in that part of Croatia is actually as small as we are, we are a small country and in this picture of the global world we cannot change something important, as long as Mr. Trump says in America that there is no climate change and that he will continue to work on coal all his industry. Why is he working on coal? Because he's got it, so he's working on everything he's got. And China when it was working that hydropower plant, that was also documentary films, that was a serious story where they moved a few million inhabitants, which in China is not much. But they changed the absolute space, that space was different. So everything changes, life changes, and we have to act exactly the same way in relation to energy and do it parallelly. In addition, no strategy is included in the stone, so if something changes, so it's going to change and make a new strategy, but what's more important about us, we like to bring strategies, we like to have them. However, action plans or programmes behind that do not really like it because someone should do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70919	Let's go to another replica. Dear fellow Music, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70920	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Taritash, you mentioned photon of the voltage cell. That I agree with you completely that you should go in that direction. Why? Because we have a lot of sunny days, but not just houses. I didn't mean when I said it was the house. I don't know if you've been walking around Germany and you've seen that big acres of land are stacked with photovoltaic cells. And we have far more sun than the Germans, the Austrians, I don't even know the Swiss or the French, but they have a lot, a lot more. I personally think that even our companies that we now have in Croatia if a strategic plan was made, they could produce it and make photo voltage cells and give them that job and even eventually develop it. Elektra should be investing her profits in these things right now, certainly not to mention the water energy we've already made. I don't know what we got from Gerdap, from Krškog we co-financed, we don't know, and we're importing 50% of the energy from the outside. I think our power distributions should be investing in photovoltaic cells right now. Certainly and give to the citizen but to have the interest not to be 30 grand, if I understood correctly until they first installed the passersby, it was all so that this same citizen who would invest 130 thousand kuna for 10 kilowatts could at least make a profit and use his electricity certainly in that sense. And that would be particularly interesting in Dalmatia where we are now the tourist country that we are and I don't think we need to combine here, that we need to move as quickly as possible into realisation but in hectares with photovoltaic voltage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70921	Let's move on. Next debate respected... a pardon, answer to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70922	A fellow muscle, so to speak at all against something or something is difficult. But you need to watch the whole project. So, the Croatian state should first decide to be energy independent, but not in a way that you import the difference but that you produce the difference. Then when you produce, you need to watch what our potentials are. So our potential can be the sun, it can be the wind, it can be the water. Of course, that's why I purposely, it could be mass. And in that sense, we need to define and say these are our potentials and subsidize to develop production of that. That's why I'm deliberately speaking wind power plants, I thought those wind power plants looked good to me, so that's where you're showing consciousness that the Croatian state has decided to protect its environment, wind power products based on wind electricity. If the Netherlands is doing this, I don't know which of the opportunities I think more than half of my wind power plant products have seen no differences why Croatia doesn't. And that seems good to you in an hour. But it always turns into something else. So when you saw that these wind power plants were produced outside, that they were not produced with us, that we had given space and at the beginning we were only Croatia, that is, the domestic operation was concrete, that then there would be an assembly foundation. So that should look at the whole package. The first solarists or photovoltaics because there is why when the Croatian state is defined now that they were Chinese, they came through Germany because, therefore, what makes sense is that you are constantly developing your industry, production, maintenance and everything else. But it should be one whole project, one whole strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70923	Thank you. Let's move on, Club of Representatives of the SDP's esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70924	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear secretary of state. The debate on one minor procedure in the decision to grant the concession back in the 90s and some years turned, i.e. motivated fellow MPs to touch the global energy strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, to remind ourselves that this is in Costa Rica, to see what kind of energy is desirable from the wind of photocells, etc. And I'm going to touch something else entirely, which is that I'm going to say something about the river Cetina canyon and the consequences this decision may have on the canyon of the river Cetina. So, the Cetina canyon from mouth to Radman's mills was still protected as a natural area reserve in 1963, and in 2016, the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly declared the Ceti River Canyon a significant landscape in the Omis and Trilja cities and the Zadvora and Šedanovac municipalities. For this decision, the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly has received the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection since February 2016 and the Ministry of Agriculture since October 2016. Since, in the meantime, since the agreement of the Ministry of Environment and Nature was reached in the area of the ministry, energy has also been introduced, my first question would be eaten when proposing this decision and analysis, has this particular ecological part been taken into account and the consequence of this proposal for a storm? For the inhabitants of the Central Dalmatian islands, the river Cetina is particularly important also because of the fact that we are getting water and, of course, electricity, so it has multiple benefits. The river Cetina first gets electricity, we get water and we still use it as a tourist resource. As a result, every procedure in this regard is very important and is followed with special care. We remember, however, during the occupation of part of Croatian territory, the reduction of electricity in Dalmatia and especially the shameful attempt, fortunately failed the mining of the Peru dam, which could have had a major ecological disaster for that part of Dalmatia. Also, as far as the decision itself is concerned, I believe that for a biological minimum, it would be desirable to even increase the allowed drain of water in order to preserve flora and fauna better in the Canyon of the river Cetina. We are witnessing that during the summer, water levels are reduced through the Cetitina Canyon to perhaps less than the minimum necessary, which threatens the biological diversity of canyons and makes economic activity more difficult in its lower course. This is especially true and let there be a small commercial on rafting, canyoning and cocoa in the lower part of the river Cetina. In view of this, as a representative, I have also proposed that this allowed the release of water of 240 cubic metres per second to allow up to 250 cubic metres in order to immediately increase the water level in the lower river Cetina, especially during the summer months, although there are no consequences for biodiversity to make that part of our tourist offer more attractive, so I would like the proposer to manifest it. And I would also like, if the Secretary of State would like to answer two more questions, so for the proposal for this decision, I have not been able to find any consultation with the interested public, and I do not mean this part of the consultation for obtaining permits, but in terms of the adoption of the rules of the Law on the right to access information. And maybe one of our failures in the Parliament, which is that on the Council's pages, I didn't see any indication of the Environment and Nature Committee on this item of the agenda, so I would like those explanations to be sure of our decision to support this motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70925	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS and HSU, I'm sorry. They messed up my papers a little bit. We now have an individual discussion of the respected representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70926	Thank you. Given that we have heard a lot today about Croatia's energy picture of strategic plans and energy, and we are making a decision that should increase the flow and strength of HE Zakučac, as I come from that area I would like to look right at HE Zakučac. My office or office of the local action group is located just a few hundred meters from that hydropower plant. So the hydropower plant is located at the mouth of the Cetina River near the Zadvora Municipality near Omis and has affected the development of the surrounding area, but also the entire Republic of Croatia. The first idea of building HE in today's place dates back to 1902, and then they were some Belgian engineers and they had project proposals, but the cheaper one was taken and the first stage of construction ended in 1961. According to the strength and production of HE Zakučac is the largest plant on the river Cetina, which is about 69% of total annual production. And it is the largest HE in Croatia and now until this decision it has the power of 486 MW. HE is the one that gives a third of the total hydropower in the Republic of Croatia and 20 years ago, the Parliament, or the Parliament's House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly, gave the first concession to expire in 2032. What is important to stress is that this decision and adoption would increase the HE power to 576 MW and it is all possible to reconstruct HE Zakučac because it has replaced the primary equipment, turbines, generators, energy transformers with equipment that has improved technical characteristics and stands within the existing construction facilities of unchanged gauges and for which the concessionaire was asked the question resulting building permit. It is also convenient to note that the amount of concession by 164 thousand kuna itself will be increased, the total concession will be over a million and 700 thousand kuna and will be paid once for about 800 thousand kuna. But these amounts are not as large as it is important to know that such technology contributes to environmental protection. And what is important is to say that tourist activities are also carried out alongside HE, that water is high quality. I must say, given that both Brela and Baska Voda and Makarska and Podgorica and Gradec and Tucepi are all drinking water that is just passing by the Cetina hydropower plant. Although we can be small and spoiled when we come to Zagreb because no water suits us every hard and somehow difficult to get used to other water that is not from Cetina, so I have to say that life by the hydropower plant and how quality it is, i.e. that I feel that we live a better quality life than in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70927	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a break by three o'clock. I'm sorry, the closing statement, of course. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, dear Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the fact that there were a few questions from respected MPs and MPs so that they did not stay and all the expensive Croatian public did not remain deprived of important answers. So when we look at today's numbers over 4,200 megawatts of installed power more than 50%, more specifically about 52% of electricity production in Croatia comes from hydropower plants. What's the significance of the hydropower plants that we're talking about today, the Zakučac hydropower plant is also saying that over a third of these facilities that were produced in the waste hydropower plants are precisely on this hydro power plant. In her debates, most MPs referred to the environmental aspect of a decision like this before you today. So it is only important to mention once again that the reason for the increase in water flow is the installed power reconstruction, means the replacement of permanent parts and equipment such as turbines, generators and transformers, which, from the very technological aspect, have much better performance and only when we look at it, we pull the parallel between increasing the flow of 20 meters cubic per second and the produced energy production that is significantly higher. So we can say with this economic factor and the environmental factor is definitely more positive. Why do I say it more positive? Because the increase in flow of 20 metres cubic per second refers in a technical sense, first of all, to the rate of draining of water from the accumulation for the purpose of energy production, and thus we have a positive aspect of... i.e. means one of the most negative impacts of hydropower plants on the environment is precisely eutrication in accumulating areas where we have too much and often standing water leading to the reduction of oxygen in the water's oxygen on the one hand and on the other hand the guessing, i.e. the death of such an environmental one. As for the esteemed representative of your findings, I can definitely say that it will have a positive impact on the biological minimum especially when we look at the place of discharge on the Bisca to the mouth of the river Cetina, meaning that increasing this flow will definitely have a positive impact on the biological minimum, especially when it is significant to us, and it is significant in the summer times between 6 and 10 months when and otherwise threatened by the biological minimum of the river Cetina. Two more words mean the finding of a respected representative, Sincic, who referred to the climate change adaptation strategy. So, we can say that Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Environmental Protection, helped to obtain the supercomputer Velebit, which for the first time defined and modified all possible, not possibly but certain climate changes that await us by 2070. Based on this data that we received by modeling on the supercomputer Velebit, we are at the final stage of the meaning of all preparatory actions, the draft adaptation to climate change by 2040, with a view to 2070 and definitely this year is the year which will mark the energy strategic documents of the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection, i.e. We also coordinate the strategy of low-carbon development and energy strategy and the document on which the esteemed representative Willibor Sinčić, a strategy, or strategy for adaptation to climate change was referred. So to conclude once again what is very important and what most MPs refer to with a positive economic aspect, which is an increase in the annual fee of 145 thousand kuna, and a one-time fee of 1.7 million kuna that goes into the state budget, there is an increase in the amount of water to be used by Croatia's waters, it is also increased by more than one million kuna per year. We also have a positive environmental aspect, which is to reduce electrification areas in hydroelectric accumulations as well as a positive impact on biological minimum, especially the biological minimum in the summer months of the river Cetina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70929	Thank you very much. I'm really in the middle of a debate right now, and we'll vote when we get the conditions. And we'll have a break by 3:00 when we get back to the next point we still have. Thank you very much. It's a 13:30 stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70930	Proposal for a decision to amend the concession decision for the use of water power for the production of electricity to the Croatian electricity industry d.d. Zagreb at Hydropower Plant Zakučac. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was filed by Agent Arsen Bauk. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, Honored Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70931	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the amendment is not accepted. Namely, the construction permit in question for the reconstruction of the Zakučac Hydropower plant, as of 28 March 2012, i.e. the main project which forms part of that building permit, has determined that the only possible installation is the flow of 240 cubic metres per second, which corresponds to the technical characteristics of the turbine and the difusors which are part of the reconstruction of the Zakučac hydropower plant itself. Since this flow is limited by a technical and technological solution, this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70932	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70933	Mr. President, I have submitted the amendment to give me the opportunity to warn for two more minutes that, for a biological minimum, it would be desirable to increase the allowed draining of water in order to better preserve flora and fauna in the Cetina Canyon. During the summer, water levels through the Cetina Canyon may be reduced to less than the minimum necessary, thus jeopardizing the biological diversity of canyons and making economic activity more difficult in its lower flow, such as rafting, canoeing and cacaking. Given the reasons for the motion, I am not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70934	Okay. Then we can go to the vote on a proposal for a decision on amendments... You told your colleague you weren't looking. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah, yeah. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to amend the concession decision for the use of water power for the production of electricity to Croatian electricity companies d.d. [[I'm sorry, I heard wrong.]] Zagreb at the Zakučac hydropower plant. Please, let's vote. I find that that decision was taken by 122 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70935	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We continue with the session on - Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on national infrastructure of spatial data, first reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Željko Uhlir, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70936	Honorable MPs and MPs, the chairman. The establishment and development of the national spatial data infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia are governed by the Law on the National Spatial Data Infrastructure, and the purpose of the national spatial data infrastructure is to make spatial data available to the public authority in a simple and understandable manner. In many areas of human activity, spatial data is the basis on which new or additional values are built. The spatial data in a broader sense shall represent all data which may be directly or indirectly linked to the location. Problems related to availability, quality, organisation, availability and sharing of spatial data are common in many areas, as well as in the system of state administration. Addressing these problems requires measures dealing with standardisation, sharing, sharing and using spatial data. The same or similar spatial data are often collected and maintained at several different addresses in the state administration system, preventing their transparent use with a direct negative impact on national budgets. Similarly, similar problems are addressed by the establishment of national spatial data infrastructures. In order to respond to the above challenges and to speed up development in the field of spatial data, the European Parliament Directive 2007 on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community has been adopted. The Directive applies to spatial data owned by public authorities and provides for which spatial data themes, when and how they should be available, not by seeking new data, but by dealing exclusively with existing data. In order to adapt to the provisions of the Directive, and in accordance with the European Commission's notes, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the current law. The main issues of compliance with the Directive which are regulated by the draft law are definitions of spatial data subjects, more specifically the registers of national infrastructures as a register of subjects and a register of source of spatial data, their content, access to data sources for public authorities whose businesses have an environmental impact, and further develop restrictions on access to spatial data through network services, which is also made in 6 proposed articles of these amendments and additions. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70937	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Uhlir's State Secretary's presentation, that's Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70938	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir, you have made this brief, but I certainly welcome the adoption of this proposal for a law on national spatial data infrastructure. And the fact is that these spatial data were actually on multiple addresses, they weren't transparent, they weren't connected. And it should also be pointed out that the use of this data so far that has not been possible are the rules for certain damages to different budgets. That's why he must be good at this bill. On the other hand, when you mentioned the directive, and I want to pull one parallel. Not only should we always look at directives, but in our environment we should actually look at the things that happen to us and that we can change as such. It is not only about saving itself, but also about the transparency of these data and their timely use, or expeditionivity in solving the case. So with regard to these national data, the national infrastructure of spatial data should also be considered so that certain data that we have available today at several levels in the Republic of Croatia will only be mentioned by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the court, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the same thing is happening to us. Maybe this is a path and a clue that we should actually solve some other things where we would have more connected data. And now that you have an OIB on the other hand that didn't actually come into life to the extent that we wanted, I think this example is a good example of how we should move on in the public administration system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70939	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take the word of counterparts Maria Jelkovac or Bernarda Topolko? No, I don't. Then we can continue the debate. On behalf of the club, since there is no Mr. Bulj, next is counterpart Branko Bacic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected director of the State Geodesy Administration, Assistant Minister of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Infrastructure of Spatial Data as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in part with the definitions of spatial data and access restrictions by means of network services and is fully transposed into Croatian legislation. What I would like to point out at the outset is that DGU, therefore, as a national contact point for national spatial data infrastructures in the implementation of the directive in the Republic of Croatia, manages the registers of spatial data infrastructures and prescribes the way in which the entire process of registering the very infrastructure of spatial data. What I would only add to Mr. Secretary of State's presentation, Mr. Secretary of State said it was established by the Law on National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, which was passed in 2013. However, there is a small difference in the way in which it was established in 2007 when in the Law on geodetic measurement of real estate, one particular vote referred to this record, and was done parallelly at European Union level with the adoption of a directive, so on. ... a directive that practically prescribes how to establish the very infrastructure of spatial data. What is important here is to say that in this record, which is kept at the national contact point, which is the State Geodetic Authority, it is about data that are either in one way or in one way or rather directly or indirectly linked to the location. So there are a number of problems that we are facing in society where it is important to analyse, carry out in any way operations with data related to locations it is good to establish at country level a one-stop shop containing all possible data that are defined by this record What is important to say is that a geoportal available to all interested users at this point is established at the State Geodetic Administration and is keeping records of 277 different data, which are in the jurisdiction of 39 institutions. Otherwise, they are also inspired by the directive adopted at European Union level that Member States or, as a rule, of the Member State of the European Union have 34 themes or different topics relating to spatial data. We have also introduced 35 topics in the Republic of Croatia relating to mine suspected areas. So when you click on a geoportal you can find all this data on different topics that define certain data from those cartographic, geodetic data on environmental protection, nature protection, so I'm even saying to the data that define mine suspected areas in space. When I mentioned earlier that for the first time in fact, the national infrastructure of spatial data was introduced into the Croatian system, then I must say that the Council, whose entire system I was in 2007 included, was, however, not as comprehensive as it was adopted in 2013, when the law itself was passed by law which then put the whole head of law prescribed by the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real Estates was put out of force. So what I might be able to say is that a number of state bodies in the reporting of the Croatian Parliament on the state of the environment, on the state of nature, are data collected at the level of many state bodies and institutions and agencies, and it is good that these data, in parallel with the delivery of the Government, are also delivered to the State Geodetic Authority as a national contact point which would then be all that data and are numerous, huge data collected over the years in a number of state institutions being recorded and recorded in this spatial data infrastructure. I say after the space data infrastructure itself has been established, it is possible for different state bodies but also for citizens to observe, monitor, use or use data that are very important either in the planned, in the work of any state body or in any part of the economy. It is therefore to welcome that these amendments to the Law have now fully implemented the inspirations of the directive although perhaps we should have done so four years ago when the directive itself was incorporated into the Croatian legal system. But here we are right now, and we've accepted it. Given the small changes in the law or since we are in full compliance with this law with the European Directive, perhaps we should have followed the urgent procedure immediately? This way, without amendments, we'll accept these amendments to the law, and then we'll discuss them one more time. Thus, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure which goes in the direction that certain directives are implemented in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and which are generally of a technical nature and we do not have any specific observations, or the need to amend them, then it is sufficient for the Rules of Procedure to define that such laws are adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70941	Thank you, colleagues, Bacic. We don't have a replica on his exposure. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Voice and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70942	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Director, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the Law on the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data. In accordance with the inspiration of the Directive and the Law was adopted in 2013. However, he was a pilot of reason, I do not know exactly what he was referring to, but according to the pilot, they obviously decided to make certain changes and additions in order to be clear and unequivocal. The Voice and HSU Club will support these changes and additions. The same way I would agree, today we already had five laws in the debate and I know that the government has made a decision that all the laws go into two readings. I personally think it's good to go in two readings for the simple reason that between the first and second readings there are some things that can be fixed and the rest. Today, however, we still had this set of five laws. We also have this law that really had been suggested to go into emergency procedure, first and second reading, I don't think anyone would mind. Proposed to go into emergency procedure first and second reading. I don't think anyone would mind, but they would actually make it a little easier to work and not have to go twice to the government, twice to the Parliament. However, this points to the fact that this should be considered. This law is extremely important and it shows in the sense that we really have a series of laws that are good, that are correct, that we change according to the changes that are. But now it's a matter of application. I must confess this law to my experience in the following way. We all watch some movies and then you see that there's a transmitter for the GSM network and then you see that all those cell phones know exactly where the cell phone is. And you can detect from that one transmitter where he is and establish a connection. It's about one law. National spatial data infrastructure means contact point is the State Geodetic Authority. In the State Geodetic Authority, you can get information where there is a particular information at the moment you need it, because here is the information that is related to human health, with allergies, with tumors, along with respiratory diseases, of course, that the competent body collects that data, and the contact point warns or has information on where it is. And now we are coming up with a fundamental problem that consists of the following, and that is what is absolutely a characteristic of us, I am not going to enter other EU members whether they are doing the same, but this desire to collect data and then you are collecting data in your backyard, in your agency, in your office, in your municipality, in your municipal company. But you don't want anyone to know that you have that information at all, but let him go to a bit of trouble, so let him do some research. And that's what was the problem and the implementation of this law because you're actually doing research where each data is and then it turns out to be collected by two bodies, to collect three bodies. And we had in this House just as many laws, and then when you ask there, says data collection will especially engage. And then you ask why you're collecting something new that's not already somewhere, which isn't some utility company or something. Then you don't actually get an adequate answer. This law, of course, is not in the House, it calls for no special attention. It's those technical laws that go under the radar. Few people who met or discussed it. They don't cause a debate like the law on archival construction or any other topic where we always enter the last century, so we don't know how long we're going. This is about one good law, a law that is extremely useful, a law that speaks of how important it is to collect all data because we need all that information in the business you do. Before the break today, there was also one point that spoke of increasing the amount of water used by the Zakučac hydropower plant. Let's say the data that needs to be collected and must be collected is for some hydropower plants that have accumulated lakes. How many days have increased that are under the fog after it was before the accumulation lake and behind the accumulation lake. That's where I look at my colleague, Mader, who was talking about the Novo Vira hydropower plant. And there it was when the environmental impact assessment of the basic things were the Repash forest that was located in itself, so in the very procedure that had failed over time. However, the trees adapted, left roots, and came to water. And it was, it was the biggest debate professional how much the Novo Virje hydropower plant would affect the Repas forest, because it was created in the area where the high groundwaters were. However, the plant and animal world adapted to change and the hydropower plant would return to the old ones, but the question is whether returning to the old ones is good. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because what really matters, it's important in planning, it's also important in all the activities that you do have data. And it is important to mention several times that the State Geodetic Authority is the point at which the data is collected, it is important that the board it manages has members from different levels and it is important that it really takes care of itself. And I think that just like everything else should have in life a good PR, so when you're doing something if you have a good PR you hear about it and then you get it important. If you're nice, you're decent, you're doing your job, you're struggling, you're establishing, then you don't get adequate attention. Well, I kind of feel that the State Geodetic Administration should approach all of this in the context of what it does or contact point The State Geodetic Administration may need a little PR-arse access to all of this and point out the importance of data collection that everyone needs and needs everything at some point. And that municipalities and cities are open with their data, that they give information about how much I don't know they spend drinking water, how much discharge has been solved, how much gasification, how much distribution system has been developed. I'm always, of course, talking about those data that are close to me, and that's unequivocal and clear data that are used in spatial planning. But let's just say when you're planning a city, it's extremely important that you know how many newborn children have been born in a particular area, how many young families have settled. Everything important and the importance of data and data collection must not be forgotten. We have to take care of that. And of course everyone collects their data, but somehow that contact is always hard to establish, and that's why I find this one example with one tower and a cell phone, where you actually know where someone with a cell phone is all the time and you can find him. And you know it's actually the law on national spatial data infrastructure. We will support the club GLAS and HSU, and today's pay phone has been used on several occasions, where we estimate that there are really rules that are ready to go by emergency procedure, so first and second reading, and this is one of these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70943	Thank you, colleague Anki Dark Taritash. We have one replica. This is colleague Irena Vuksanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70944	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will agree with my colleague Mrak-Taritash how important this law is and how important this topic is going under the radar, and I will agree with this on the need of the PR regarding geodetic administration and as a united centre. What is important is to say that today there is no functioning of any institution at all, let alone interoperability and security without data. Where it's going well, it needs to go on and on, and these changes are going in that direction. And what's important is to say, and you know it well, we have good geographical coverage about data, but that data needs to be harmonised now. And let's say that the most important problem in the next period will be to you, and to every institution how to connect these data that we collect, how to harmonize them and how to make them network-based because they're now unfortunately barely, I think that about 5% of the institutions are all allowing for the network availability of that data. And that's what you pointed out in your debate that we have a lot of data, but unfortunately they're hidden somewhere under the radar, they're not searchable and they're not online. And then there's this job that's ungrateful because you have something that's not available to you, not only individually, but also to institutions. And the danger of having something, and it wasn't available recently, and there were tsunamis in the world and earthquakes, etc., where interoperability between data and rapid reaction was crucial. So I think we should take care of that too, and I'm sure it'll be run in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70945	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70946	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, indeed, the importance of the data is very important and what I am sure of, and it is very good quality and in a very large extent in certain institutions, institutions, municipal enterprises, municipalities, cities, ministries, they are leading you. But then a key problem arises that you know that they are being guided, that you know where they are. And the role of this law on national data infrastructure and the role of the State Geodetic Administration is the contact point that directs you to look here, so he just says there is, everyone has his closet in that closet has a drawer and what's in which drawer, so that's how it's defined. And today when we're all working with smart phones and you don't know anything, then of course you're asking Google right away, which tells you exactly what it is. It would be good and really what I said to my colleagues who work at the State Geodetic Authority and those who need that data in everyday work know where it is and it's not a problem, they feel like everyone knows it. Well, it's not like that. This is what needs to be known that people have no idea that something has gathered somewhere, that somewhere in relation to something they can get information, that when you want to know the number last year how many days there have been with the fog, say on the Zagreb-Karlovac highway, that information exists. But you'll go Google 17 times, and you can get it much simpler. And I'm usually one of the few people who tries to brag, sometimes I do, but I try to praise my colleagues who work in the public administration because I think most of them do a serious and responsible job, and that's all you need if something isn't published, if it's not well packed PR-wski as if it doesn't exist, so in that sense it needs a little advance as in the State Geodetic Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70947	Thank you. We continue on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague, Mladen Madjer, will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70948	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. The HSS Club will support the first reading of the amendment and addition of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. We know that for many years, planners and all those who deal with spatial data have been struggling with incomplete and incorrect bases of spatial affairs. It also came to a good response and to a good suggestion that the law that was passed in 2013 as a pilot project, but it should be a law that can be passed itself it cannot appear to us as high-quality as possible... that the data is easily available, accurate and up-to-date. Of course, the law as such is not enough and will need to work on its application, which means having easy access to the cataster, but unfortunately their data has not been updated for decades, unfortunately and then there are certain problems. These amendments further define spatial data subjects, groups 1, 2 and 3, to more precisely define national spatial data infrastructure registers, as well as the register of original spatial data and their content, access to data sources for public authorities whose businesses have an environmental impact and elaborated restrictions on public access to spatial data. So all of this must be adapted to the European directives and this is clear and we have no objection to the amendment and addition of this law, although there is one remark, and perhaps until the second reading we are asking for an explanation. It is also a matter of paragraph 3 of Article 4 of this Act where there is a restriction on public access to spatial data. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In each case, the public interest to which they serve detection is compared with interests, which serve limitations or conditions and approaches. So what exactly does it mean when you ask for some business information and how the council, it means national spatial data infrastructures decide what interest prevailed yesterday. So just a little clarification about it, and like I said, we're going to support this law, because it's very important, so we don't, so there's no illegal space management. Here, as a concrete example, in Koprivnica Crossing County, where the waste management centre, which has not been introduced into the spatial plan of neither the county nor the local self-government unit, unfortunately, is being brought waste from all over Croatia and is not listed in the spatial plan. So a part of the spatial plan has been introduced, where it says exactly that waste is being brought from that unit of local self-government, from the town of Koprivnica and a couple of units of local self-government, and it is being brought practically from all over Croatia. And not to believe that the head of the county is silent and allows individuals, i.e. the director of the regional centre, Piškornica, to pay a million-dollar dividend, at the expense of all, primarily the resident of Koprivnica Crossing County, while, at the same time, those, just as amazingly in the Kunsko connection with the head of the county. And that's why we're going to support this law in the first reading, with this item being a little clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70949	Thank you. We have one replica, here are my colleagues, Irena Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70950	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague mentioned investment and infrastructure, and I would add that it is an investment in information communication infrastructure, it is an investment, in fact, in the future of the state and public administration. And just now, we have concluded how important it is to connect Croatia's program to this program. And what is important is to say, which is not irrelevant, counterpart Bačić made it nice to stress the importance of the SPIRE Directive in the context of this law and participation, i.e. a large part of this directive that we must implement. In the event that Croatia violates this INSPIRE Directive or that the public body, its or public entity, does not fulfil the damage to the Republic of Croatia by law and the calculation formula is listed in the clarification of the European Commission, we can bear up to 7.2m euros starting from 2019. It is supposed to be in the case of that reference alternative. So this isn't really irrelevant and it's not meaningless. In this context, maintenance development costs should also be considered, given that they vary in some countries and that depends most on the software platform. I, too, have been in favour of open-source software, i.e. open-source software, and that is what the European Commission stands for. And it will be interesting to see that Croatia will continue to behave in this context, i.e. what will be the problem with the licenses, which has already appeared. Whether this will be settled in due time, in which way it will be resolved, how work will be simplified and savings will be created or going in some other direction, and I hope that all the recommendations of the European Commission will be taken into account, because we have been doing so before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70951	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70952	Thank you. I fully agree with you, and I said that the HSS Club will support it because it is very important to this law and to adapt to European directives, clearly because there will be certain sanctions, unless it is adapted. But at the same time, I only warned of one example that happens specifically in our county and of the clarification of this article. Otherwise I agree entirely with this of yours what you said in your comment, in your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70953	Thank you very much, colleague, and that's the end of the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. We have one application in an individual debate, this is colleague Irena Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70954	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, very briefly, as we could conclude from previous statements, and I welcome the promoters, this law is one of those, or amendments to the law, and I will talk about the law and perspective and about the problems that will eventually arise in the future. It is one of those laws, which must be applied to other laws at the beginning, since it is related to several other essential laws, and starting from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to the Law on the Right to Access to Information, to the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate, to the Law on State Information Infrastructure. That's what the Croatian legislative framework is about, and you know it well. And as far as the European legislative framework is concerned, there are four European directives, we have heard what is most important, 8 regulations and one regulation, 4 decisions of the European Commission, and I even think of 7 or 8 technical guidelines of the European Commission. We see that this is quite complex matter and requires a lot of adjustment and coordination. This morning, at one lecture, the academics of the legal profession, Jakša Barbić, said brilliantly that it is as right as the apothecary scale, so where you subtract, it is felt somewhere, or, if you take away the left, it is added to the right and always it must be well synchronised. This is actually an example of this law very well seen. So we are aware that everything is being done, and these changes are also harmonising with European legislative practice must be precisely harmonised and what is most important in practice because adoption itself will not bring us anything if it is unfortunately not enforceable in Croatian practice, and we know well here in the Assembly that this is one of the biggest challenges. And now the question needs to be asked, given that the subject is this law, what is the current situation in practice? And the current situation in practice would say experts, so it's not too bad, it's not too good a golden middle of the European average, but I'm going to focus very briefly on the part that would be worse than the average, and that's the part that's below the EU standard, and that this data's usability through network availability, through network services and technology. We know that every year the so-called state of the so-called. Monitoring reports to the European Commission from our report on Croatia turns out that each of these areas that we have heard in previous exhibitions covered by this data infrastructure are not familiar with atmospheric characteristics, geographical, land, population etc. In a way, one body takes care of that data, and somewhere even more bodies worry. But the only thing we don't have was a geographical region nowhere covered as far as I could see and that's interesting. So there's some kind of gap on the map. We know that this INSPIRE directive must be implemented fully until 2021 as much as we know and see that it will be a great challenge. What's interesting to say is this example of using network services, we have some institutions, say the Croatian Geological Institute has 13 sources of spatial data, and you know how many network services it offers? For zero and not only network browsing services, but zero network download services. So zero for review, zero for download. Unfortunately, it needs to be improved. The state geodetic administration commends as much as 26 sources of spatial data, but unfortunately only for five offers a network service review again and for two network download services. The state hydrometeorological office has seven sources of spatial data, and yet zero to download, zero to view. Croatian forests have only one source of spatial data, and no network service or download, nor the possibility of viewing. Plinacro, Adriatic pipeline, HOP therefore Croatian transmission system operator d.o.o., Croatian road, Croatian HZ Infrastructure, HEP believe or do not have only one source of spatial data registered in that register of spatial data sources, and for this one none of these have any network service or review or download. It doesn't require such a great deal of work, it requires certain organizational skills and someone should deal with it and I believe that in due course they will deal with it. And what would be the conclusion? So space data sources someone does a good job of uniting, but these institutions that need to be united at the same time need to do their own work to provide these services to make them online, not just to deliver them to the center of the central point. And according to the so-called. INSPIRE Directives, therefore, and according to that regulation of the Commission on network services, we, as a state, will have to sort of coordinate all these things in a very, very quickly over a few years to fit the average faster because we see that for the past year this network acquisition and the possibility of network visibility for our institutions has been devastatingly low. And what is ultimately important to say, the problem of course is money and the directive, and according to it, the law does not give a commitment to cost-making, and there is the biggest problem with our institutions because the directive in that preamble 16 says implementation should not create excessive costs for Member States, and that is a very general text. At the same time, Article 7 states that the European Commission will make an analysis of the costs and benefits to be implemented before adoption, so they are a little contradictory. And there's been a problem with our national rules because in many cases, even in the cases of these institutions, it's actually difficult to quantify these projects and investments in that network visibility because these are mostly immaterial benefits for that institution. But certainly, apart from the immaterial benefits for the institution, they are a benefit to the state, so before adopting a policy, before adopting a budget plan for any of this institution or public entity should be taken into account, and there should also be possible penalty payments that Croatia may pay in the light of the failure to comply with these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70955	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70956	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and the chairman. I thank, first of all, everyone who participated in the debate on the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. I would also like to point out once again that it is a matter of harmonisation with the existing directive and the existing law adopted in 2013 is being amended in several points, so the following definitions of spatial data themes are more specifically defined by registers and more detailed access restrictions are being developed. What a colleague from the HSS Club asked for was one clarification related to Article 4 of the amendment and supplementation, I can say that in these amendments and additions, what was actually not so elaborated in the current law, so that his question that he was actually looking for clarification for limitations was contained in the whole of this article only read those items that were in front of the one who was problematic to him. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70957	Thank you to the Secretary of State for further clarification. That's why we're closing the argument. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. This ended all the points that were scheduled for today's agenda, and it continues tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. when the vote follows, and then the final draft of the gas market law. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day! Session adjourned at 15.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-13-0.u70958	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 279. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, 124 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today we will begin work by voting on discussed points and extending before this agenda. Here you go, comrade Grumo.
