ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65799	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I want to talk about the round-up case-law in bank lawsuits for overpaid interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65800	Thank you. The other one's a colleague of Bull's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65801	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club on behalf of the Dalmatinka employee's claim on bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65802	Thank you. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65803	I'm looking for a break on the East River exhibition in Washington, D.C., there's Serbian diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65804	You got it. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65805	Mr. President, the SDP club is looking for a break to say something about the crucial role of estrogen, progesterone and testosterone in Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65806	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65807	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65808	Okay. I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65809	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club to say something about personal disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65810	Okay. That's it, we keep working at 9.50. It's 9:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65811	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We've got more boards, more clubs that called. So let's go in turn, first on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, the Honorable Representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65812	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatian citizens are occupied by the illegal business of so-called Croatian banks owned by foreign banks. But the liberation began. The beginning of that release was in early 2012 when Franka's association filed a collective lawsuit against banks for the so-called so-called "banks". Swiss and illegal interest rates. And the first part of the battle was won on 13 June 2014. where the High Court of Commerce has rightly confirmed that 7 banks have negotiated unfairly and therefore impaired contractual provisions on changes in interest rates. After that, the courts thought little about what to do with the lawsuits, the private lawsuits that were filed against the banks, so we didn't have any significant court practice for the first year, two days after that verdict. However, I am very happy, that today I can say that court practice is surrounded. And I can safely argue that all the debtors who contracted interest rates enter into ways that they change by bank decisions, can sue the bank and get their subscription money. Why can I say that? Because there is a relevant case law. There is already, well over 300 first-degree rulings, which are awarded prepaid money to Croatian debtors in the so-called so-called ". Croatian banks. These judgments apply to all currencies of credit. And Swiss and euro and kuna. So we've recently learned about the possession of 2 first-degree rulings in kuna loans, one verdict is 33,000 kuna plus a tight interest, that's the pulse court. The Split court, 60,000 kuna plus a tightened interest, and one of the convictions most pleased me, is the final ruling of also the pulse court in one euro loan, where it was decided that the bank must repay 184,000 kuna of the fees paid, plus a tightened interest. It's going to be about 280,000 kuna. In addition to the fact that the banks have failed Croatian citizens, consumers, therefore, natural persons, the banks have certainly failed and legal persons. Legal people aren't aware of what banks used to do to them. There are also judgments for legal persons, which are in millions. What did the banks do with legal persons? The banks negotiated interest rates with legal persons in a fair way, so when they were not eligible for the fall of the variable parameter, they would change the interest margin voluntarily. Therefore, in loans to natural persons, they changed the bank's decision on the interest rate in general, above, and in the loans of legal persons, the banks changed the agreed interest margin, which is fixed at a higher level. Because there was a variable parameter falling. Legal statements are millions, these returns. I have to say, that's what happened in other countries. So in the BIH, say Dukat, last year got from Addico Bank a million and two hundred thousand converting marks due to arbitrary withdrawal of interest rates. It's amazing that the system organisation of banks is in the mugging of citizens. It's systematic, it's a felony. I say it's a felony. The DORH has applied against banks and has not yet initiated any anti-bank proceedings due to systematic action, due to the financial occupation of Croatian citizens. This financial occupation, it is harmful for Croatian families, it is harmful for the Croatian state, because the state does not gain GDP as much as it would increase that citizens have better consumption, and it is harmful for those who are criminally, organised, for the banks themselves, because their ratings are falling. So I call from this pay phone one more time, all citizens, and natural persons and legal persons to report to Franak and ask about their loans. And I'm gonna check out some loans that were raised by state-owned companies, see if they're okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65813	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Mosta, an independent list, on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65814	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after 2 months, I received a reply from the Ministry of Finance, against the Rules of Procedure, who was obliged by the Ministry to respond to the parliamentary representative in 30 days. So the delay twice on a very important issue, which is bankruptcy proceedings in this case of the Dalmatian, and thus all bankruptcy proceedings, were recently also workers of Dalmatia wine, designers. Many workers, who have earned their salaries, do not exercise their right, and in the bankruptcy process, that the state in the Dalmatian case, as well as others, so that the state gives up its claims, workers would get their earned hard wages and severances that they earned through their work. However, after 2 months, the ministry sends a response as expected. As expected, they cannot find the possibility to transfer demand to another believer, which is false, any believer in bankruptcy can transfer to another to bankruptcy his claim. In this case, 24.5 million kunas were sold to the Dalmatian woman, 2.5 million were paid by the buyer's bail. In this bankruptcy he demanded another 30 days of happiness because he would come behind, within 16 days it had to be sold, but he asked to pay his amounts, he demanded 60 days of extension due to the resolution of the funds for the purchase of Dalmatia. In this happy, but painful truth that the ministry did not respond within the deadline because it would have sold the Dalmatian without swearing to give up the Croatian state. I'm just going to brief one irrefutable truth and fact. If the Croatian state were looking for bankruptcy, so the Ministry of Finance, Minister Maric, with one nebulous and corrupt response to those workers who earned their salary where 7.3 million kunas were sought in bankruptcy from Dalmatia, water and cleanliness owned by local self-government, Sinj accepted on the proposal and the club of the councillor MOST that he would give up his claims and if the state gave up its claims, for example. Croatia's 3.5 million kuna water, however, has been wanted since 2009, and no Croatian waters have entered the area of Dalmatia. But they will receive their wages, and they will not receive their unearthed wages. So yesterday I sent the same letter to the prime minister to ask the prime minister what he says about this case, about the bankruptcy of the Dalmatian woman, of course it should be connected to these other bankruptcy proceedings like Kamensko where workers do not receive kunas from their claims. It's pain to the sky. Workers have the right to get their salary earned. While we are fighting and agreeing with this pay phone, these workers have no bread for their children, at the same time they forget billions of kunas taken from these same workers. So we can remind ourselves of the Brodosplit affair, what about the INA, the millions, what about the DEAKI affair? The Spice affair? A mountainous affair? What about the Croatian Post Bank affair? The Trucks affair? The HAC affair? An affair of planes? HH affair? The Fimi Media affair? The Hypo affair? An affair of five packagings? HGK affair? What about the coloring of tunnels that grew 11 times from 34 kuna to 220 kuna? What about Croatian highways where 4.25m euros increased to 17m euros? What is it about the Minister of Finance? What does the Minister of Finance say about it, what our government says about it, which is simply the only thing a good structure has done, and it has, is the Ministry of Beauty of Reality, where it boasts exclusively with its good results until these workers can get their rights and the Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Croatia can legally waive their claims in favour of workers. So with Dalmatian, that's how it is with the Designer, that's how it is with all the companies. Once again, I am now aware that the spokeswoman, Mr. Bacic of the Ministry of Beauty of Reality, will try to defuse all this, but this is all a sad fact that we are working against the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65815	Thank you very much. The next Advocacy Club is Independent for Croatia on behalf of which the distinguished representative Željko Glasnović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65816	Dear colleagues, the most fundamental human rights are at stake in Croatia. What rights? The right to equality before courts, the right to private property is not resolved, 5% of the books of land are arranged and again we play plural democracy. Is it a fundamental human right to the truth? Speaking of the truth, here's an exhibition about Jasenovac in the East River in New York, now held. 700,000 victims, once again falsified history, when we realize that another professional Serbian agent is still in Croatia, here in this country that deliberately hides files, making lists of these victims, not only Jasenovac but World War II. When are we gonna be aware of that? We're out looking exclusively through the history of World War II, and we still don't have the official history of that period. There are some people sitting here, doctors of history and science, etc. What's going on here? Is it surprising, in the government of Mr. Josipovic 50% of the people were in the government, there in the cabinet, former UDBA associates, members of the Communist Party and Yugoslavs as Dejan Jovic? What are we surprised at? They are paid, they are professional anti-fascists who are paid to keep Croatia on the debt bench. They got into the media, NGOs, etc. Jasna Babic died, rested her soul, she was impressed by Croatian investigative journalism and was tied to a group of Labrador who destroyed monuments at the Jewish cemetery in the 1990s. Dedicated to Croatian investigative journalism. What can we expect? What about the archives we're looking for from Belgrade? That's what I was talking about, about the conflict, it has to come back, nothing. They are still being deceived by the global public today. Slovenians, they wrote a book, Slovenia in '45. In the year, you have 17,000 there mentioned who killed communists after World War II, almost by name. It's placed on the global market. Where are our victims? Nowhere. The total autism of our professional archivists and professional anti-fascists and we're surprised. The Armenians put a DVD on one weekly, a time magazine a few years ago to explain their tragedy. When they were killed under the Turks, a full shot. Ukrainians,... Every city in Canada has a monument to the victims of communism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Serbs are ahead of us and they formed a war-sacrifice commission after '44. Mr. What are we doing about it? He's got 18,000 names on him. Here, open up, 15 kn cost. Now Roman Lejak entered Serbia and found a list of thousands, thousands of Croats killed in '44. G in Serbia. That's what I'm giving the government here, so they can take a look at this. I wrote the list here, which I am, to the media here, to watch what's going on here. That's what Croatian media is interested in. Here, what does diplomacy inert, Croatia, nothing. Mention of the Jasenovac area, what is now happening in New York, has reached an agreement for you, this Serbian, Ministry of Education, the Holocaust Institute, in Israel on 28.3.2017. What is the answer to the mention of the Arsenovac area, which today falsifies Croatian history and is well paid for. The great Serbian imperialism, when we judge it, is the core of all the evils in these areas. And that's where the heads don't know who attacked them. And that... as a parrot and I'll repeat until I'm six feet underground, that the biggest problem here is the Greater Serbian Imperialism, which is 1912 to '99. He killed hundreds of thousands of people in these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's under... What a five-pointer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And shut up, he's rehabilitated here, he's also rehabilitated this Titoism, which killed hundreds of thousands of people. It opens in Washington next year, at the Commie Victim Museum, where are the Croats? Nowhere. Here, what about Resolution 1.4.8.1. Nothing. For condemning communism. Here, and as we stood here today, to remember the victim of the Holocaust, when we stand for the victims of communists, regimes, hundreds of millions of victims. A failed economy like here, Mr Bull. The economy failed, '90s. It's all gone down here because of Titoism. And the worst, of the destroyed, destroyed minds and brains, is the biggest obstacle of the Croatian state, because the metal heritage of communism, it is the same silence. And finally, what kind of future a country has to pay for is falsifying its history, which can run any kind of international policy. Awesome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65817	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're gonna calm down a little after Mr. Glasnovic's exposure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the introduction, I called for a break to say something about the crucial role, estrogen, spatial and testosterone in Croatian politics. In fact, the day before yesterday, which we didn't respond to yesterday, here at the pay phone, because we were expecting the Minister-in-Office to take over his advisor. The president of one of the ruling coalition's parties and a cultural minister's adviser, is on one of the stands in which he opposed the Prime Minister's desire to ratify the Istanbul Convention, he said, I will read. Women for the first part of the cycle when estrogen is dominant are better moods. In progesterone, they're a little quieter, the few days before menstruation, when they're in PMS, they're caught by a little testosterone, and then I'm not going into the subject, I'm done with the quote. Try your colleagues and colleagues to imagine what a working day in the Ministry of Culture looks like. So, the minister comes in, her advisor Ilcic comes in, he scans her like that, watches her and says, you know, Madam Minister, today is not your day, maybe you don't say anything, don't do anything. I guess that's what it looks like. When the minister did not replace her advisor, when she read, heard or saw what she had said, she primarily exposed herself, exposed herself, exposed it to the criticism that every politician must have, but it is from today on and beyond her problem. When the Prime Minister has not replaced or ordered the minister to replace such an adviser, and he probably did not do so because the one vote HRAST has in the Assembly is very important, so you will suffer. Then it is up to us to criticise both the Prime Minister and, of course, to talk about it and to encourage further fulfillment of the announcement and ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The reason why you don't do it is supposed to be opposing, so-called. Ideology of birth. We've been exposed to this gender ideology lately, but it's not what Ilcic says is gender ideology. Birth ideology is what is said to quote what should actually be, how should it be formulated, that when God created a woman, that besides what a woman, he put into the hands of a vacuum cleaner, a iron and a cook. It's colleagues and colleagues of gender ideology. Which is best summed up in the Family Minister's sentence, so it's married to you. It's gender ideology. And I'm against that kind of gender ideology. Accepting to tolerate violence, agreeing to stereotype gender ideology in society, agreeing to keep quiet about such things makes us irresponsible politicians and doesn't make the country the way we want it to be. That's why we have to talk about this stuff with this introduction. According to these calls by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture, that as Mr Ivicic was replaced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they do so now and from the Ministry of Culture for what he said. And as we have already started with hormones, I hope that soon the Prime Minister and President of the Parliament will establish an adequate level of testosterone to instruct the Istanbul Convention on Ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65819	The next club is the HDZ on behalf of which Ljubica Lukacic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say a few words in this apartment about a law that she said, really, really, for the better, would change our citizens' lives since the beginning of this year. 15.12. this House of the High, has brought amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, which, as I said, has improved the standard for our citizens. First of all, I would like to point out that we have allowed these changes and additions to people with disabilities, who have been employed, who have previously exercised the right to a personal disability, not to buy that disability anymore. So, even when a person with disabilities starts a working relationship, he remains entitled to a personal disability. In this way, we wanted to encourage a greater number of people with disabilities, to be employed, because many who have exercised the right to a personal disability have never thought about any employment relationship. Furthermore, what is extremely important is that the compensation, for the personal disability, and the fee we call an aid and care allowance, from the 1st of April of this year, is increased after 20 years. You heard well, after 20 years. Personal invalidity, will amount to 1500 kn, aid and care allowance 600 kn, in full amount. We are aware that this may not be some revolutionary increase, but the increases that I would say at the moment are thanks to Prime Minister Nadi Murganic and Minister of Finance, Mr Zdravko Marić, who have found ways to increase this fee, and I would say, as an introduction to the Law on Inclusive Supplement. We are aware of the fact that the personal disability, at this point, the exercise of that right, has more inadequacy. Therefore, we are also copyrighted, so someone who receives some kind of compensation from copyright and beyond, will not lose their personal disability, which has happened so far. However, our goal is to disburse all possible censorships. This year we start with the creation of a law, a new Social Care Act involving all persons with disabilities through their associations. We'll find ways, as I said, by understanding, of all the ministers in the government to get a personal disability, to relieve any censorship. Therefore, anyone who has the most difficult kind of disability and has the need to exercise the right to a personal disability will be able to achieve it and retain it independently of any income. As I said, this is our goal, as an introduction to the new Law on Inclusive Supplement, which is very difficult to pass. However, we have promised to bring it to the end of this government's term and I believe it will be a pleasure for all persons with disabilities. By this law that I'm talking about here, we've improved some other rights briefly, for example. It's just that we've extended the right to the status of the guardian, which is extremely important to our citizens. Now this right can also be achieved by marriage mates, which for many years has been impossible, here and we have taken that step and I believe that the new Social Care Act will improve the lives of our citizens even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65821	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65822	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike my colleague Lukačić, I will not talk about the plans of the Ministry of Demography, Social and Youth. But I will say something about the problems that have caused the amendments and the addition of the Social Care Act, and I will commend everything that my colleague Lukacic pointed out and said, that is good, that this should be commended and it is a good step forward. But when we're doing something and we're doing a good step forward, then we can't make inequality within structures. And that's exactly what we do with inequality. Because I'm asking you, what, okay, we've come to a position, that if someone gets paid, they'll get a personal disability. If someone works on an author's fee, they'll take the disability. What if someone works either a lady or a gentleman does and cleans something with a contract on the part, then they won't get a personal disability. Why would he get a disability if there was a pension under two thousand to be exact four hundred fifty-four kunas and forty limes? It's about the lowest pension in 40 years. So the one who has a pension of 2 400 kuna for 15 years of internships, he's going to get, and the one who's 40 years of internship has 2 500, he's not going to get it. It will receive a disability and one who has 1,000 kuna from Croatia and 500 euros from Germany because it is only our pension. So nowhere in the law does pensions come together. Census is something that creates injustices, inequalitys, not to say discrimination against our citizens. So I'm pushing for another approach. We don't have to come up with a big increase but we have to put all our citizens in the same position because retirement is the first income as the first income and as the first income is paid, only in that story is the job contract not the first income. Therefore, all must have the same status, and we have another injustice or other difference, other discrimination. The defenders, regardless of whether they're retired or working, there's no censorship for them. They receive assistance and care for a personal disability in full amounts according to the percentage of disability. So, what you would like, is not for me to respond to the ministry that this is primarily meant to encourage the employment of people with disabilities is not because that law on encouraging employment of persons with disabilities would work for the Ministry of Labour and the pension system because it has the entire arsenal of tools at its disposal to encourage employment of persons with disabilities. And it's not my answer to the ministry that they're going to get rid of it by making a new law. It's a stereotype response I've been listening to in the last 15 years than the ministry's task is when it sees this kind of injustice say okay, we're going to change, we're not going to increase to 1,500, but we're not going to do injustices, we're going to let everyone out of retirement that they can get a personal disability because disability doesn't stop going into retirement and it doesn't stop with the fact that someone has more than 2 454.40 lips. Moreover, the need for a personal disability, for increased costs, in retirement is certainly higher than when a person with disabilities is of younger age, while there are remaining work skills, etc. Therefore, I see no reason to place such censorships that cause new and new injustices or different treatment of categories of citizens, not to say the most difficult word, have discriminatory effects on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I want the minister to react urgently and to give the law by emergency procedure of amending and supplementing these actions so that they do not exist, and I commend all this which in this proposal has been a good amendment and addition of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u65823	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68381	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, the first item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 152. I see your hands in the air, your first colleague, Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68382	Now we can move to the first point of our agenda, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Željko Plazonić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This is because this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, I would just like to highlight a few essential elements of that law. With the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, we will define, first and foremost, the legal basis for the restriction or prohibition of GMOs in operation or throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the latest EU legislation provisions, i.e. The provisions of EU Directive 412/2015 which are first authorised to decide EU Member States on a national basis in the interest of their own people. Then the way to apply to the European Commission for the exemption of works or the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia from possible cultivation of GMOs and with the aim of limiting or prohibiting them. Furthermore, the rights and obligations of the competent central authorities of the state administration, and then a clearer division of competences related to the conduct of official controls in the area of GMOs and finally, infringement provisions in accordance with the description and type of infringements. What was an important difference or addition to the proposal and the final bill is the following. In Article 12, the wording has been newly developed in a way to delete the word ‘binding’, the heading ‘transitional and final provisions’ has been laid down above, and finally, Articles 23 and 24 have been newly developed so that paragraphs 1 and 2 are united in one paragraph in order to avoid unnecessary length of text. Here's so much for the introduction, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68384	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the replicas, allow me to welcome members of ERASMUS student network Zagreb who are our gallery and who will follow a little our work. [[Applause.]] And now we move on to replicas, the first replica is the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68385	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Plazonic, last time I told you, I'll tell you again. I'm sorry that you agreed to be an exponent of the American Servants' Corporation, a profit that works against the interest of your own people, that you brought this law back, criminally into the Croatian Parliament, to destroy this beautiful country, by introducing GMOs to Croatian soil, the air of water. And what's the worst of all people's health. I know you'll say, no, I want to ban GMOs, I grow a small garden, but no, you don't, you're administrative now, by order of the EU, whose bureaucrats are therefore under the supervision of American corporations, you've actually legalized the introduction of GMOs. I am also glad that you came only for the reason why today we can reveal you about your harmful and bad intentions, in front of Croatian history, that people know that their deepest hopes and expectations are played out by those who should care about them the most, which are Croatian institutions and Croatian Government. Tell me for starters, what kind of story is this about the existence of organic and GMO agriculture? Where did you make that up? Where does that exist in the world? It's the same as telling me there's a gleaming darkness or there's firewater. That reminds me of that song, the freezing winter, the heat heavy. What kind of co-existence and in what? How can a bee know how to distinguish the GMO field and the ecological field? Insects, animals, how are they going to tell the difference? With your law? Is that possible? Have you heard of Albert Einstein's statement, not Branimir Bunjca, when we kill all the bees, people will disappear? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68386	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68387	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries with associates, we from HSS and I are personally against the introduction of GMOs into Croatia. This is the position of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this attitude has been expressed by the county, by the decisions of its county parliaments, most of the counties have made a decision, that they want to be GMOs free, whether it is production, transport, transport or otherwise. This law that is before us should be a tool of the Republic of Croatia, to prohibit the production and transport of GMOs in Croatia. Is that really how it is? I understand because I have been dealing with this problem for a long time, that we must have this law, that we must implement the European Directive, but each member has the right, to determine according to what he wants from food production in his country. What we lack is, above all, a strategy for the development of agricultural production. We don't have in the Republic of Croatia, regionalization of agriculture, we don't have defined ecological zones, but what we have is over 400 protected natural areas, different forms. Over 7500 square meters, we have one predisposition for further development of tourism and food production in development... and agriculture and our tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is potentially a danger through this law, and I don't understand why you left it, and we had objections in our first reading, that there is still room at the small door to introduce GMOs in Croatia. Because it's unimaginable that in art. Article 27, you say that modified and reproduced plant material can be introduced into the environment for the purposes of different placing on the market, only on the surfaces that will bring this to the Government regulation, on the proposal of the Central State Authority. What government regulation? Only the Croatian Parliament can pass such a law that is important for agricultural production in Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68388	Thank you very much. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68389	I'm sorry it wasn't very detailed what I read. I would answer primarily to Mr. Bunjec, I here, do not make my own personal law, nor did I create this law, I am here as State Secretary only a representative of that law. So I ask you nicely, in the future, to address this law exclusively, and not to me personally. If you want to talk to me in person, we can do it somewhere else, not here in the assembly. As far as our suspicions are concerned, I would only repeat it once more. Currently, the only possible way for us as a member of the EU, to be a GMO country, is to adopt this EU directive and then, as a conscious member of the EU, not to allow the cultivation of GMOs on our territory, is only to enable us to do so. And if we don't want to respect the EU directives, then it's another pair of sleeves and then we have to act differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68390	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee, Dr. Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68391	Thank you, dear Vice President. Representatives of the proposing and co-legislators. So, the Committee on Health and Social Policy also discussed at its 34th session the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the GMO Act, which was submitted by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 13.12. We discussed it as a parent body, in accordance with Article. 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in his presentation, the motioner's representative pointed out that the text of the final proposal had been completed only in legal and nomotechnical terms, in relation to the draft law, the text of the final proposal. We discussed it in detail at the session when it was first reading. This legislative proposal also complements the current legislative framework for transposition into the national legislation of Council Directive 2015/412 which regulates the area or restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation in the work or whole of the country. A legal person shall also be prescribed the basis for the need to authorise a laboratory for testing, monitoring and monitoring of GMO products consisting of, content or origin of GMOs, official laboratories for GMOs, reference laboratories for GMOs and national reference laboratory for GMOs. Without it, we can't even control the GMO whether it's coming or not. The provisions on jurisdiction in the implementation of administrative, professional and inspection supervision of the implementation of measures to limit or prohibit GMO cultivation in action or in the whole of the national area do not control the management of waste resulting from GMOs shall be revised. In the debate, we accepted this final text of the bill, believing that it is good at regulating the area of treatment with GMOs and that it allows for flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to EU legislation by ensuring timely transposition and application of the EU directive in its field. After the debate was held, we unanimously supported and proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68392	Thank you very much. I will now open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the Honorable Representative Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68393	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the ministry or the promoter headed by the Secretary of State and, of course, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. So, genetically modified organisms, that law is ahead of us, we can turn around a little bit with a review. The 20th century is a period of exceptional development, so we have a number of scientific discoveries, technological achievements, and we can say that the world has changed significantly. It was very difficult to find an area where dramatic changes were not made during that period. However, this enthusiasm for scientific and business-technological achievements has created a fertile ground for the creation of faith in the unlimited possibilities of science, and this specifically refers to Western civilization. The scientific and technological development has brought about the ability to destroy the world above all. We can look at the Nobel discovery of dynamite, the split core, and finally we're in front of GMOs, or phase GMOs. So the ability to destroy the world in which we have to live is a great delusion that is present that makes us capable and creates a new world for a new beginning. So we certainly could have read about how we were going to move here or there. But the ability of destruction does not necessarily mean the ability to create, and therefore we are destined to care for this country in a responsible way and to strive to live as long as possible. Sustainable development is something that could help in that sense. That the world today is far from a harmonious balance, we also see how the wealth of the world is distributed. Eight of the richest worlds own as many as 50% of the poorest population. Well, fantastic. Of course not all can earn the same, but such a huge difference outside is any acceptable framework. What's a GMO? Is this a lifesaving solution to the ever-present hunger in the world, a way to reduce pesticide use or a fantastic biotechnology medicine that will solve all diseases of humanity? That's how it was presented. These were the main messages of powerful biotechnology promoters, as well as the owners of new biotechnology discoveries. But it's actually a technological intervention of the transfer of the genes of one species to the DNA of another without real and complete introduction to the whole touch. What are the risks? What are the overall effects on the touching system? These are the issues of the second order, most often they are not even asked, let alone that they are responsible. Clearly, all of these are first-class products of the biotechnology and chemical industry directly oriented to the market and to a more massive application. It is particularly interesting that GMO is a patent-protected product. So, every living thing, if it's healthy, of course, has a natural trait of reproduction, the seeds contain everything necessary to restart life and grow. It is clear that we have lived for a very long time, a few percent of wheat, corn, any seed is left for a new season free of charge, from nature or creator as you please. What about GMO seeds? Well, it shouldn't be like that, at least not without the patent owner's fee for that fantastic product. So there's a patent to life. It was not possible for a long time until large companies interested in the business exerted great pressure on the rules, regulation of that patent law, and today in all patent offices life is subject to patenting. This, of course, should not be acceptable because the patent owner has the right to monopolies over life form that is not his overall discovery, so his is just manipulation in life. Of course, it is neither convenient nor practical to impose a peasant's obligation to pay on behalf of patent rights for seeds that he has actually grown himself and it would be best to install some necessary technological procedures, interventions so that the farmer is still forced to buy seeds every year. And for that there is a solution, of course, there is a patent Terminator technology, so seeds with built-in suicide trigger, self-toxication of the plant next generation, so with antibiotics, it's a really great solution. What motive can be for such a focus of technological development? It's really clear, just money. So where did those motivations go, those goals, messages from the beginning? They're gone. Reduced chemical use. On the contrary, super herbicides are used, best example glyphosate or patented version... which has seen a huge increase in production and consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know what happened recently about the extension of the EU application permit. The scientific records of harmfulness are not really missing. Whoever wants to, they can find them. There are huge problems in the environment, identified toxicity and development products and observations that exist in this product, however, it is all in vain because there is an anti-campage which is financed significantly stronger i.e. Greater money, science or quasi science financed by pharmaceuticals or by these biotech companies is being refuted, controversial insights are being created, information noise, well-controlled media space and production and application continues and will continue for a long time, we see now, for example, glyphosate to a complete ban. Companies that use time in the meantime, products sell, place, shrink large money will in that time come to a new product that will also patent, also hidden composition and questionable environmental impact. So it's actually a current economic system, firmly-oriented profit, subject to absolute deregulation and free market and very often speculation. How does this affect biodiversity? The eradication of poverty or hunger? Of course, we don't even need to discuss it, extremely negatively. So the world’s wealth is likely to be slightly different over the next few years, perhaps the first 8 will possess as much as 3/4 of poorer mankind. Many EU countries have shown dissatisfaction and that particular compromise, so compromise where Member States are given freedom to ban and face pressure from large companies. We believe that, from the club MOST, independent lists that the potential of Croatia's development is very broad precisely in the area of sustainable agriculture, so agriculture that will generate healthy products, rich taste, so products that are actually very desirable for the world and where the potential for production is extremely high. We definitely think that this law should therefore be strengthened, or we have proposed by amendment bans and imports of GMO products because it is clear that trade, trade chains always find ways for us to have these products of questionable quality, undetermined integrity, i.e. Unconfirmed on human health. After all, aren't all our countys if I'm not mistaken they declared themselves a GMO free zone? So let's make it so. And most importantly, since I believe that the law does not provide any special protection anyway, the most important thing is that our citizens get acquainted with this issue, create an opinion, and that the time of indifference, and some suspension and blind confidence in technology pass. So we need to take a critical look, respect everything that exists from the profession and science, so not only science funded by the companies themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68394	Thank you very much. We have a whole series of replicas on your exhibit. Let's go in order, he's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68395	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Dobrović, you have said there is no ban on imports anywhere in this law, it is very important, GMO food. But there's a likelihood that he'll come into that import seed if he doesn't already exist,... He's not standing still. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that this seed, perhaps already exists in Croatia, should be analysed by all agricultural areas, at which point the seeds will spread regardless of this directive. I don't know if this Croatian Parliament has to listen exclusively to the EU directive so that we can become trade sales of these poor GMO products, unhealthy, we know it's a tomato, it lasts 5 years, it's always the same when they pick it up, so I'm personally interested in your answer. Does the Croatian state have to and does it have an obligation to protect and sell in our area of GMO products? Because if this is the EU Directive, then why this Parliament, why this Parliament and of course we will submit an amendment to ban and import these foods. We have a lot of fields, we have a surface, where we can produce healthy food, food that we can export, and certainly not these harmful products, which will basically destroy our agricultural culture. Which so far has been traditional and healthy. Therefore, prohibit and prohibit production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68396	The answer of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68397	Thank you, well-respected colleague Bulj, there are certainly a lot of reasons for Croatia to place itself more strictly here, we can move on with this, that there are really no valid scientific insights about the safety of these products. In fact, there are many insights that talk about the necessary caution, i.e. the adverse impact on the environment. So released GMO products, we have many examples, let's say, is it fish or plant products, mixing with natural genetic material leads to unwanted and most often irreparable changes. That's why it's important, to place yourself here harder. It is also important for our citizens to build awareness of their insistence on the consumption of healthy food. So, vegetables, seasonally more delicious than what you can always buy, in large centers. A tomato in January is really something that doesn't taste good. Whether it's our wish, to ensure the production of such tomatoes. Or we'll produce a tomato, for which, when our cousins from America come and marvel at the taste of mouth. So you don't need any salt. And their tomato, you have to watch what training you're going to use to consume at all. So we certainly need to be very careful with GMO products by protecting our interests and ensuring a brighter and better future for new generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68398	The next replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68399	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Dobrovic, you have opened a very important topic, and it can be undermined under one word of money or profit, profit, especially large companies. We have to decide in Croatian agriculture, whether we are going to make our strategy which we do not yet have to decide on as much as possible, in this case as you say, which is then the application of all the seeds used, so that the increase in yields will be better or we have to decide on quality. The moment that peasants from the attic are forbidden to sow seed, in which case they will not get incentives, that's when the problems began. Working intensive production in agriculture enables jobs and all that is happening today in Slavonia, which is that people are leaving us. Great contributions, great corporations will do this, that 100 acres of the country will be enough 1 man to handle it, and there will be no more need for people who could work and earn agriculture. And what's now, it seems to me, in this law most controversially, is this authorized laboratory, whether it's here in the Rockefellers here in Zagreb, whether it's in Osijek, I think there are two of them, so they intertwine both national and reference. The problem is, until the sample gets to the lab, it's a problem. There's got to be a whole system of control from the inspectorate, and that's where I see the problems. We have the Central State Office for Digital Society, for the development of digital society, we have databases at the Ministry of Agriculture, I don't know what it's like in the Ministry of Health. But I don't think those bases are connected, and I think there's a lot of things that can leak and just, you know, that they're systematically registering, that they don't actually examine such a jam, so that to the declaration in the shops themselves. On this point, Croatia must work, because the bad and the law, so it is just to ban the import of GMOs if they are not controls effective and accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68400	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68401	Thank you very much. I agree with what you've brought forward, the esteemed representative, therefore, never enough caution. Laboratory and authorized, however, transparency of work, transparency of procedure, reporting of findings, therefore, that is all that needs to be insisted on. It actually creates the basis for us to talk about safe society. Everything else puts us in danger, therefore, in complete control, therefore, of some capital that has come to Croatia and which imposes its rules. I agree that Croatia's greatest potential is healthy, ecological food, so it is a food that can be several times more expensive and for which there will be growing demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68402	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68403	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Dobrović, you have said one word, a profit that greatly conditions where GMOs will be sown and where GMOs will be used in which country. Unfortunately, there is another word in our country, which is the EU's favor, the ruling one. Let us remember when we joined the EU, in which we accepted everything the Union has told us, while some of the other new EU members entered the EU in this way, accepting all the conditions set by the Union. It's very clear that this law on the door wave opens the entrance of GMOs, so the secretary of state himself said, here I quote it, I wasn't working on the law, I'm just a representative. When I was a secretary of state, I always presented the laws I worked on, not the ones I didn't work on. So then that presentation took so long, I couldn't get the replica board up as short as it lasted. I expected the secretary of state to explain it a little bit better. But it is very clear, too, that his statement that the rulers are pushing a law that has two words, says a restriction or ban. As soon as there's a limit, it means it's allowed. And once we get GMOs into our landscape and into the plant world, then you're very clear on how it ends. Like in America, where their farmers could sow their soybeans and make their seeds, that they came to this day, that companies have their own police, which doesn't just allow them to sow their seeds, because they claim that their patented gene has moved into that seed that they use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68404	Answer, the esteemed representative of Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68405	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I agree that Croatia has shown a tendency to accept laws without much criticism, without someone perhaps now sounds like a populist but modernistic view of the matter. So, to see where Croatia is in this matter, if it stands, what its advantages are, whether they are used, whether they are not used and what can be done and what can be done to form the position it insists on. It's exactly the GMO area where we should be clearer and say no, gentlemen, you can come here to see the wealth of our... diversity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once it's destroyed, we'll just cry for the lost. So, here, please, let's all be active in this, to watch what's going on and to promote, so something collects food, but better quality, healthier. Why would food have to be invaluable? That's unclear, how did we get the average family to pay more for telecommunications than for food, maybe even, why does it have to be like that? Well, that's unnatural. So, let's go eat healthier, and for that we need, therefore, organic agriculture, for that we need conscious citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68406	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68407	Thank you, well-respected representative Dobrović. You mentioned that this law should prohibit the import of GMOs, and it is already massive in Croatia. You will find it very difficult for the ministry to accept this, because according to official records, about 400 products, intended for humans are already on our shelves, and about 90% of the livestock food represents GMOs. So we already have huge amounts of GMOs in Croatia. This shows you among other things those analyses, published by Croatia's control, that 12% of the products that have been obtained for analysis, also, GMOs, by repeating, they analyse, ugl. what's meant for people. And it will go very hard, but in fact it would be quite right, because Croatia is, therefore, a country that at least theoretically declared GMO free, what you mentioned very well, all 21 counties in Croatia were declared a GMO free area. So now you explain to me how it is possible for the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian ministries, to disobey the decisions of their own counties. So they don't respect their own people's decisions. 90 per cent of Croatian citizens oppose GMOs. It's about the same as that... the kind you had when you were independent of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't really understand the mind of those political parties, who are now supporting this. We really need to consider what their interests are, who keeps them in their hands and for what reasons they agree to work even against themselves, that is, against the interests of the groups in which they currently exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68408	Thank you. The esteemed representative Dobrović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68409	Thank you, well-respected Representative Bunjac. To know that the declaration of GMO free zones, in fact, ultimately turns out to be a hypocritical act, because practice is quite different. And really, I think you need to take a break. So, I mentioned that resignation, which is all present in Croatian society. So, neglect and I think it is the only chance to create a critical mass of interest in the Croatian society for this problem. A critical mass that will support other efforts. So that will go the other way. Because really, the world isn't in a great situation, it's actually in an extremely bad situation. We're still standing there and I believe there's a good part of our chance. Anyway, I think we all need to do what we can to make this thing as much change as we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68410	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. ... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There he is. A fellow Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened carefully to your exposure and your concern about the possibility that the pressure of large companies would result from the entry of GMO seeds on a small door and into the Republic of Croatia. However, I wonder if you really think it is possible to prohibit imports, or so on. Imports, a colleague of Bunjac spoke about this GMO food in the Republic of Croatia, where I most think that GMO food of animal origin, i.e. meat, cattle, animals fed by GMOs. Because we know that ships from Brazil come daily to the port of Koper with a GMO strain. How do you think we can handle it and ban the import of that place, because you want the entry, it's now a single market, in which way we can do it. I am the first to do so, but I do not see any possibility for us to ban it, given the free flow of goods in the EU and by the fact that we prohibit our cattlemen from using GMOs... Soy, they're in a far worse situation than anyone around them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's nice to hear about food production without pesticides and without organics, but you know that our people always buy what's cheapest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68412	The answer will be the honourable representative of Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68413	Yeah, we can let things go the way they go, feed on what's on the market. Being uninterested in all those scientific insights that link the issue of food, the issue of chemicals used, the question of environmental quality, the issue of environmental status and human health. We can do that, we can't do anything, we leave everything as it comes, so by some inert, it's one big... It's moving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that the inert is a miracle, so the thing is moving, there's no way to change. However, we can do it differently, and I'm not saying that anything can be done overnight. However, there is a great development chance for the Republic of Croatia. Is that organic stamps, is that, I don't know, a toxicity test or this or that, environmental labelling in terms of residual, water quality chemicals, etc. there are opportunities and there's a lot to be done in this field and I think it's about time something was done in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68414	And the last replica, is the respected representative of Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68415	Thank you very much. Comrade Dobrović, I have one question for you, and I ask you to answer clearly to us and the entire public who is watching this. So, the Committee on, at the the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture and Health and Social Policy in the previous meeting, and thus the Croatian Parliament, has reached one conclusion that Croatia must remain free of cultivation by the country. The county has also come to terms with it. And today we have the task of making a decision, which will allow us to respect the decision of both the county and the Committee on Health and Social Policy and Agriculture, to make Croatia a GMO free farming country. In view of the Directive which has been adopted by the EU, therefore, we now have to adopt a regulation in our legislation, which will ensure that this Directive is implemented. And this directive seeks and allows all countries to make an independent decision regarding GMOs. So our decision is to make Croatia a GMO free country. I ask you, do you agree that this is the only way for Croatia to comply with the European procedure, for Croatia to be a GMO free country. Whether the law we bring makes it possible or not. This is what the Croatian public should hear today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68416	The answer will be the honourable representative of Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68417	So, this law, to open up the possibility of a ban and certainly as such, is obviously the only option Croatia can go to. However, I think that Croatia can show this little greater initiative and a little clearer and firmer determination by some things. This shows that in Croatia a multitude of this problem may be a little better understood, that this affects the processes of legislation in Croatia and that it may have, i.e. should also have repercusions to developmental opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68418	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which they will speak, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68419	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected guests from the ministries. First, let me just briefly refer to what Secretary of State Plazonic said that he did not write it, and next to that, he washed the blame for the law in front of the Parliament. He would briefly only refer, because the two historical cartoons are, in order to make it clear that in fact the gentleman is responsible. Here's the case, when it's Napoleon, 1812. He took Moscow, he sent a peace offering to Russian Emperor Alexander after a Russian count. And that Russian count was nothing but the postman Napoleon, who took the closed envelope to another place. When he appeared before the Russian emperor, the Russian emperor said to throw him in the dungeon, just because he brought it. He was punished. What you're saying is essentially, it also reminds me of the trial, which was, in its own time, the Nazi Eichmann who said at the trial, I didn't kill anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68420	I think this comparison is completely inappropriate and please, let's stay away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68421	It's convenient. It's convenient because a man has to understand his responsibility if he's involved in something criminal. And that smallest barb of wheels in a machine must realize that there is his responsibility. And if Mr. Plazonic can't understand it, it's sad, if he understands, then it's time for him to resign to his post and really grow his little ecological garden with whom he likes to boast, as he's called, when he responds to my exposure. I would like to say, because there has been a number of repeated claims here that this law now prohibits GMOs, in which way this law has ever been passed into Parliament. What are the ways corporations who produce GMOs are used to conquer a particular country? So it's headed by Monstant and there's others like Bass, Bayer, Syngente, etc. They buy scientists and governments, they buy them. Monsanto is the company that produced war poisons in the Vietnam War... before anyone who served for the disposal of leaves from the trees in the jungle so that the American soldiers could find the Vietnamese who fought against them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, this same agency starts producing GMO seeds and gliphosates that go along with it with the same components they just used in battle poisons. Mixing them in cocktails with glyphosates like Roundup and Dr. It has been legally proven, I repeat, by the power vested in Monsanto to purchase 140 government officials in Indonesia. 140. It is known and known that Monsanto bought in the United States judges of the Supreme Court, congressmen, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Government, president of the Congress Committee on Agriculture, they were bought. And that the candidate for President Hillary Clinton herself was a consultant to Monsanta. These are publicly available data. After buying government officials and ministers, then governments of individual states become lobbyists of corporations which we can witness right now. According to Wikileaks, a 2011 US Embassy dispatch from Paris quoted by the Guardian magazine, US Ambassador Craig Stapleton is seeking to launch a military-style trade war against any member of the EU that opposes GMOs. Trade war, do you know how our government trembles before any threat from the United States? Have you seen the vote on Jerusalem in the UN General Assembly? Do you see the American influence in the affair of Agrokora? Do you see any American influence in the purchase of fighter aircraft or other things that are not in the interest of the Croatian people? The Croatian Parliament made a decision in 1998, Mr Jovanovic, that Croatia is a free country from GMOs, including for experimental purposes. '98. For 20 years, we, like now, ban it again. For what? So we have a decision from the Croatian Parliament. All 21 counties were declared GMO free area. 90% and more Croatian residents are against it. Then why these laws? Now I'll tell you what. We have a 2004 Wikileaks dispatch again, the US ambassador talks to the State Secretary for Agriculture, says the resistance of the Croatian people to GMOs is huge and needs to be broken, that's not what I'm saying, so these are official notes. How's he gonna break it? I'll tell you now. By putting his people into the GMO council, the GMO board, and also the Public Health Office. Who's the head of the Department of Public Health today? Pro GMO activist. When these people are introduced into these councils, they will then seek to completely exclude the Croatian Parliament from the decision on GMOs so that the government can address GMOs' issues through regulations. The decision to import livestock food for GMOs was made by the government of Zoran Milanovic. In 2012. You know what happened that day that regulation was passed? There was a pride parade in Split. On that day, when all the media were focused, focused on something that is not essentially government business, this regulation is being adopted today, in silence and no one has recorded it but today you have 90% of livestock food in Croatia, 400 GMO products for people on shelves not only food but also detergents, clothing, cosmetics and various other products. Someone says there's a forest of law here, a cacophony, that we can no longer follow what anyone says, so here's Mr. Plazonic, when you can't follow any more or all those who don't understand what it's all about, when you have constant conflicts between GMO scientists and anti-GMOs, so just go back to what's permanent and these are your holy writings. Take the book of the Bible, I believe you have home, you are a democratic party, you love to stand out with it, and read Genesis, paragraph 11. I'll read it to you, I know it's hard for you, so here, listen. Let the earth sprout with greenery, with grass seed, with trees that are fruitful now, each one according to his kind on earth bearing the fruit that he brings in himself his seed. I would. Genesis, 12. And from the land of green grass that is seeded, behold, Mr. Plazonic, each according to his kind, and the trees that bear fruit which bear their seed, each according to their kind. And God knows she's good. And what are you bringing us here now? You bring us a transfer of horizontal genes, I don't know, from fish to corn. From the apple we can put in the wheat, transfer genes. If that's good, we can see it's not. Now another thing if you believe in money, not God, it's another thing in profit. When the Croatian Parliament decided in 1998 that Croatia is a country without GMOs, i.e. county, then Minister of Environmental Protection Bozo Kovacevic said, excellently, we are going to make Croatia a brand, without GMOs. Perhaps someone among you remembers, suddenly all over Croatia they were raised in jumbo posters, a Croatian country without GMOs. There was a whole campaign about it. But, suddenly, the jumbo posters are gone. They're gone. There's nothing you can do about it... Why are they gone? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does anyone have an explanation to say, at all? In 2005, the Croatian Parliament decided to place labels, labels on the side of the GMO, today in 2018, these labels are not yet available. Do you know what the health minister, Andrija Hebrang, said when they asked him about those stickers? We can't put on GMO stickers because that would damage corporate profits. That's what he said in public. So there's an answer. This is about corporate profits. And now he'll say Mr.... No, I'm against GMOs, you're not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't know how to read the law carefully, because ultimately according to the same team... WikiLeaks is writing this sentence to you clearly, we will break Croatia through European directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, we will break Croatia's resistance through European directives. Inform yourself. And right now, 14 years from 2004. When that plan is built, this is your realisation. Here, you realize, the resistance of Croatia is breaking. With whose help? Those who pass laws like this. And I'm surprised Mr. Križanić says, so there's nothing we can do. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, let them spit on us, let them kill us right now, so they can't do anything. Would the Croatian state have formed if your former President, Mr. Krizani, had been in '98, '99? said, there's nothing we can do, let it be eternal Communism? Would Stjepan Radić, if he had to say, and it was created by Velikasrbija in 1918, we can't do anything, let's grow tomatoes in the garden, like Mr. Plazonić. We can do something, because we are a modern state, because we have a people behind us, because we have our own institution, so we can't. So long as a man is alive, while he has his own self, he can work, not that he can change one law, he can do wonders, individuals are running the world. I'm surprised by your attitude. What does the Mosanto Corporation want? So they want first and foremost to have control over seed production, that peasants can no longer reach seeds, that they must buy their deadly seed every year at first. Not that they make it themselves from year to year, but that they have to buy it. Do you know what Monsanto buys? Here, I'll tell you what Monsanto buys on the market. Monsanto first of all buys companies symmen, buys biotech companies, buys pharmaceutical companies and buys a company for weather forecasting. So, comprehensively. Do you know who the head associate of Monsanto in the Republic of Croatia is? Should I say it at all? And Agrokor. How much did they say that GMO seeds would be sown in Croatia? One-third. Did you know Monsanto has an office for Yugoslavia? If nothing else, it should offend you. They have an office for Yugoslavia, which sows GMO seeds in Croatia as well. So they're so arrogant and rude, they don't even want to write that they have an office for Croatia. Try to find their office somewhere, at some address. Here, now type into Google, you'll get an address in I don't know in Slavonski Brod, come to the door, there's no living soul, they act like ghosts. They work through the government, what was the first Canadian prime minister Tim Oreshkovic to come to Croatia? He asked for 10,000 acres in Slavonia, that was his first assignment. When you asked him why you wanted 10,000 acres, he said it was a business secret. Come on, you tell me, please tell me, what kind of business secret has a Croatian diameter? How is it possible that the Croatian premiere, it tells the people, is a business secret? It's the transparency of work, it's the responsibility of voters. Since I don't have more time for the rest of what I have to say, I will say during an individual debate, and above all... Look at the consequences that GMOs and glyphosates have to say hello to people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68422	Your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68423	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, there is a book called the seed of deception. Indeed, it's not just a danger here, it's the law that defends the representatives of the Ministry of Health, it's not just a danger to human health, to all the diseases that occur, this is a danger, an economic danger. Danger... and Croatian villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't, I think it's clear to everyone in the Republic, that Slavonia has no choice. We need to turn around in organic production, turn to the production of work-intense cultures. Croatian peasant or Croatian man or Slavonac and Baranjac and everyone else in the Republic of Croatia who deals with agriculture is not lazy people, you know. They're honest people, hardworking people, they'll work, they'll dig up, but someone has to pay them for it, and in that sense, agricultural policy has to go. The minister himself said that never more money in agriculture, never less production. And then when we have production, so if we now introduce GMOs, if we increase yields, so we become a raw material base, you know that we are the raw material base of Serbia, we export 108 000 tonnes of soybeans that will sell in Serbia into soy juice and earn considerable added value because we do not have processing capacity. Anyone else remember the torpedo factory in Rijeka? Our tractors that were manufactured there? Does anyone remember a small universal factory in Slatina that had in the area of agriculture a number of products? It's all about this subject. And in the end, who will control whatever law we pass, control is very bad. At this point, the Ministry of Agriculture has no record of what veterinarians are doing on the ground or veterinary inspection. You have at this time many farmers who are forced to give these products, take care of veterinary products, medicines bought on the black market, whether in neighbouring countries and which are given at this time to animals without veterinary inspections having any data on it. And a man can buy pork for roasting without even knowing what drugs or what treatment that pig had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68424	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68425	Thank you very much. Representative Sagar, you've touched a very good topic, which is that by introducing GMOs, small farmers fail. So ever since the GMO was introduced to Argentina, that's where 300,000 small farmers fell. The same trend is now seen in Croatia, so GMOs do not only have health consequences but also have direct consequences for the economy which breaks the myth that it brings some profit. GMOs bring less income in agriculture, it has less nutritious value and it actually leads to the devastation of the village. Because precisely thanks to the import of GMOs, farmers cannot compete with their prices. Everything based on GMOs, eggs, milk or meat, in the beginning is much cheaper than any domestic and healthy production that can naturally be ecological, biodynamic or other to adopt the highest quality forms. And that's why we have, among other things, the destruction of Croatian peasants, they simply cannot deal with these corporate prices. So if anything else should be considered from the position of GDP, from the position of development of the Republic of Croatia, from the position of designing a long-term agriculture strategy that the introduction of GMOs is harmful. Mr. Dobrovic has submitted an amendment to ban the import of GMOs, which is a real test for this government. That's a real test. Ban the import of GMOs, so I'll believe your intentions are good. You have an amendment ahead of you, accept it, but you'll see, as soon as this law comes to the agenda, then 100 procedural reasons will be found why it can't ultimately be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68426	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68427	Dear colleague, I'm glad you mentioned some key points, it's part of that scientific lustration, academic. I'm glad you mentioned this Agent Orange in Vietnam there, you're still today... on the ecological system, they killed millions of people there that nobody answered as we extradite our soldiers to the International Court, it's a good thing you mentioned it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, what about, but the truth is not selective, it is comprehensive, what about black dots in Croatia, from the former system where people had asbestos, those mastodon coves, and the gray industry that fell long ago, you see them from Rijeka to Omis down and wild dumps, you have countries that are from these black points, from the former system, there's not much to talk about, hundreds and hundreds of wrecks, the use of DDTI, that pesticide that are banned, were also used in Yugoslavia, and on which land was used? On the taken land, millions of hectares were taken away, there a Croatian peasant was destroyed. That's why today 5% of the land books are arranged and we have half a million acres of unprocessed land. What about 640 nuclear experiments in the north-east corner of Kazakhstan? For the disappearance of the Aral Sea, with black dots ecological to the entire former Soviet Union? We need to talk about that, too. We remember that story when they were singing there, we're gonna plant grain from the sky, let hungry America and England watch us, and they saved us in '45. South of the collapse, millions of tons of food came from powdered milk, etc. You compared your associate to... It's not exactly in place, I'd say just that he might have been a member of some other party, he's old enough... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You must not speak, and which may have taken away people, Croatian peasants agricultural land which has never been returned and which has totally destroyed the German community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68428	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec, although it was a little out of the picture, so I ask that another member of the Bunjac stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68429	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glasnovic, you are asking why the truth cannot be learned. Well, it's because corporations oversee governments and governments oversee ministries and monitor them at the end of the allocation. Here's an example of what you think as a historian now I come to the Ministry of Culture and say I wrote a book about American crimes in Vietnam, including Agent Orange. Would you get the money? You probably wouldn't get any kunas. But if I came to the Ministry of Culture and said I recorded Rambo VI, then I'd get the money. Why? Because it celebrates the American army that kills those poor Vietnamese unarmed, etc. That's the same thing with GMOs. If you're going to write against GMOs, if you're going to write against corporations, they won't be able to publish anything in any magazine, if you're going to write for theirs, then you'll be able to publish, you won't believe, even in environmental magazines. So the journal Nature, for example, an environmental magazine that finances the state, publishes pro GMO articles. That's the way it is. And so you can fight for the truth as much as you want but you can tell that truth about some narrow circles, but officially you will never be allowed to hear anything about that truth. And this is such a situation for you in Croatia, that you can only actually debate in a way that confirms what the government and corporations want. So, eventually I can discuss two pro GMO scientists, I can talk to two pro-American historians, but you'll never get a debate that I can discuss two opposing sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68430	Thank you very much. Here's proof that this House can be held as evidence that everything can be debated. A colleague, Glasnovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68431	I'm just saying, breach of the Rules of Procedure is a complete detour. I said that the cause of all our evils was the confiscation of economic land taken away at a time of communism. I wasn't talking about writing books in Vietnam, etc., but the core of the problem is confiscation, kidnapped property never brought back to people and destroying a German community that was the driver of modernization in these areas. [[Intruder Reiner: No injured Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68432	The Rules of Procedure have not, of course, been injured, and I ask that we do not abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68433	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, since you mentioned me here's a short replica. So you and I must agree on two goals. We have the exact same goal. The first is for Croatia to be a GMO free country from cultivation of GMOs and to limit or completely disable the import of GMOs and I agree with you there. And I'm an advocate of organic organic farming. But in order to ensure the wishes of citizens, the wishes of 21 counties, the decision of the '98 Parliament, the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, that Croatia be a GMO free country, we must make a law that will ensure it. And this law that we are making today ensures that, because the EU directive clearly states decide on the statute of GMOs in their own country. So we, this Croatian Parliament decides on it. And if we can decide on this, we need to pass this law which then ensures that the EU map makes it clear that Croatia is a free country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68434	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68435	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. That you finally agree with something and with the Living Wall since your party mostly agrees with HDZ. Here's how we're on the same side. However, I must say that you are not quite right because this law does not ensure that Croatia will be a free country from GMOs, because in this law there are such nonsense that even a small child knows that they are completely untrue. So it can't be a law where it's tampering with some kind of co-existence of GMO organic farming that we're going to be able to save ourselves from harmful influences. He must first of all change his own content, he must change the definition of concepts. I repeat again. There is no co-existence of GMOs and organic farming. How much Mr. Plazonic or Mr. Jovanovic will have to be the distance between the GMO field and the ecological field to make sure that there will be no impact. 500 km? How will you explain it? I don't know a bee, a mole, a glider which is ecological and which isn't. They go, birds carry seeds, they carry on their feet, on their beak from one side to the other. That's impossible! It's just not possible to co-exist. And I repeat, the law is completely invalid, false, scientifically unfounded, and therefore must be rejected. I can't promote lies here for the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68436	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I've been standing on my feet for the rest of my life, driving my whole life at 6th speed, and don't ever tell me I'm afraid of anything. I'm not afraid of Europe or anything. But I'm just standing tight on my feet and we have to get out of here. Let's not fool the Croatian public with the kind of floscules you've been doing all along. I'm asking you a very clear question. Tell the Croatian public here today. So, let's make a deal right now. I'm against it, against the cultivation of GMOs. I'm against seeds, but I'm clearly asking if you think it's realistic to ban imports of every single one of those groceries that says that GMOs are free? Do you think it is possible, without consequences in Croatia, to prohibit the import of food for animals that says that GMOs are free and the way we will feed the nation after two weeks? I want to ask you this very clearly, and then later we'll talk about the declarations and what I want to talk about. I'm not a lobbyist, nor do I think I'm a lobbyist of any corporations, nor am I for GMOs. In fact, we as a HDZ club have made it very clear, and I have personally declared it a hundred times already. However, about what you're saying it has nothing to do with anything, that for organic production, that for GMOs free production of livestock food and that for GMOs free food for people. That's right. However, answer a specific question, and do not say that I am the one who is at peace with all things. Neither have I ever been, nor will I be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68438	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68439	Thank you, dear representative Križanić. You may not personally be a lobbyist in a way to get money from Monsant, but you are networked into one structure that essentially does not provide enough resistance, which is passive, and thus allows corporations to carry out their intentions. You're asking if it's possible to do something without consequences. Well, nothing can be done without consequences. Every day you get up in the morning, there will be consequences. But these consequences that would result from a complete ban on GMO food imports would be positive. Here I guarantee you that the health of the people will be improved further I guarantee you that Croatian peasants will earn more than they do now. I guarantee you the O.P.G. block would be less. I also guarantee that Croatia will become a positive role model in the world and that more tourists would probably come to us if they were 100% sure that all the food they eat is domestic and healthy. Here's if it means anything to you. Let's say I'm personally afraid to eat in restaurants, because I never know what I'm going to get. I'm just scared. And if the food were, if you were 100% sure everything was okay. Maybe he'd get a little bold sometimes, and I'd eat something. This is how I buy everything in the country, looking for a needle in a haystack layer that I'm at least 99% sure they've grown themselves from the right seeds, etc. So, you're saying would there be consequences? Yes, there would be consequences, but these consequences would be good for the Croatian people and harmful for the corporation, but that's none of our business.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68440	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68441	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you on the issue that Croatia should be a GMO free country and that it should be removed from it and there is no Zeljko alone in the SDP, nor is it true what you said. That's one of the biggest lies you said HDZ was the same as SDP. And don't insult me, it always hurts me the most. But what I want to say here in particular is that one Europe, one food, the same quality of food and ingredients everywhere in the EU and that it must not profit as you said in your presentation be the basis for the business decisions of certain corporations. And that is why I support here our strong representative in the European Parliament, Mrs Biljana Borzana, in this fight. It has become a symbol of Europe in the protection and equality of products throughout Europe, i.e. to protect consumers throughout Europe, that it does not happen, for example, that we have Nutela one in Croatia, lower quality than in Germany. For example, if we had hipe spoons in Austria one recipe, in Croatia another recipe of course for the benefit of profits and for the damage to the quality of the product in the Republic of Croatia, hip and changed the recipe. Or, for example, chocolate Milk. So we must not allow that, and Mr Reiner, I ask you, instead of investing so much energy as the chairman of the Constitution Committee, that the Rules of Procedure be changed in a way that does not discuss matters here, that representatives and MPs are limited, put your energy into the Parliament's Rules of Procedure to introduce a committee of the Consumer Protection Council to fight here for our consumers and our citizens when the majority are not done by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68442	Comrade Maras, your club will propose it as a change of rules of procedure, so we'll discuss it. And now they're going to answer you, and you're not going to pollomize with me, but you should have been with your colleague, Bunjac, so your colleague will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68443	Thank you very much, Reverend Maras. I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but you often have the exact same opinion as HDZ. Here's an example just a small one. Last week, take Mr. Stier and Mr. Klisovic's speech, it was a copy paste. What Mr. Stier said, Mr. Klisovic repeated, it was the same thing. This Mr. Klisovic is the main propagandist of the Titus in Croatia. He stood up for it while he was in government, saying it was great, wonderful. And what is a tip other than a colonial contract for the benefit of American corporations? And what happens then, I appreciate you, I appreciate your opinion, I appreciate some other colleagues in the SDP. But then what happens in your party? Instead of proposing Mr Maras for the presidential candidate, Mr Klisovic is proposed for the candidate president. And that's a confirmation of who dominates you. You are dominated by those who are not essentially opposition to the right. And when people tell you that you're actually ready for the big coalition, you get angry. You may not be in it, but I guarantee you that this option is real. She's real. I've heard it from some of the other representatives from your party, and I've heard it from my colleagues from HDZ. Let's start fulfilling your true function of opposition. Be an opposition. How is it possible that you got the Rules of Procedure of the SDP and the Living Wall didn't get it? Let us come to a session of the Constitution without the Rules of Procedure, and you have it in your hands. What does that look like in our eyes? Looks like a cohabitation to us. I'm sorry to have to say that. You become a real opposition, and then some things will be much clearer and there will be no need for such duels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68444	First of all, I ask that we stick to the agenda, or agenda points, because the Rules of Procedure are not on the agenda. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68445	Article 232 related to 236 and 238, and I have to tell you one thing here, my colleague Bunjac. I'd rather have my hand dry than raise my hand for HDZ. I'm looking at my colleague Sabina Glasovac here, watching Varga, watching Kovac, watching Opačić, Vidovic, Fred, Željko and Ostojić, and I'm telling you that you can tell what you're saying to someone who's uninformed. But there's no way for a big coalition to believe me. And on the other hand, don't underestimate your colleagues, we don't look over our shoulder who's more valuable, who's a major opposition, who's a smaller opposition. It doesn't matter. Kolega Klisovic is a non-serial politician and I am confident he will give a lot more clues in Croatian politics. And don't try to compare me with him, because we're neither height nor habitat-like, but we're thinking about a lot of topics the same way and I believe you'll do it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68446	Thank you very much. I already told my colleagues Bunjcu that he had left the topic, therefore you should not have intervened, but of course you used it to maintain your pledoies. The next replica is Honorable Representative Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68447	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's a colleague of Bunjac, while you were arguing in your debate, you had some kind of theatrical allegations. And I look at my colleagues who have listened to your argument and so on with a smile they smile and so cheerful. But then I think about how many of them have grandkids at home and when they come home for the weekend, they would give it all to these grandchildren. And today we are discussing something that will apply precisely to the life of their grandchildren and do not think about what will happen when Croatia is ruled by GMOs. You said that Croatia is a sovereign state. We're on paper. Unfortunately, multinational companies have bigger budgets than the Republic of Croatia, and we know that in our Republic of Croatia there are people who would sell their mother for money, let alone allow the introduction of GMOs to grow in the Republic of Croatia. You've said a lot theatrely, but we also have to be theatrical, because this is a topic that matters because our life is not the one that ends the world, but after every life, a new life is born. But if he's gonna be after all this GMO, then you've pissed him off to those who'll live behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68448	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68449	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad you're aware of this problem. You've said very nicely and it's sad to hear that people are willing to sell themselves for money without any responsibility for the consequences, no responsibility for generations to come and at least some responsibility for animals, nature or the environment. I understand that HDZ advocates make fun of me. It's their way of communicating with me. They therefore do not have the ability to argue without argument, so they can either smile or change the Rules of Procedure or can amend electoral legislation, use procedural violence. But basically this problem will not be solved. The problem of GMOs is very dangerous. I'll get back to you during an individual debate. I would also like to draw attention to the problems he is causing to the economy and to the problems he poses to the sovereignty of the states with possible contracts that we will yet accept as the famous Titus. And I would especially like to warn, therefore, of the problems that bring people's health, because it is quite certain that the health of Croatian citizens from year to year is becoming increasingly difficult. Here is the occasion I will ask today a representative question why the Croatian Ministry of Health no longer publishes information about the deaths of cancer. Until three years ago, this data was being published, and now that data is no longer being published. You can't read that data anywhere anymore, so since I can't read your question, I'm going to ask a representative question today, so maybe we can finally find out what the trends are, and we can figure out in advance that they're very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68450	Thank you. The next club is representative of the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Križanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68451	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon to all. In fact, this is already the third reading, given that we have had one reading in the last session and this proposal to amend and supplement this law has grown so far that we are already boring ourselves, and in fact it is about changes and additions that most often do not have 5% to do with what we are discussing here. I'll say a few words about the metrics after all. We are now facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the GMO Act, which brings national legislation into line with the acquis of the EU and sets out a legal and inspection aspect in dealing with genetically modified organisms. The GMO was also discussed in previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament within the Committee on Health, the Committee on Agriculture and Environmental Protection for reasons of the impact of the law provision on the prescribed competences. Before the debate on the draft law, I would refer to the opinion that, in the framework of the political dialogue in June 2015, the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Agriculture referred to the European Commission on the possibility of Member States restricting or prohibiting the use of GMOs for food and food in their territory. The opinion was expressed that the proposal for a Regulation which was then required to lay down clearer measures of exemption from the use of genetically modified food and feed for animals, but also to leave the right for Member States to decide on exemption from use without giving specific conditions. In its reply, the Commission referred the applicant to the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU in particular to Article 15. Freedom of entrepreneurship. So it was the use of GMOs and food for animals, and today, when we discuss this bill, we are talking about comprehensive treatment of genetically modified organisms. Furthermore, the transposition of key provisions of Directive 2015/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the possibility of Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their national territory. This proposal therefore regulates the handling, limited use and deliberate introduction into the environment of GMOs, the placing of GMOs and products containing or consisting of or originating from GMOs on the market. Handling, transport and packaging of GMOs, waste management resulting from the use of GMOs, liability for damage caused by unauthorised use of GMOs, methods and techniques of official controls and infringement provisions. It is important to stress that as an EU Member State, the Republic of Croatia has taken over the rights and obligations that we need to respect if we want to be responsible and full member of the EU and avoid infringements of European law while protecting the interests that Croatia represents on the subject of genetically modified organisms. This also relates to the adoption of the key provisions of the above-mentioned Directive as incorporated in the draft law. I would like to remind here what has already been said several times that the terms of the Croatian units of regional and regional self-government declared by the decisions of their bodies by GMOs are being declared free of GMOs as a GMO free country. The proposal for a law provides for the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture which will provide for the restriction or prohibition of GMO cultivation in part or whole of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The procedure in which the Republic of Croatia will submit a request to the European Commission for exemption from the cultivation of genetically modified organisms left sufficient space for determining the reasons for which Croatia may be called in connection with that request. So we are undoubtedly against the cultivation of GMOs throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia in line with the position of all 21 counties. Regardless of this, the adoption of a new law is causing with the right of huge public interest, but also certain reasonable doubts about the possibility of preventing the impact of globalisation as well as that of fellow Dobrović, in particular the single European market, on the preservation of state sovereignty in relation to the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia in the form of seeds of selected breeding. We need to be energetic and resolutional here. You hear what I'm saying? We need to be resolute here, because the very thought of the possibility of an experimental field, even under controlled conditions, could cause inconspicuous consequences, and such a GMO seed could get out of control. Croatia is a small country and therefore, as regards the introduction of any and the smallest GMO seed, even for experiments and in the strictest conditions of cultivation strictly against. Therefore, take all measures to protect against the sowing of GMO seeds as measures to severely punish the offender. On the other hand, according to the above, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the single EU market. It has therefore assumed both rights and obligations so that it is impossible to prohibit the import of meat from EU-fed GMOs. There's no imports, it's not imports, it's input. It's a free transport of goods. Of all the groceries we introduced last year, fellow MPs, you know the ones we introduced most? Pigmeat. Because we pigs don't know how to produce anymore. We import pork mainly from Europe from the countries that feed these animals with a GMO strain. It is therefore not correct or economically acceptable to prohibit our farmers GMOs from using food for animals that are freely used by all their colleagues in the EU and which is cheaper than 25%. With such a ban, our cattlemen, along with all other benefits used by EU farmers, would be further uncompetitive on the single European market. For example, I ask the question where he's going, I've asked that a hundred times, no one's answered me yet. Where's the soybean going? GMO soy that comes with a boat and lands at the port of Koper. It's going to the EU market. No ship has returned to Brazil yet. That is why it is extremely important, by modelling other EU members, to encourage our legislation in all possible ways of GMO free production. Furtherly, make it clear that the labelling and declarations of food and agricultural products, as well as GMOs, are free, as well as strict navigation control. In that case, consumer choice. In the end, once again, Mr. President, you may have a moment. In the end, once again, very tightly do not grow GMOs and not even for experiments and in the most controlled conditions. And to keep it strictly under control, because in the control samples from last year, they were all negative. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68452	We have a few replicas. The first is dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68453	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Križanić, here you spoke of your opposition and position of your club, the opposition of GMO products, and I believe that the decisions of our counties against the production of GMO products, however it is also the fact that we remain this dangerous, this very dangerous, that remains a very important and crucial moment which this law does not regulate and that is imports. It's an importing GMO food that can be sold on our shelves and, of course, in the form of seeds. If import is allowed, to be on our drawers, and not only to grow, however, I have given one amendment that will not be allowed either, means to be on the market, to be grown and to be production of GMO products and this is the sequence of decisions of all RS counties that oppose. And I believe that this amendment that I have submitted will support, because we simply have to protect it in all of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Because our market must not be allowed for these products to be, that we are trading these foreign products of GMOs that are harmful to both economic and economic and health and it is evident that the stakeholders of Croatia have assessed, of course with the help of our policy they intended to be trade, that we are only customers of these harmful GMOs. That's why I believe that you and the club will support this amendment of mine and once we meet the wishes of all the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68454	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68455	Mr. Bully, I thank you for your question, although I didn't understand your amendment, I didn't even read it. I don't know exactly what he's referring to. If we're talking about the import of seeds and the breeding permits, we're very clear here. I have said this five times that the HDZ Club is against cultivation and imports of GMO seeds. If we're talking about GMO food and GMO feed for animals, we talked about it a little before and I don't know what's not clear about it. There is no way, because there is no import, but it is the intake of GMO food. So EU meat is not controlled at the borders in any way and it comes uninterruptedly to our trade chain shelves and there is no control and there is no way to prohibit import or import meat from the EU, because it is not import. It is a single European market or intertrade. I don't know what your amendment is about. If you're thinking of importing such food, then there's no possibility. But there may be a possibility of a declaration. We insist that the declarations that the food is clearly written by GMOs free, and I insist on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68456	Second replica, dear colleague Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68457	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, honourable representative Krizanic. Kissinger said in the '70s, control the oil, you'll control the country. Control the food, you'll control the people. So it's on the GMO's trail. It has certainly not been demonstrated that GMOs have a positive or negative effect on the human organism. Experts claim that no sufficient long-term examination has been conducted. The presence of GMOs since 2007 is monitored in Croatia. Since then, we have not seen any adverse effects on human health, animal health, or environmental harm. As of 1 July 2013, the rules of compliance with European directives and the introduction of GMOs into the market have entered into force. Therefore, there is the possibility of placing GMOs on the market but with respect to national rules, so that Croatia can be declared a GMO free country. So my question is whether GMOs or food are produced in Croatia, say hybrid corn, because we know that there is production of first, second and third generations. It's your area, so here you are probably informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68458	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68459	I appreciate the question. As far as I have information in Croatia, GMO seeds are not produced. Not only is it not produced, but it is constantly controlled. And last year we had, I have no record of how much control, no semen, no animal food was GMO. On the other hand, talking about food imports, most importantly, are declarations. Anyone who wants to buy GMOs free food, it has to be strictly declared, so whoever likes to have it, then they'll buy two, three kunas more expensive, one that's not declared, which is declared or cheaper, which is not declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68460	Third replica, esteemed colleague Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68461	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Križanić, you said in your debate that much has nothing to do with this law that we are discussing here. However, many things are not even put into the law that should be discussed. You say this is just compliance with the EU, with regulations. Unfortunately, we're doing all the harmonisation just so we can rewrite them and we don't stand up to anything. It's already known to everyone today. However, this law regulates and damages from GMOs as you said, and these damages are not like that saying about the child and the jar, so the jar breaks, buy another cup. Dear President, here's my colleague Križanić, who can't hear me. All HDZ members and ruling coalitions and headscarfs have arrived so that no one can talk. So I said the damage from GMOs isn't like the one from the saying about the kid and the jar, where the jar breaks down and buys an easy second cup. [[/Adversity President: Zamor all, not only from HDZ. Please proceed.]] The damages here are far-reaching, can't be corrected and have great harm to the health of our population. As for the soybean and soy shotgun you were talking about, I believe that the soybeans of GMO free soybeans produced in Croatia are no more expensive than the one imported. You know that soybeans sold from 2.45 to 3 kuna last year. And it wouldn't have been three kunas if it hadn't been for this market in neighbouring Serbia that bought almost all of it, all of the surpluses of soya soysha in the Republic of Croatia, so maybe our pig production isn't competitive. Because unfortunately, we don't even process soy anymore, we don't sell soy on the market, but we only import from Argentina their soy which is certainly harmful because it's 100% modified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68462	The answer to the replica, and then we'll join the vote afterwards. Here's my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68463	I thank you, Mr. Lenart, for your replica. First, Mr Jovanovic was already talking about this, and that is why the adoption of this law is important to us, so that later the government can determine by regulation that we want to be a GMO free country in terms of breeding and seed. I can't answer you, but I'm hypothetically asking you a question you know it's true that GMOs are cheaper than GMOs free. That's a fact. If you were, I'd ask you a question, but you can't answer me, so you'll answer me in ours. You're a producer, you know very well that it's not good to ban the import of GMOs for livestock products because with this, we would have destroyed this livestock production five times more times than we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68464	Thank you. Before we continue our work, we have more replicas to present our colleagues, Križanić. Just information. We continue to work on January 31st on Wednesday at the final proposal for a law on agricultural land, second reading, P.Z. No. 178th and next week's schedule has just been sent, so you'll have it in a moment. We continue to work and pray now for the next line, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please. Or maybe we should wait for them to leave their fellow assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68465	We're going back to work. We have two more replicas. Mr Branimir Bunjac's first replica of Mr Križanić's presentation, I remind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68466	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Križanić, here's a question I'd like to ask you, please answer me. You are concerned if I am well aware of livestock farming and whether you feed your cattle GMOs with food or pure food without GMOs. You say Croatia cannot oppose the EU, because they are very dangerous and would suffer consequences. However, there is one person you do not love in HDZ in principle, and that is Joseph Broz Tito, who is '48. He said no to Stalin, and Stalin said to that, you know what, I'm gonna wave a little finger and Tito's gonna fall. We will no longer deliver raw materials to them, we will no longer deliver machines to them, we will not buy anything from them, we will organize a rebellion in their country, and within a few months, it is over. But as you can see from all that, there was nothing. Stalin died, and he fell, and so did his heirs. But Tito outlived them all and ruled in a country that was grateful to him for resisting one totalitarianism, even though in the end he himself was inclined to do so and was a part of it until recently. So I think that by opposing the European Union, Croatia would face no significant consequences, not even EU members, but rather the consequences of the US corporation, and it is only necessary to encourage it. All it takes is, here, 76 people raise their hands against the law and the end of the story. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68467	Thank you. Mr. Križanić, answer. I would beg you a little silence, so that MPs can concentrate in their presentations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68468	Thank you, Mr. Bunzac, for your question. First of all, I want to tell you that I never talk to you with a laugh, but I always listen to you very carefully and that our colleague Maras threw us HDZs, with a smile, we listen to you, that little bit, throws me clips between the two of us. As for cattle, yes, we feed cattle with our own food, because we're lucky, so we have enough food, we buy corn, we sow soy. And that is why we are extremely difficult to compete with, because we know that others are buying food with GMOs from neighbouring Slovenia from Copra. As for the rules of the game, yes, if we have entered a community called the EU, then we must stick to some rules of the game that are prescribed. We can't, we'd just take some things that fit us, and those that don't, we wouldn't. So I repeat once again, we are for GMOs free, especially breeding and especially seeds. We are also for GMO free livestock, if that's possible, I'm just saying you're responsible. And there's a gentleman who deals with cattle from HSS, and I'm saying you told me, that you're justifiably claiming that food would be cheaper in that case. I don't see any way of doing that, precisely because we have a GMO coming to us, we know that we have GMO food coming to Croatia and those who feed GMO food, cattle, are certainly competitive than those who don't feed, so they can certainly sell such a final product cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68469	Thank you, too. Last line, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68470	... We at HSS support your thinking that you have said that Croatia must be left without GMOs and that it must be clearly prescribed by law. [[Specially enabled.]] You say the law is good and says it clearly. I also asked a question in the replica of my secretary of state, and here I repeat to you, because I didn't get an answer. Why, then, remains in the draft law in Art.10 the possibility that a state body, is thought likely to propose to the Ministry of Agriculture, and that the Government can make a decision by means of a regulation that some GMOs are being introduced into some area to put some kind of experiment. And you said that even in the experiment you would not be allowed to have in Croatia GMOs, so that it could remain this proposal Article 10. In law? Because it certainly opens up the possibility that under pressure, any other directive or foreign companies, someone from the ministry would suggest to the government that the government make one such decision by regulation. We think from the HSS that the government cannot make such decisions with regulations, that only the Croatian Parliament can do so and that it should be thrown out in law. And what we can do, which is better, to mark the products that enter the Croatian market and control them, because we also have to work on the education of consumers to mark such food that has the ingredients of GMOs in it. We need to design an action like we designed to buy Croatian or honey from Croatian meadows or milk from Croatian farms. Food without GMOs and thus help the OPGs, and what we can do, and that is to save and help our own minds, and we still have at the Agricultural Institute in Osijek and in other institutions, to raise the production of our own seeds, which is not GMOs and thus promote such promotions that are not GMOs and our production and competitiveness of our agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68471	Thank you very much. We're going on with the clubs, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68472	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic. If there was a debate about it, I think you were sitting on that committee, when we talked about whether it should be released to the government or whether it should be the parliament's decision alone. And there were different opinions. I can agree with you, we talked about it, about the speed of the procedure. My position is very clear here, the HDZ's position is expressed, through me, very clearly on what I think about this cultivation and what I think about the seeds. Of course I support what you've been saying about control, the declarations, we still have to be realistic and we know it's very difficult. All that to happen, it can't happen quickly, to ban the import of food, where we know that there is, especially when we talk about meat, we know that it's fed on purpose... is fed to GMO products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the declarations are crucial. I repeat again, and extremely important, extremely important, to encourage. To encourage in Croatia, you have I know, that in Varazdin Koka, declared GMO free of its products, encouraged such domestic production that it would be GMOs so that it would be something more expensive, but it would certainly be recognized by people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68473	Thank you, too. Indeed now, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This bill of law, we heard the secretary of state, compared to the first reading, right? has been completed in a legal nomotechnical sense. Without it, there may be no need to repeat everything we said during the first reading. As we have heard on several occasions, the legislative proposal complements the current legislative framework for the transposition into the national legislation of the EU Council Directive, which regulates the area of restriction or, in particular, the prohibition of cultivation of GMOs, in part or in the whole of the country. Legal persons shall also be prescribed for the purposes of authorising laboratories for the examination, control and monitoring of GMOs, products consisting of content or originated from GMOs, official laboratories, reference laboratories and national reference laboratory for GMOs. The provisions on jurisdiction in the implementation of administrative, professional and inspection supervision, which is particularly relevant for Croatian constructions over the implementation of measures to limit or prohibit GMO cultivation in part or in the entire national area, as well as the control of waste management from GMOs, shall be revised. In the SDP club, we believe that the law satisfactorily regulates the area of treatment with GMOs and that it enables flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to EU legislation in the way that it is sought and wanted by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore stress for the sake of the public, since it has been prohibited throughout the Republic of Croatia to further point out that it is a matter of harmonising national legislation with the new acquis of the EU, which also regulates the procedure of the Croatian state area in terms of the ban on GMO cultivation and does not change the position so far in terms of the ban on GMO cultivation. It is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear that this law is a means, a tool which we continue to ensure in Croatia that it is a Croatian GMO of free state cultivation. I agree with my colleagues from the HSS and some other debaters, so that certain questions from the jurisdiction of this law are not allowed to be addressed by government regulations but rather by all such decisions being taken by the Croatian Parliament. In particular, I also stress the need to create preconditions to promote GMOs free production of agricultural and food products, as well as the need for consumer education on food quality and origin. This is allowed within the European legal framework and in this way we must also support a more precise declaration of agricultural and food products so that citizens know at all times what food they have on their tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68475	Thank you, too. Mr. Davor Vlaovic, the club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68476	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with associates. Here's the HSS club repeats once again the position of our club and our fellow citizens that Croatia must and should continue to be a country where there will be no GMOs in production or in transport, and we must work on it and protect our products from GMO products and control food imports at least through quality control and labelling if we can't ban the import of GMO products. What this law certainly needs to be is a tool of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen that attitude. I would also like to remind myself of the initiative that the Republic of Croatia and its individual bodies and institutions have launched an initiative to show, together with Italy and Austria through the Alps-Adria association and to strengthen this attitude and, as such, three neighbours who want to develop their agricultural production without GMOs, a wider European community that we see life differently with nature and co-existence with nature and through plant production and through other types of production in a way that protects the environment, protects nature, protects consumers, and, on the other hand, strengthens our agricultural production, that we have enough in the production of agricultural food, when we have already made a constitutional decision that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy in Croatia then and through this vision we must show that it is indeed so. At this moment, we are implementing through this law a European Directive 2015/412 which allows EU members to define their position through their legislation and to explain it in a quality way through a number of areas, which is here and done in Article 11 of Article 52, where all our limitations are listed, which is why we are looking for it. It stresses that we want to preserve biodiversity, to have a range of protected areas in the Republic of Croatia over 400, over 7.5 thousand kilometres of different species of nature protection, to have a chance and to develop countries and economies through cooperation with tourism and agriculture, and that it is certainly one of our goals and definitions of the development of organic agriculture. However, what we do not have, and we do not have, on the basis of which the elements of this article would be an even better quality basis for reason for Croatia to be a GMO free, we do not have a strategy to develop agriculture, we do not have defined areas of agricultural production, which is an area of war production, which fruit production, where this area of organic farming is such documents we do not have and will certainly need to initiate it urgently. Here's the HSS club asking to finally move forward with the development strategy of agriculture to define this so that we can rely on this article in this law. And what particularly bothers us and what I have already said through replicas is unclear why, after all of our criticisms and in the first reading, Article 10 of Article 27, where, in a certain way, it is possible for GMO reproductive plant material to be introduced into the environment for the purpose of different marketing only on areas which, on the proposal of the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the affairs of agriculture and forestry, will be determined by the Government regulation. We ask that this be deleted from the law, that our central body cannot, and is meant by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to propose to the Government that the government amends the provisions that we all agree that Croatia must be GMOs. It is inadmissible and it must not remain in the law, it leaves at a small door the possibility to still come to GMOs in the Republic of Croatia. And what we are certainly asking of our Europarliamentaries and our representatives when these topics are on the European Council and other bodies within the European Parliament, that we have a clear view that Croatia is against GMOs, we have not shown this in several cases. So I would remind myself of the case when it is required to introduce new hybrids into the EU market, and at present there are 58 GMOs, our representatives have to be clear that Croatia is against, the same time as the vote in the European Parliament on whether glyphosate can remain on the EU market, we see how much pressure there has been, that for two hands there is still 5 years of glyphosate left on the European market, what we can do in the Republic, and that it is certain to educate consumers and point to those scientific research that have shown that gliphosate is harmful to the environment and human health and that it is not used as such. We can also work on the education of our consumers, our fellow citizens, not to buy products that contain GMOs, that they are quality marked and that our inspections are clearly and controlled by those who do not label products as such. And what we, as HSS, are certainly asking the Ministry of Agriculture to initiate an action to initiate the agricultural products that our OPGs do and do not have in themselves GMOs, to mark them as such and as it did with the action of Croatian milk with Croatian farms, honey bees and so on. Such actions certainly contribute to the development of our domestic production, the competitiveness of our agricultural products and the protection of consumers. And here I am finally repeating that we will be against if such provisions in Article 10 remain in this law because in this way we leave space to be through different experiments or scientific purposes or anything in our nature, to bring into our environment GMOs which are difficult to control because it is impossible to follow what will happen in nature, possible different vectors will be passed on by these genes, some natural disasters can come into our environment to mix with other plant and animal materials, and in this way, we have quality production to preserve these genes without GMOs, and that we have said in the Agricultural Institute Osijek and in other scientific institutions dealing with the production of seeds, we have the quality of production to preserve these genes without GMOs, and that in this way we lift agricultural production and some other stimulating measures, to raise production and livestock food in Croatia, and we do not have to produce in our own way. Food imports are growing and unfortunately domestic production is falling, somewhere over 30% we have fewer agricultural productions compared to previous years. We have a smaller number of OPGs in the register which says that we have not given the emphasis enough that agriculture is a strategic branch in the Republic of Croatia and that we need food production. Here in this sense, and this law is a good tool, however, such articles that leave space for GMOs to come to Croatia are not good and must not be in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68477	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68478	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vlaovic, I agree with your statements in the presentation, with the caution you have indicated that it is necessary. I'd refer to one fact that I don't think it's clear enough here today. So it's not true that there are no quality scientific insights, there are a number of scientific insights, however, there's one noise that's created with counter-inspects, but it's a quasi of science that's funded by the famous, so these aren't scientific papers and scientists who are at a competitive level, who publish in magazines, so things are quite clear and it's about inadmissible procedure in something that we shouldn't touch, the development is quite somewhere else. And what's happening to us today is a series of profits, money and interests in our area, and here we are, like lambs, acting and watching what's happening to us. This strategy you pointed to, so agricultural development is necessary and only it can be clearly articulated can things change as much as possible. Here, please, what do you think of that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68479	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Dobrović, I agree with you that we are not sufficiently singled out from the state budget into the development of science and research and that we need to increase these amounts and increase our contribution that our scientists are working to explore existing genetic material, seeds and everything they deal with in their professional activities and prove that we have quality products and it is shown that our seed soybeans are exported not only to countries of the former state but also beyond, meaning that we have a quality product. Of course, science must always function as a real development of society, conservation of the environment and consumer care, and unfortunately there are those who are placed in the function of the scientist, which are given to the function of profit, large companies as mentioned in Monsanto where different ways are trying to prove that it is not exactly as it is claimed, that glyphosate is dangerous to the environment and to the health of people. I agree with you that there are a number of scientific proven attempts, research which, and in fact, say that this is the case, and that we need to give a quality presentation to our citizens and give even though this product is cheaper and cheaper, it must be said that it is also dangerous and that as such, it is not yet sufficiently explored, which is a generational impact on the development of people and what it can have in the future and what can have an impact on biodiversity but also on the quality of life or human health. I therefore certainly support that Croatia loses GMOs, I call on our fellow citizens not to buy such products and to strive to stimulate domestic science, domestic production and labelling of GMOs free of charge, to help our OPGs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68481	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar now has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68482	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, therefore, is a very short replica. When we talk about agriculture and agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, it's clear that we have a tradition, we have knowledge we even have in the system of higher education of agriculture colleges where there are a lot of experts, people who understand that question, we just want to decide in which direction we're going to develop agriculture, what you're saying. There's never been more money in agriculture, and there's never been less production. So we have to decide whether agriculture will hire people tomorrow, if we're going to get as much added value out of it as possible, or if we're going to keep going like this, and then we're going to export what others are going to build added value on and we're going to be a raw material base. And that's the question. And that's why this is a professional topic that goes beyond the knowledge of an average citizen and I don't want to say any of those things, because I don't know about it, I don't know enough about how harmful it really is, whether it causes diseases, severe illnesses or not, but what I certainly know can have a significant impact on agriculture because we can have big yields, and that we have a small profit, a small number of employees and, ultimately, that we have a deserted Croatian village. Here's the key thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68483	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68484	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, yes, we need a strategy of agricultural production and it is necessary to protect domestic production, including through such laws, you can see that here in Article 11 it is beautifully listed that GMOs cannot be introduced into the area of the ecological network, an area intended for organic agricultural production, an area intended for ecological forms of tourism. However, when we put it in the arguments to the European Commission, they will ask where are these areas, how did you get out of the zone, on which documents you wrote them, they are gone. That is why I emphasized this, to understand the seriousness of this, this is well stated and should be so pointed out that these are the areas that we have to ask for these reasons for Croatia to be left without GMOs, however, we have to have documents that stand by it and that is how we have arranged in the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with you that our science and our experts and at agricultural colleges and institutes have knowledge to produce quality seeds, but we also have to commend our agricultural producers who have good yields with our seeds that are nothing lower than the seed that has been modified and there is no reason to bring it into our biocenosis because in this way we disrupt and biological diversity, we create a danger of disrupting the same and also affecting people's health because there are a number of research, see what happened in America, how much it is after the use and consumption of that food that is made of GMOs that have increased number and heart patients and problems have people with airways, with obesity, blood pressure etc., and certainly we do not want our citizens in Croatia. That is why we are so loud that GMOs should not be in Croatia and that these items in Article 10 can not be that some government regulation can amend the law and bring GMOs into Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68485	Thank you, time. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj has his first debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68486	Thank you very much. Here are my predecessors, most of which have all pointed out what I agree about, but the fact is that in this law or directive that we are now EU are not protected from being GMOs and seeds on our market, because it is very important that this seed that we already assume is in Croatia and that this seed cannot be limited. You don't have to close your hands, give evidence that this seed has not been in Croatia so far, I think you can listen to my amendment as well, the amendment is in accordance with the law and my amendment would basically be met and the demands of all the counties that have given and that are opposed to GMO products, not only in growing, production but also in the market, on our shelves not to be GMO products because we can't be, we also destroy our agricultural production, if GMO products are foreign to our drawers and it's obviously here and the interest of that directive to sell from large companies like Monsanto, that our citizens buy their products that will be much cheaper but more harmful, much more harmful than our organic products. It would be much better and more acceptable for me to capture what is the desire of all Croatia, so I see no reason to introduce a ban, cultivation, import, placing on the market GMOs throughout the region of Croatia and to protect human health and preserve our organic organic production throughout the region of the Republic of Croatia. Especially since the Republic of Croatia has considerable potential, traditional food production, which is already a recognised fact but unfortunately with such a market where GMOs will be able to be on our drawers, we are questioning and developing agriculture, and anyway agriculture at the bottom, villages are extinct, simply 2/3 of Croatia have been evicted primarily because of the encouraging measures given to large companies such as Todorovic through the OPGs of their people, not the OPG people who are really dealing with it. I believe that this law should protect this throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so I will propose that Article 7(2) is added to Article 5 and that it does not allow the use of GMOs with a limited use of GMOs or the deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment for any purpose particularly of placing GMOs on the market for cultivation purposes under Article 22, 12 of the proposal. So in Article 52c, the words are amended and they are prohibited from growing and importing and placing on the market, for all individual GMOs or groups of GMOs throughout the Republic of Croatia and thus would protect the market, meaning that there are no general GMOs on the market to be imported, and the amendment itself would be prohibited... use neither limited use nor possible introduction of GMOs into the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe that, after all these discussions that we have had here, in the protection of our agriculture, peasants, organic and organic production, because Croatia was essentially to be declared as a tourist detonator and an ecologically protected area. In this way, it continues to respect the directive exclusively in this section, and I do not know if it is a directive, or if Parliament has the right to make amendments and to adopt them or if this is really a directive. So if it's a directive, then we don't even vote. We didn't protect the market from GMO products. I think this is at least a question, but if you bring... in the market issue of the referendum, where citizens should decide the Republic of Croatia, whether they want GMO products to appear in the drawers of trade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a serious question, because I believe that this cheap food will endanger both agriculture and the economy as a whole, a particular village,... The village, with it on the market to be much cheaper products, but unfortunately, questionable qualities and simple companies such as Monsanto those destroying and destroying their products by traditional culture and simply thus becoming dependent on the seed and on how to treat and about everything and simply having a monopoly over the whole system, and our domestic seeds are targeted and thus destroying in organic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I expect you to consider this amendment of mine and that in the vote, we will accept it, because it is evident that the HDZ Club has been exactly on this road, as we have spoken, opposition to GMO products, therefore, I see no reason why this amendment should not be accepted and that, finally and finally, we will meet and what all the counties have brought, opposition to GMO products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68487	Thank you, too. Next is the speaker, Mr. Sladolev. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bunjac. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Zeljko Lenart, he's got it and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68488	Thank you, dear Vice President. The debate on GMOs was supposed to be bigger and it took a long time, because I'm afraid we're discussing the topic today, when GMOs already entered a small door in the Republic, and by this law, we're just going to let that spread anyway. Whether it will be by a government regulation or some other way, but certainly there will be no votes by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, especially by HSS MPs. I'm worried about some things today, in the debate over this law. These are sentences, i.e. restrictions or bans in the whole area or part of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not reducing the value of a fellow secretary of state, who has to sit and listen to this today. Although he himself said he wasn't involved in making this bill. That tells us enough about the seriousness of the Ministry of Agriculture. On such important topics, I even think this is one of the most important topics for building the Republic of Croatia. I also remembered Professor Marian Jost. Professor Marijan Jošt was, therefore, a doctor of agronomy, a Croatian expert in agricultural genetics, plant processing and seminary. Mr. Marian is still the man most concerned with the influence of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia and I will quote one of his statements in the evening list, 14.11.2014 when Mr. Jost said this way "We swim in a cloudy situation in which no one knows or does anything, God forbid what happens to us in Argentina, which is a mass experiment for GMOs, which lasts for 15 years. where according to some studies, the percentage of cancer occurs 400% higher, compared to the pre-GMO period." The largest company mentioned today is Monsanto. Monsanto is registered in Zagreb at an address where no one ever exists, and according to the same article, it is stated that it actually works in Osijek and Novi Gareshnica. As far as it is said that there are no GMOs in the Republic of Croatia, let's remember there in 2003, when they were destroying quite large surfaces of GMO corn. I will not mention a major global company that is responsible for this, but no one has justly punished or banned the operation of that company in the Republic of Croatia. Soybean soybean planted in 2017 in the Republic of Croatia, which is certified as GMO free, and all of us who produce on our OPG strain, in order to get support, must bring a certificate, that the soy we sow is not GMO, that GMO is free. However, here is a colleague from the Ministry of Climate that is so, but my dear lady, some friends of mine who sowed such certified soybeans, Pioneer, had positive findings on the GMO-modified organism in the cause of silo. It is also likely to be known in the Ministry of Agriculture, but no one is doing anything. I believe that you have children who will have grandchildren, and unfortunately, what we laugh about today, will be our bitter pill in the future. I also participated in the development and decision-making of Sisak-Moslavina County when other counties decided on GMO free counties, I was also present in Turin at the Alpe-Adria conference on GMO free area. But I can see that with us it's just a declarative matter of trying to prove to our voters that we're against it, and then we're poisoning our own people at a small door, which is equally high treason. There is not yet enough research or they do not want to show themselves to the public about the harmfulness of GMOs, but once the GMOs enter nature, into our environment, when they cross over with other species, then we will understand what we have done. Dr. Jost said nicely here, so it's all one crazy endeavor against the far stronger, far more powerful in the world of globalisation. Unfortunately, that's how it is and unfortunately this law of ours still comes in favor of those powerful ones who are doing just that. There are still studies of GMOs on human health and life, but the environment can't be seen as harmful because those who can do it don't want them to show up. But what's not natural, and in this case it's playing God, mixing into a tomato of the fish gene, or now I don't know what, those who deal with genetics far more know about it is essentially a cross that happens in an unnatural way and happens without natural selection. The world grows on mutations, but they are subject to natural selection and nature to remove what is not good, and what is good is somehow missing. There is no such thing, here species are violently combined and ultimately consumed by the human race and the population of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear to all of us that in today’s world, man is the cheapest, cheapest slave because there are too many of us on the globe, and also these efforts obviously contribute to the reduction of that number. One study is that every other Croat has glyphosate in the urine, glyphosate is closely associated with GM organisms, meaning that they are there, that the influence of glyphosate, which is the main herbicide in the cultivation of such organisms, is present in the Republic of Croatia, although it is banned, but here is one such research showing that. Unfortunately, these cultures that are genetically modified have nothing more to offer than ordinary cultures. The whole story was about the control of the weeds or in the Americas of the corn moth that's been doing a lot of damage to us and that's why things like this have resorted to, and unfortunately, as Professor Jost says, Argentina has been a mass experiment now and 20 years, and so it's clearly proved how expensive the Argentinean population has paid for this experiment on GMOs. I believe that this law should be completed, that EU regulations are not the Holy Scriptures and that even though we are small to try to fight back. Some will say here are pesticides, they are also harmful, truth and most of us agricultural producers use pesticides, but for pesticides there is an alternative organic production not using pesticides and you have a choice you can make. However, when GMOs enter nature, when they cross with seeds produced by the Institute of Osijek that does not have GM seeds, they will not be able to say that their seeds are GMOs free because Monsanto will come and will tell the dear gentlemen here in your soybean seed we have found our gene that they passed on whether insects or wind or something else in flowering and fertilisation and at that point will either be a lawsuit to the Osijek Institute for their products and will have to stop producing them or we will no longer be able to choose these seeds produced by our institutes. In this way, we'll destroy this little bit of seeding and this institute that's raised itself, it's also... the Institute, so we have our own seed goods, we have what to produce, we've even exported them to a lot of countries and other continents, but here today we are prone to some petty interests, because of some people who are going to take money to sell future generations and turn them into God and ask what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68489	Thank you, too. And finally the closing word State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. Despite this whole series of discussions that I had to listen to where was said and touched from the Book of Genesis to fusion, fission and other things in modern times, I would just have to refer to that attitude of yours and ours if I hadn't been involved in writing this law. I repeat that again, I did not participate in writing this law because the first law was written in 2005, and you, if you were in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should know that. And this European directive really did not take part in the creation of the European Directive in 2015. What I participated in, which was only at the level of the ministry, is the law passed by the ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, accepts the Croatian Parliament. I have contributed as Secretary of State to the creation and creation and implementation of this Directive of Europe in our existing legal framework. So that any meaningful differences in the future, we can distinguish and that doesn't come down to personal, sort of, I'd say regulations, which we don't have any foothold in, I'd say, in a normal way of communicating with each other. Very often or most often, every man should only and exclusively discuss with arguments. So let me just have one of the arguments, which is that of the EU Directive of 412 2015. in its proposals, the provisions given to Member States, the possibility to request an exemption for 9 lives or events or certain plants for the period from 2.4.2015 to 9.10.2015. That's what Croatia used, and on that basis is 2016. published decision, which excludes Croatian territory from the possible cultivation of a GMO-modified organism, which is the only one approved for cultivation in Europe, which is Monsanto 810. We have excluded it and we cannot and will not grow that GMO corn in the fields of Croatia. All others are also excluded, therefore, at this moment, what is most important, Croatia is genetically modified by organisms, an exceptional country by cultivation, and we need to know that. Whether we will continue to be, it depends on the tools that we, as a member of the EU, will include in our legislation and on this basis, ask that if the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian governments so decide in the future, we exempt the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia from the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. This is our future, and we have tools through this directive that we must implement in our law. And that it would be valid and that we would have enough legal weapons so that we could exclude ourselves for genetically modified organisms in breeding. I repeat in breeding. Why do I keep saying that? Because the whole discussion here, where I have seen the very way of these clever and wise Bible quotations, is likely that these people have not read the entire Bible, for if they were not doing so, we use only where we need it. And where we don't need it, then we don't use it. We today have genetically modified organisms, mostly in medicine and science. The entire virusology is based on genetic modification of viral strains. The whole bacteriology is based on genetically modified bacteria. All transporters of bioactive drugs are based on genetically modified carriers, etc., etc. I don't want to pick that up now. Vaccines like that are genetically modified organisms. If we're going to ban it, you're going to say, we're not going to use biological drugs anymore in our patients in the Republic of Croatia, because these are drugs that were made on the basis of genetically modified organisms. I'm just asking you... Will you forbid it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because these are the same genetically modified organisms, which must somehow be covered by this law. So it's not all that simple and populist to pull on some kind of, no Mr. Bunjca, he's a first-class populist, I'd say, to discuss it with him a little bit, but I think this is very important. To know that we and the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Health and all the ministries of the Republic of Croatia are against the genetic cultivation of any modified culture. It's our attitude, like the states. And we can't discuss it anymore. That's the government's position, and I believe the whole of this House. So it's our universal, and that's where we have to be unique. And we can't right now, I'd say bid on some things that we might have at some point like this, and maybe at some point like that. Besides, you say you came from Sisak Moslavina County, if I'm not mistaken, and in 2014 as far as I know, you had an incident with the contamination of your fields in that same county, but we're not gonna talk about that now. But I think it's best if I finish this, otherwise everything else would be, I mean counterproductive, because I say this is a tool that we can get across Europe to protect our area from genetically modified cultivation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68491	Thank you, too. Mr. Plazonic, you have one replica, but first of all, I want to say that the rules of parliamentaryism, you can sit down, the rules of parliamentaryism, say that MPs can be harsh, can quote Bible quotations, can also be populists, and unfortunately, a representative of the government, can only answer a question. It is such parliamentaryism that it consists of, and unfortunately by the rules of parliamentaryism, you cannot answer in the same way to the representatives of the people, who have been chosen by the people. That's right. Mr. Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68492	My fellow Secretary of State, I said I understood you, because I was also a secretary of state and often in your position, this is how I had to listen, and I couldn't go back. You didn't listen to me very well what I said. I know very well, with a lot more contamination than you know. Because a lot of people pretend it's not there. But if these real cases were obtained from silos, about last year's soy, which is declared GMO free, it's not Croatian production, you'd be surprised how many findings are positive for GMOs. And I know that from cases that have 100% sown the declared soybean of Pioneers, I'll name it but, unfortunately, it happens. I also know about contamination in Sisak Moslavina, Brod Posavia and many other places. However, we all need to be concerned. And the law is always written so wide when there has to be something to miss, it has to be big and with lots of pages, it's clear to us all. We are not little children, there are millions of laws, which are written in Croatia, unrelated to this topic, so there were miracles of privatisation and so on. It's also going to happen here. We can't stop it from you or me or any of us. I quoted one sentence, Professor Jost, that unfortunately it is a struggle with the great and powerful like David and Goliath and even bigger than Goliath, because it is the interest of globalisation, and as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is declared against the cultivation of GMOs in Croatia. I'll tell you one thing, unfortunately it's very short, it doesn't apply to you, but who's going to admit that he's a son of a bitch, forgive the expression, but I think that's very good. It doesn't apply to the Secretary of State or anyone here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68493	Okay. I'm glad to conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68494	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was filed by MP Miro Bulj. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, the Honorable Željko Plazonić to show about the amendment, we have two amendments, so let's start with the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68495	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The proposed amendment is not accepted. In an explanation, amendment number one is not accepted because it is contrary to the provisions of Directive 209/41 E.Z. The European Parliament and the Council of 6 May 2009 on the limited use of GMOs and Directives 201/18 Z and 18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs which repeals Council Directive 90/220 E.Z. Commission Regulation (EC) No 1606/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 establishing a European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (EC) No 1088/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2006, p. 1). This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Can we move on to the second amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68496	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68497	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment would introduce a complete ban on cultivation, imports and placing on the market of GMOs throughout the Republic of Croatia and for the protection of human health and the conservation of organic production throughout the Republic of Croatia. This is especially what I am saying that the Republic of Croatia has considerable potential for traditional food production. If you do not accept this amendment, regardless of the EU directive, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be the test rabbits or mice of foreign GMO producers because we have here, according to this law proposed, import into Croatia into the market is enabled. I ask you not to be Croats test rabbits or Monsanto or other large companies promoting GMO production. Fellow representatives, the Croatian state has the possibility to deal with agriculture, organic production for the purpose of health and protection of our people. And agricultural promotions mainly of our OPGs, this way by importing shelves will be filled with cheap GMO food that is questionable. Let's not let your children be test rabbits and test mice. We don't have the right of fellow MPs, regardless of any directive by any clerk. Any corporation, her name was Monsanto or whatever. Please support this amendment for future generations, for the sake of your health, your children. We have opportunities, we have a traditional way of processing our land that we need to improve, allow the peasant to produce domestic food and not foreign GMO products because this law does not allow it. Once again, please, fellow MPs, let's not let this happen to our children and to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68498	Thank you. We are now going to vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment Two.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68499	Amendment number two is also not accepted. In an explanation, amendment number two is not accepted because, contrary to the provision of Article 22 of the EU Directive 2001/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment which repeals Council Directive 90/20 of the provisions of Regulation 1829/2003, which regulates the placing on the market of GMOs, GMOs again by EU Regulation 1946/2003 on cross-border transmission of GMOs and contrary to the provisions of Articles 34, 36 and 216 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68500	Thank you. Buddy Bull, the obvious, do you want it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68501	Thank you very much. Fellow MPs, I ask you not to let it appear on the market to disable the import of GMOs. We have spaces, here in my Sinj field alone, healthy organic food can be produced, in Neretva, in Slavonia. We can also produce our peasant. By allowing imports into the Republic of Croatia and placing on the market GMOs, we are really trying rabbits. It'll be cheap food. Turns out we're just gonna be test rabbits. I repeat the same, please support this amendment when you are not the first. We prohibit the import of food and the placing on the market of GMO products. We're running out of traditional value. We currently have 750,000 hectares of abandoned agricultural land in Croatia. We allow the peasants and the OPGs to process it and our children to eat healthy food, our food in our schools in our kindergartens, in our hospitals, in our institutions. This is how we're gonna be flooded by GMOs. Let us not once again call upon the officials of Brussels to write to us laws that work in the interest of corporations such as Monsanto. That they sell their products and their seeds to us on our markets. And the results, health, will be catastrophic, we'll ruin the traditional production of these seeds and that's the interest, protect our domestic production and ban GMO imports and be on the market, and most of all... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68502	We are voting again on an amendment that does not have the support of the government. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 90 for, 3 abstentions and 16 votes against, have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms. We are now going to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Bunjac, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I ask my colleague, Tušek, president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68504	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 34th session held on 18 January 2018 the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks from Zagreb, Jadranska banka d.d. Sibenik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against the doctor of science Branimir Bunjc, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of the libel in the article... point (a) is replaced by the following: Penalty law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr Bunjac is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 76(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated, nor a criminal procedure can be conducted. The commission took note of a private suit brought against Branimir Bunjc for which it was requested to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, and found that it was his expressed opinion in the Croatian Parliament at the meeting held on 22 November 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribed that a representative cannot be called on to be held, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament The Committee considers that the request is unfounded. In particular, it is a case of immunity which protects a representative from criminal liability for acts that he commits as a representative within the representative body. The Commission shall act on the basis of Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 166 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes for the Croatian Parliament proposes a conclusion. Request for approval, for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the doctor of science Branimir Bunjca, on the private lawsuit of the attorneys of private prosecutors of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks from Zagreb, Jadranska banka d.d. Sibenik, which was filed on 30 November 2017, was established on the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. The explanation actually stems from all of what we've said. So it's about the established opinion of representatives in the Croatian Parliament here at the session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68505	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No one answered. I am voting on the proposal for the following conclusion: Application for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Branimir Bunjc after the private lawsuit of the attorneys of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks from Zagreb and the Adriatic Bank d.d. Sibenik, which was filed on 30 November 2017 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb under the number K1852/17 for the offence of the slander referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. The Penal Code shall be based on Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is unfounded. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, a conclusion has been reached as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. - The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Report on the request for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Nikola Grumoje of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68507	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 35th session held on 15 February 2018, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament of the Prosecutor Željko Lacković of Đurđevec discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor from Đurđevec to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Nikola GRmoje in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(2) in respect of paragraph 1. Penalty law. Nikola Grmoja is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of five votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following decision: "During the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Nikola Grumoja shall be withheld at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Željko Lacković of Đurđevec on 7 February 2018 for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(2) in respect of paragraph 1. Penalty law. The Commission took the principle that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office, an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences should be proposed to the Croatian Assembly to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings. In order to enable the Constitution and the Law on Self... to exercise judicial authority, however, in the case of private prosecutors, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament to deny authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings as has been done so so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68508	We've got three agents reporting for a hearing. First up, he's a respected colleague of Lackovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68509	I thank the President of the Parliament. So this is a good opportunity to see for ourselves what we are doing by adopting and adopting these proposals of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on our own and how this is reflected later in political life and in political speech. So in a particular situation, we have a proposal to reject a motion to remove immunity for a crime of insult to honor that didn't happen here in the Parliament. Is how it happened here in the Parliament then it would be completely excluded from criminal persecution but could be replicated on such allegations and such charges, so we would be in a certain same position. On the other hand, this tall body and the commission gave a positive view of removing immunity for the shield that was created on a construction facility for the written parole of all thousand kunas. Now I will try to draw you one conclusion that in fact the cheek of a Croatian citizen is not worth a thousand kunas, one more expensive shoe that you can buy down there because you cannot wash yourself but before the Croatian court and according to Croatian laws. And I therefore appeal to change the practice of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to get its space and protection from Croatian courts and Croatian laws where hate speech and disqualification speech are used. Why is that? For a very simple reason, because by swearing here as parliamentary representatives, we have said that we will respect both the Constitution and the law and the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and therefore I think that the only place in which honor can be defended is not those thousand kunas as we had here earlier the case where the Croatian Parliament is a Croatian court and therefore I ask you to support the removal of the immunity of colleagues to Grmoji. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68510	The second is my colleague Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68511	I'd like to say that as a member of the board of directors, I'm now on behalf of the club... So I have to argue with you ladies and gentlemen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would like to say that I had the opportunity to see a proposal to approve the prosecution and what's interesting is that the Greek representative did not say that Zeljko Lackovic was corrupt. He said there were people in the DSV who were corrupt and Zeljko Lackovic recognized himself in it. He saw you do that. He estimated that the remarks of his colleagues to Grumoje applied to him and that is very indicative. And actually his lawsuit speaks more than Nikola Grumoje's words about everything. And I think this lawsuit is actually in some way an act of recognition by Mr. Lackovic. And why is that? Why? Well, he explained Mr. Grmoy when he talked about it, that this parliamentary majority, depending on Milan Bandic, and that Milan Bandic has a lot of charges against himself. And that all the processes against him tap in the dark, stand in place, that the DORH makes the To God's random failures etc. And Zeljko Lackovic is the extended hand of Milan Bandic in the Parliament and accordingly behaves accordingly. He's holding the ruling majority at the moment. Is this ruling majority in the interest of the Croatian people, is the policy it implements in the interest, in general, of Croatian citizens? I don't think so. I think it's in the interest of certain interesting let's say communities, certain groups and certain individuals. And what he's trying to say, i.e. What Mr. Lackovic is trying to say, he claims there is no corruption in the DSV. Ha, ladies and gentlemen, look at the moaning in the judiciary, what judgments are passed and how the judges judge. It's a key thing. If the situation in the judiciary were satisfactory, that the verdicts do not express the abject and dissuasion of the public, then Mr. Lackovic could, with full right, say, Mr. Grumoja, why you say there are corruption or corrupt individuals in the DSV. But it reminds me of the trial and that judge from the sea, Roglic, if I'm not mistaken, who said, and there's corruption in his court, and that's why he's convicted. You just can't say it. But what's even scarier, you'll say Mr. Pernar, there's no rightful verdict, it's a standard phrase. And you know what happened? Do you remember that journalist, Mislav Šimatovic, who is the deputy editor of the Evening List? Remember what happened to him? He was convicted as editor-in-chief that there was an article in National who was saying that there was a man from the Kvarners there that he was a criminal. Vullnet Sedolly, that's the name of the man, Vullnet Sedolly, and he was accused, i.e. Condemned that he was guilty because he wrote it, i.e. He was an editor at the time that it was written. And later, the court, the second ruled that Vullnet Sedolli was a criminal, convicted him. This Vullnet Sedolli has filed constitutional charges and lost. And what happened? On the one hand, the court made a decision punishing him with a million kuna, ultimately because he wrote, because he wrote in Nacional that Vullnet Sedolli was a criminal, and on the other hand, the other court made a decision later, where Vulnet Sedollia really declared a criminal. And then the journalist went to explain that he was asking that this process in which he was convicted be annulled, that the verdict be changed, because this man is indeed a criminal, legally determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68512	He's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68513	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68514	I'm asking you to stick to the subject, this has nothing to do with removing the immunity of a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68515	It's because it's about freedom of speech. And simply every expression of opinion, which is not in the interest of the ruling class, is punished and sanctioned. Here's an example of one. In the case of Jezic, the son of this tycoon, sues me for saying that the killer is sisters if I'm not mistaken Filipovic. Okay, you'll say, Mr. Pernar, you slandered him, right, if the court so decides. You're obliged to pay for that sentence, compensation. I say okay. But at the same time the father of that young man, who said he took 5m euros in bribes for Sanader, and that he would return to court, not to return them, does not have to return 5m euros. Why doesn't he have to pay back 5 million euros?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68516	Comrade Pernar, I ask you to stick to the subject, or you will have to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68517	Mr. Jandrokovic, the situation in the judiciary is a disaster Anyone who talks about it, anyone who says corruption is being persecuted. [[President: But it's not a topic.]] That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68518	Please. We have one replica, a respected colleague of Glasnovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68519	... Now it's working. [[Specially enabled.]] There's a lot we don't agree on, you'd say for a while this is true, like this. You have one sentence, which one said, I think Olvar said, says at the time of deception, the speech of truth becomes a revolutionary act, it happens here, it happens here. They're ironing all over me from the media, I'm getting phone calls at 3:00 in the morning, and Glasovic is going to be 2 meters underground, okay. I got into public life, I don't care. Let him come to... The way he shaves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a problem. You've got other heads, and he's proposing me for art, I haven't called anyone here by name. And it's not my fault that those hostages of their past, who were shoemen, who worked for UDBA, who ratted out the students, who stole the money and other things, who were in the tattoo, who took the apartments, who transferred the money to the bank accounts outside. I'm not for that privatisation and conversion, which they hide like a snake's feet. And now for me. When we talk about the media, about the slander, where the MPs were offended, when they spat on the man, just because he's a Catholic who's from the BIH. And now he's been released on all these convictions, it's... The media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shuts down HDZ... When they write, you don't want bandits, thieves, crooks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My kids are friends at school, what about Mia Black, who's talking about him? And not that it's not interested in heads, it's got this rope and just obedience, etc. Like the bell ringing up. And these, if I can't sleep at night, which are snitches, selling sex exams at college, that's their problem and I'm gonna tell the truth whatever it is and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68520	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68521	Mr. Glasnović, you know what's interesting here? It's interesting here, as Mr. Lackovic claims next, that he sued because he had no chance of replicating claims that he was wet in crime. And here I am, speaking from the pay phone, and I said Mr. Lackovic, so you recognized yourself as having something to do with the crime. Because Mr. Grumoya didn't say you're a criminal, but that there are people in the DSV who are incarcerated in crime and he recognized himself in this issue. He didn't answer and replicated me. He could have. He can now raise his hand and say Mr. Pernar you're wrong, I'm an honest man and so, but he doesn't do that which means that the goal is exclusively demagogue nature and creating a farce and actually suppressing freedom of speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68522	Second replica, dear colleague Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68523	I thank the President of the Parliament. So, colleague Pernar, I would never enter your honor and reputation, I would never judge by your actions. As you know here when you were misunderstood, I'm the first one to stand by you. When you hurt the honor and reputation of many defenders there before the column of memory in Vukovar, when you walked with me, you asked me if you could be with me that day in society. When I and you put up with the spit on you, but also for me as a parliamentary representative, we were together all day. And I have not objected to your honor and reputation. What you're using, I even think you're not that bad, because you know or I suppose you should know that I'm an honest and responsible man. And that's exactly why I want Mr. Grmoya to say who he is who's in the hole in crime as you say, when he says the State Judiciary Council is the source of corruption. We cannot have corrupt people choosing judges, and it alludes very clearly to me as someone who participated in the elections together with Milan Bandic. So that's what you do when their representative comes out of the State Judiciary Council, and I get into it. I ask you now and in your replica, don't waste your time insulting me, because it doesn't seem like a parliamentary representative to you, regardless of all the publicity you've gained by insulting, Satanizing political insolence. You can have your world, I have my world. When you think I did something illegal, you'll have the right to sue me for everything I've done or said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68524	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68525	Mr. Lackovic, I'm not accusing you. I don't suggest, I wouldn't even be arguing about you if you hadn't found yourself in what Mr. Grmoy wrote, i.e. I said. I've never seen Mr. Grumoy say you're in the middle of corruption. He said that corrupt people can't make decisions in the DSV. And you said it yourself, he means me. So, Mr. Lackovic, you're actually incriminating yourself. If you hadn't sued Mr. Grumoy for it, if you hadn't found yourself in the description of a corrupt person, would I be here discussing it with you right now? I'm sure he wouldn't. So what I'm doing right now is the direct consequence of what you've done. And to say that there are corrupt people in the Croatian Parliament who hate Croatia. Well I wouldn't say people I've found myself in that description, I'm going to sue because I think I'm not corrupt and I'm not working against Croatia. But when Mr. Grmoya said that I couldn't have corrupt people in DSV making decisions about judges, you said it was me, it's me. And then you say Mr. Pernar why you're giving it to me. He means me. And Mr. Lackovic, at least be smarter next time. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68526	We're going to the third club of MPs. It is a respected counterpart from the Most Independent Lists and one part of the discussion he, another part of his colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68527	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This interview my colleague Lackovic sued me for, so it's an interview on November 11th 2017 in the Morning List. The day before that, the day before my interview, there was a judicial scandal involving the State Judiciary Council. So here's 10.11. journalist Slavica Lukic for the Jutarnji list says she applied for Judge of the Civil Court. He was called a criminal court by mistake. And that interview was after what happened, and that interview was also after SOA said in its report that 20 judges were directly threatened with national security. So that's not what I said, that's what SOA said. Who picks judges? The State Judiciary Council. Who promoted that judge? The State Judiciary Council. And for my colleague Lackovic, I said this. We should definitely go into law changes. Our minister, Sprlje, too, had prepared a set of laws, and one of them was the obligation to publish the property cards of judges, which is a step in the right direction. But the key is in the DSV and there is a key point in all the problems of the Croatian judiciary. We now have a situation in which the DSV is represented by representative Milan Bandic Zeljko Lackovic, and we know on what charges Bandic is on, and that is quite inappropriate. I don't see anything controversial here and I don't know why Agent Lackovic felt called, but I don't think this is his intensity and that he didn't go into this on his own. To me, Vladimir Shakespeare has announced bitter moments. I have information and it will likely happen that after the lawsuit of Mr. Željko Lackovic, representative Milan Bandic in the Croatian Parliament, part of the judges from the DSV will go against me, and we all know that judges are hard to lose, meaning those claims for damages. I'll be welcomed by these lawsuits, I won't be forever, they won't take me out of the Croatian Parliament. And I'm ready, so it'll be somewhere, so they're estimates up to a million kunas. I'm willing to pay that bet for a better judiciary, for a more just judiciary. So, I'm willing to bear the consequences of these lawsuits, and the entire Croatian public knows the state of the Croatian judiciary, and the biggest responsibility is just the people sitting in the State Judiciary Council, which is the fact that I am behind it, I am not running away from it, and I am willing to take responsibility for what I said in that interview. And I won't back down even a millimeter because all the children in Croatia, all those young people who leave Croatia right now expect from us parliamentary representatives to fight for better Croatia, and better Croatia without better quality and fairer justice there is no better. And in this direction, Most has referred two legislative proposals to the procedure, it's the DSV Act and the Courts Act, where we're looking for the publication of property cards of judges, we're looking for a security assessment of the candidates for judges, and we're also looking for live transmissions of talks with candidates. And when we have that in the Croatian judiciary, then perhaps the situation in the election of judges will be better for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68528	Come on in, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68529	My colleagues and colleagues. You know who's going to judge the Nikola Grumoji? Those who appoint DSV mean a pre-disputed dispute. It is not anywhere but in Croatia, anywhere but in Croatia to be sued by those who name judges, and the main problem of the Croatian state is the judiciary, both the state's attorney's office and the courts. Let the people hear and let them know that the members of the DSV who name these people, and we all know the actions that the courts lead to are corrupt at local levels, let's remember recently the syncope in Sibenik, let's remember a number of other cases. It's not just in the courts, it's from the Constitutional Court and everything my colleague Grumoja said was right. I was in a case like him when our former colleague Tomislav Karamarko filed a criminal charges against me. I asked you colleagues to vote freely against me, I begged you. Is someone supposed to answer in this country that for all the crime that has taken place, is the fact that we lost our arbitration to INA because Croatia had no conviction for this crime and that national high treason. But it won't be Sanader's answer, it won't be Linic's answer, those who gave the White Night no one answered. Of course Nikola Grmoya is the problem in the DSV that appoints judges. Here's the most corrupt proposal that happened in the Republic of Croatia. Those who name Judge Thadi sued you when you were tried, so that never happened. You're a colleague of the bush here for the first time in this way exposed, I know you're brave, I know you'll be convicted of what you're being sued for. But the fact that they don't treat Emil Tedeschi like that, who took the money, never brought him back to Sinj for arms. We have defended the Goloruki for such characters who now welcome Vukic, of course, the Serbian president who should first come kneeling in the Clay and then talk to those people. But it's all the same, it's the same process as my colleague Grumoja, I know you're brave, I know these will condemn you, but hold on, and I think this is the most embarrassing lawsuit that happened in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68530	Let's get to the replicas, let's get to the line. First up, he's a colleague of Lackovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68531	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a colleague Pernar's answer, not a colleague of Grumoja said he wasn't thinking about me, but you see that he was thinking about me, and that's coming out of the article that you read would have seen him. On the other hand, I also know that my colleague Grumoja well knows that I am an independent substitute for Mr Bandic with preferential votes, but that I will not be with them in their basket, so they are then trying to differentiate me as best they can. Among other things, I was thus declared Minister of Justice and I don't know as soon as possible, targeted to harm my reputation and honor. On the other hand, I know that my colleague does not recognise the institutions because he does not recognise the Public Bookmark Chamber that you could declare as the source of political corruption when you prostituted and wrote and publicly waved with a certified statement that you would neither be with HDZ nor SDP, so you supported HDZ twice afterwards. You also waved that 10 thousand kunas was enough pay for a parliamentary representative, I said that you would suggest it because it was for your incomes in which you were really decent pay back then. Today, 20 grand is obviously not enough for you, but be sure you won't be spending any of your lawsuits because none of your colleagues will... The morning paper for the release of the correction of this information because it did not want to publish the role of DSV itself as President Saric asked for it in the paper. Compared to my colleague Bulja, I must say that a man must have and not only a clear war route but also a life course to moralize this from a pay phone to anyone else. So you got from the state to a certain apartment amongst other things, so you sold that apartment for far greater money, and now you're moralizing what it's going to be. and how the judiciary will react. [[Intruder President: Time fellow Lackovic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68532	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68533	My colleague Milana, I see you've been upset, it's clear to me that you've been attacking the honorable Croatian defender Mira Bulj, and the rest of what you've been saying, well, Miro, calm down, I have no intention of commenting on this other thing. We took responsibility twice because of the principle because we didn't want to prostitute how you're prostitutes now. We have given up our position twice, and no one in Croatia's history has done it, and you are doing it and you have now admitted it. He said we were prostitutes. I have the right to answer. Calm down, colleagues from HDZ. Calm down! Well, you don't always have to defend Milan Bandic. Calm down, slow down! Calm down. So, as far as responsibility is concerned, we took it. You now hold the ladder to this and this government, that's a fact. We didn't want to, we left our positions twice, and what you're doing for DSV judges, if you think it's an honor, then I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68534	Please colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to choose words when you are talking to each other to be at a certain level. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68535	Col. Grumo, the article “Croatia received a constitutional judge who was falsely represented.” It is about the judge of the Constitutional Court Mr. Mlakar. He says, along with Josip Vresk, a member of the DIP and Daniel Ropus, an HSS from Novalja in March 2014, he was invited to the Central Hypo Bank in Klagenfurt. There, all three were to explain why they received from the bank each under EUR 210 000, etc. etc. So, we came to a bank that seemed to be tragically empty. It seemed a little awkward at first, and they asked us to sign up on the counter. We said we didn't have the papers on us because we left them in the car. I introduced myself as Goran Dolovic, Mlakar Hrt told journalist Drazen Majic. So the Constitutional Court judge in Croatia admits that he was falsely representing himself and says, according to the minutes of that meeting, that the Mlakar was ready to influence the proceedings under way in favour of Hypo Bank, and this was done in the case of Simuni, Expandes and Slavonska Banka. Can you imagine? The young man admits to taking part in the meeting. After a month of their return, Mlakar and Ropus came to Klagenfurt. They were detained at a police station where police confronted them with a statement by Austrian entrepreneur Alex Kropyuning that he paid them a total of 630,000 euros in three times to solve some land re-use, etc. etc. His story was confirmed by one of three indictees, Daniel Ropus, said in a police report. Ladies and gentlemen, so we don't have any crime, we have crime at the highest court level. And instead of clearing it up, instead of judging Mr. Mlakar, he's asking Mr. Lackovic to be tried by Niko Grmoji. Well, that's a shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68536	We're not here to decide who's going to be tried, there are competent state bodies. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68537	Comrade Pernar, here I am thanking you for your support, and as far as Mlakar is concerned, he is only one of the examples of what condition, so the Constitutional Court is also in what state our judiciary is. And after all these charges went public, HRT contributed, so on it, the media wrote. He remains that man is a candidate and here he was voted by synergy of one HDZ and SDP and we voted against it and that is what is worst after one shameful political trade happened that the man who falsely represented himself, who participated in the affair, was elected to one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And it's all about our judiciary, and Milan Bandic and the rest of them are going to sue me freely. I said I was willing to pay that bet for a better and fairer judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68538	Third replica, respected counterpart Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68539	Dear colleagues, this is a welcome debate, very welcome. Here's me handing over a question about these last speakers. I handed over the form a week and a half ago, begging there when I was saying you were talking slowly. Like this, I gave up. Please give me back some time. I handed over this form of lustration for the judiciary 4... in the Parliament and Office of the President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it says there, for example, that the origin of the property must be checked and false representation punished. I didn't get an answer from that, and I think we all know what it's like, that we've entered from one-party kleptocracy into the crown of capitalism, and that's what we're looking at today. It's not a question of slander here. We've got other problems. What about security checks? Why are my phones listening? Why are they following me in those cheap damages up there? Am I a threat to national security? Well, I see them. They're pure amateurs. Do you need the Supreme Court's approval first head of SOA, not this one now, that one. SOA approves of monitoring and then the Supreme Court confirms it. Seven months can be followed. Because my mother died 90 years ago, was she a threat to national security, not these former foster parents, klectocrats, etc. That's our problem. And when are we going to, free of code. If we prescribe the Code of Honor, there is more honor in the federal prison in America than in Croatian politics. So what do we get? It's the same cough again. Where's the Property Origin Act? Where's the law on former informants? It's called lustration, and lustration is true. And that's taboo theme in Croatian media. It's been suspended on HRT, the Bureau of Investigative Reporting has been suspended. What do we got? They just throw out the same floscules, and they demonize their heads like Glasovic because he's telling the truth. Bujrum!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68540	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68541	Dear fellow Glasnović, I think from these events in the Croatian Parliament in recent days it is clear to you what is going on here. You've been attacking both left and right all along the UDBA wing, so you've been expressing yourself. But I think this right here is much more dangerous, we've seen this recently in the vote on the law, the bill on archives. Here I congratulate the HDZ representative, Davor Ivo Stier, who was exempt from voting in the HDZ proposal closing archives. And if you start to step on them even more, they won't follow you just in cheap damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68542	Now we're going to the replicas of our respected colleague Bull. First up, fellow Alexic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68543	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, I will not prejudge, and I will not say how corrupt the judges are. But since our society is corrupt, there must be corrupt people among the judges. It's a mathematical rule. It's impossible it's not like that. So what am I saying? I'll give you an example. I'll give you one example. In 2015, a whole series of misdemeanor proceedings against banks were launched, and the Criminal Courts began to fine between 80,000 and 150 000 kuna of criminal penalties to banks that did not agree with debtors the parameters for changing the interest rate. What happens after that? In October 2016, the High Infringement Court referred to the infringements of the courts not to impose criminal penalties on banks if the banks voluntarily, unilaterally and outside the contractually defined those parameters and notified the debtors thereof. This way of reacting to the High Violent Court is trampling Croatian rights, treading in mud and mud. Why? Because Roman law, which is 2,000 years old, prohibits the unilaterally arbitrary out-of-contract activity of any contracting entity. The High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court have found that banks have unlawfully defined interest rates, but the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court have also found that banks are not allowed to behave in either future or otherwise. But what's going on? The banks continue to behave this way, and the High Court of Violent Court orders the courts that if the banks act unlawfully, it is not an offence. What's that? Any sign of corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68544	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68545	Thank you very much. A fellow Alexic, of course, is a problem for people like you, like Nikola Grumoja. Those who warn about these corruptions that occur in society and of course that fellow Lackovic will talk about my war route that I was five years in the Homeland War and 13 more as a professional soldier, that you have my war route. You and your boss Bandic would be in the United Nations, and you listen as a listener to what your colleague Alexic says about what's happening in Croatian society, about how the face bears within the judiciary that don't have Mr Lackovic or the property card, or what your colleague Alexic says, and they don't care about poverty. They're working for the interest groups and everything my colleague Grumo said was right. And about my war route you're talking about. You have nothing to do with my warpath, nor do you have any connection with me. That's what the ones I was in the trench with know. List who you were in the trench with except for the Bandic's errand boy and the extended arm. You're nothing else. While fellow Alexic is sued in this way by the same ones who judge in Croatia will always be the poor one who will suffer, and the rich will be managed by certain people for a little prosciutto and oxes. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bulj, let's not be offended.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68546	Please don't make personal insults. It says in the Rules of Procedure that there is a reason for the warning and I ask you not to make personal insults. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68547	Thank you very much, President. Well, in this present strange atmosphere, a whole series of questions have been raised through these replicas where I wouldn't feel comfortable if I left the assembly without saying something about the topic and as president of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and as a politician, as a Social Democrats, and as a member of the party that I consider to be a single joint venture completely unethical, immoral, so I'm going to say criminally. On the trail of what's been said exactly about corruption in the judiciary. So there is no greater problem at this time for Croatian society than corrupt judges and corrupt justice. The items last for years, they go to antiquity of Sanader, Fimimedia, Kalmeta and of course Milan Bandic. Our colleagues and colleagues, Milan Bandić and his closest associates Ljubic, are laughing at our judges. So, they report the money that was carried in black bags, which were nowhere, they're not registered anywhere, and they're racketeering one party, they get 10 million kunas, they've washed the money, and, of course, you all of you in HDZ are holding back and keeping it. Because your coalition rests on the political corruption in which Milan Bandic holds the balls of you at HDZ, judge as the State Judicial Council and that is why Croatia is here today di di. That is why on February 21st, when a new corruption perception index is published, it will fall for several more places because of the government, because of the majority that rests on the judicial cornerstone of the foundations held by Milan Bandic and which, with its behaviour, further leads to the fact that citizens' confidence in the judiciary will be even less in politics. And everything my colleagues said to Grumoy and Bull is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68548	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure prior to the reply to the replica. Comrade Lackovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68549	So, President-in-Office of the Parliament, you see that this has nothing to do with removing immunity, that the debate is not being held at all in this regard. So this is bush marketing. Tomorrow he'll tell you what two and two are, so he announces other things. Everyone found the need to use it on my desire to defend my face before the Croatian court, all afraid of it as if it were the Spanish Inquisition. If you were honest, you'd say who you were thinking about, and then we'd settle it right now. But these discussions that were being held here absolutely don't and I reject any...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68550	Comrade Lackovic, just a minute. So you didn't say which article was injured. That's why you've already hurt the Rules of Procedure. But okay, please like this. My colleagues and colleagues, Wait a minute. [[Intruder Lackovic: So here among other things were the insults to my name.]] Let's stop now, please! So they're used to discussing inappropriate words. Wait a minute! Wait a minute! I would ask you first the topic is sensitive and personal and please let us choose the words and the way we speak. So, I'm not going to do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, because there's been a lot of things that have been said so far, and it can be understood under the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to slowly bring this debate to an end and that those who will participate further in the debate do not go with insults to colleagues and fellow MPs. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68551	A colleague of Jovanovic, it is clear that the Croatian judiciary is the biggest problem of Croatian society and one of the main, i.e. The main and key cause and the fact that investors and investments don't come to us because we're not a legally regulated state. That's familiar. And the only people who suffer are Croatian citizens, especially poor people. That's why we have two-thirds of Croatia empty. And of course certain Pharaohs within these structures that are protected as face bears because you and I as Parliament's representative must give your property cards, and judges, the State Judiciary Council, the Supreme Court does not. They don't have to. They were excluded. And of course politics sets them up. That's why he's being tried, sued and tried by his colleague Grumoya at the moment. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68552	Comrade Pernar, just a minute, please! Comrade Pernar, you've been warned. You do this one more time, you're flying out. What kind of behavior is that? ... So what kind of behavior is that? [[You can't hear it, you can't hear it.]] What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? [[So stop them.]] You won't behave like that in the assembly room. One more time, I'll have my colleague Pernar call the guards. [[Intruder Bull: Warn them they are guilty.]] That's not how you're gonna behave. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68553	I believe that a colleague, Mr. President, is indeed a great passion and, of course, MPs are opposed to it, so I would like to ask you to warn here just to make some peace in the courtroom, in Parliament. But this has become a courtroom, because those who name judges are the ones who sue Mr. Bolt, so we can call this a courtroom part of it because these people are obviously so powerful. I agree with this all that's been said and I agree that it's politically mounted judges. It is simply in this case that Grmoya is for the first time in this way that whoever sues him and judges him and, of course, Nikola Grmoya will be one of those who loses the case because they are the interesting lobbys in which the prosecutor is involved all the time and the hand of all those people you talk about has been extended. And of course we all know he's the replacement for Mr. Milan Bandic and of course he has to do the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68554	Thank you. We're going to the last line of the esteemed fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68555	The Assembly isn't just a legislative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68556	Excuse me, colleague Stazic, we have a violation of Djakic's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68557	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I must warn you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament in Article 230. You allowed it, you placed in the agenda a single application from Mr. Ivan Pernar who failed to fill out the application and delivered it to your desk. You also allowed others to get involved in a debate that failed to fill out their applications and delivered it to your desk. Therefore, I ask you to cross this and consider it invalid because you are violating the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68558	I have to admit, my colleague Djakic is right. I let you all sign up without a application, and now it's all over my head, because I thought the debate would go in some normal direction, so I'm giving myself a warning here. But really please, this stops being a normal debate now. This goes to a personal account between the MPs now, so I'd like to invite you to settle down, though, because we have an important point. We must vote on members and members of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, so I ask you to move towards the end. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68559	So Parliament is not only a legislative body but also a supreme representative body. And each of us represents part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we won't talk about the same things or think the same, because neither do the citizens who chose us. If what they say is true that the members of the State Judiciary Council will sue Mr. Grumoy, and they can sue him only for damages in a civil suit, then we have a problem because it's something that's going on. Because that's probably what's going to happen to counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic because of what he just said, because it's going to happen to any of us, and it's already happening. And President-in-Office of the Parliament, I ask you all to think together that we promise to protect the MPs, that they can't be prosecuted when they can't already be prosecuted for being prosecuted in civil litigation and that in this way they are taken from the MPs. Because if MPs can't speak freely, so like it or not, then this Parliament is losing its meaning. Then there will be fear in it whether those against whom MPs say they are corrupt and that they are a bad part of this society, that they will persecute us materially because they are already doing so and that we will have to remain silent here. And that's far more dangerous, it's far more dangerous than their corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68560	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68561	My colleague Stazić, yes, this is the dictatorship of those who brought the situation to Croatia. A simple example of where those who appoint judges, who will be tried by their colleagues, will mean more to the State Judiciary Council that announces the lawsuits, is an unprecedented pressure on parliamentary deputies. And I think that you should think about this, that these very groups of bodies are suing their colleague Grumo, and in this way they're threatening to basically send terrible messages to us to the MPs and to all of us who here have the right to discuss what they want. But this is the first time this has been noticed. This is for the first time not only do they want to ban us from speaking to the Rules of Procedure, and what will of course be because of these things, but this power in the prosecution's hands is amazing. The parliamentary representative, the majority of whom is dependent, most of whom are sued by fellow MPs and the fellow prosecutor who appoints a representative, is in the body appointed by the judges. It's the pressure on the parliamentary deputies so far unseen. And indeed the pressure and the judges, of course, will have to do because it appoints judges. Because this is a direct pressure on the judges by the person of the prosecutor who sued a fellow attorney. And indeed this is the trial of legal experts to analyse whether this has ever happened to fellow Stazic in a similar way, that those who pressure the judges they name and sue and have the power of the parliamentary majority, decide on the majority of their vote is the majority because Milan Bandic rules those few votes and that's the majority. So this is so far a precedent, a legal precedent of pressure on a parliamentary representative who brings about negativity and his views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68562	And final debate, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68563	Honorable ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs. I'd like to point out one problem regarding my speech in the Parliament. I've thought for a long time that for a spoken word in Parliament you can't answer. However, the case of President Nenad Stazic warns against the opposite. Namely, what it's about. During the parliamentary debate, MP Stazic said something and the private prosecutor sued him and was convicted by Judge Hrvoje Vukic at the Municipal Court in Zagreb despite the fact that the words spoken in the Assembly cannot be answered. I ask Mr. Stazić, so it is well that you went to the judge to explain to Hrvoje Vukic at the Municipal Court in Zagreb, that he cannot be convicted of what is said in the Parliament. He says I am, but he doesn't care. So you have a situation where you have a constitution on one side and laws on the other side, and on the other hand you have one Judge Hrvoje Vukic who says I don't care. I don't care what the Constitution says, what the laws say. I'll judge as I please. And that will of the judges violates the basic principle of the Law on Courts, which is that judges judge by law. The judges in Croatia, unfortunately, are becoming less and less legal. And what's worst is next. If I do, i.e. if anyone in Croatia makes a mistake during their duties whether they sign something that is harmful or make a mistake as a doctor, dentist, lawyer, etc. That's what he's responsible for. But for what judges do irregularities, etc. They don't match the judges. So the judges in Croatia are not responsible for their mistakes, but the Republic of Croatia answers for them. I propose to amend the Law on Courts in a way that is now the judge who is corrupt, the one who is unfair and the one who judges under the law and against the law that he suffers consequences for his decisions and actions, not the Republic of Croatia. And as far as these claims are concerned, I believe that in the current situation where the justice system itself is deeply corrupt and when corruption goes to the municipal court in Zagreb, but also to the Zagreb County Court and the Constitutional Court that we do not have to deal with the issues of Grumoje here, but that we have to deal with issues of serious court proceedings that fall into obsolescence, which is primarily the case of Ivo Sanader, who will most likely be released. This is the case of Robert Jezic, who will probably never return 5m euros from Sanader's bribe, etc. But that's not what we do. Nobody cares about that! I've never heard Mr. Zeljko Lackovic talk about these problems that I've been talking about. No! No! He sees the problem in Nikola Grumoja because he pointed out the problem of corruption in the State Judiciary Council. I think it is embarrassing and that as a Croatian Assembly, we must change the law, primarily the Law on Courts, and here I now announce to you on behalf of our Club of Representatives that from now on the judges are personally responsible for what they do and not that they do not respond to anyone and that they can do what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68564	We have replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68565	Dear Mr. Pernar, you're right, you said that, we have new ones on the judiciary. This is a good time. Let's sit here till midnight until we figure this out. You have new proof, here evidence of the dissertation of the President of the Constitutional Court is plagiarism. That judge only has one real estate half a million kuna. Where did that come from? I'd say another thing, and when we talk about the hate speech here, hate speech. Well, you are here dear comrades and comrades of the Parliament, you have heard of Resolution 1481 condemning communist regimes that have killed 20 million people there from the Urals, and that's where the system of one is glorified. That doesn't interest Mr. Fury Radin down there, former personnel down there. And what about Resolution 1096 to remove the remains of communism? And here rises a friend and greets the death of fascism, freedom to the people. What are we talking about here? So that's where all the fundamental rights are violated, the foundations of civilization in Europe, the civilization foundations and the 10 commands of God every day, and we're talking about some other indirect. Someone's insulting someone. Get a room downstairs, make a deaf room, give them boxing gloves, whoever comes out, gets out. That's irrelevant to me! This is a key matter of removing the communism of remains, Resolutions 1481 and 1096. And these comrades praise that former system that killed half a million people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68566	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68567	Dear Representative Glasnović, you talk about communism here all the time and where he has these bad sides, ugly faces, etc. But in communism, man knew he couldn't talk, and today we're talking about democracy, fairy tales of human rights of fair justice, fairy tales of the rule of law, etc. And now whoever rebels against these fairy tales, whoever refuses to believe in this simulated reality as the HRT shows us, as the ruling majority of them are being sued. And then what? What are our chances in these courts? None, for they are, for those whom they have appointed are those against whom you speak. And there's no justice here. And I call on this opportunity to get parliamentary representatives or protect themselves from these mounted processes, from these litigation cases, etc. or, on the other hand, to place judges personally in charge of the decisions they make, not that the state does so for them. Because if I say anything then he's guilty, then I answer for it, and if the judges make a guilty verdict that's clearly against the law, then no one has to answer for it, or the state has to, and not them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68568	Second replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68569	Dear colleague Pernar, I don't think the President of the Parliament made a mistake, as he said, and that this debate had come to his head. This debate is very important for Croatian society. This is what our citizens comment on about the state in which the Croatian judiciary is located, and as far as the protection of parliamentary deputies, I absolutely support here all colleagues who believe that what we bring here in the Croatian Parliament that this is why we should not be held accountable, but I am telling Mr. Lackovic who called me here in the injury of the Rules of Procedure that I do not feel any fear, that I am ready to mean and now face all charges before the Croatian judiciary regardless of what is being prepared and that is what the outcome already knows. So I know that in these processes that follow, I will surely lose. I am willing to pay that compensation if there is at least one small stone for a fairer Croatian judiciary. And that level of anxiety that you showed today means when you realized that I didn't do my PR here, but you did what you shouldn't do, you sued me, so and now it turns out that you just opened up an important debate in the Croatian Parliament about the situation in which the Croatian judiciary is located, and what colleague Pernar noticed by my colleague Bulj I think is the most important thing. This is an unprecedented precedent, that a person who is crucial to the survival of the ruling majority who chooses to sue me and practically puts such pressure on those who will make decisions in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68570	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. So you've twisted my words. I didn't say that the debate had broken into my head, but that my approach had become clear that I had allowed it to be discussed without the application. That's a very important difference. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68571	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We're in a situation where there's actually a replacement thesis. So those who fight crime are prosecuted, and those who deal with crime are freed, alibied, run down their hair, down them, as I would already say by hand, etc. Why? Why does our judiciary function in a way that honest people suffer for the one who owes him a hundred kunas has no statute of limitations, he is bound to die and will die blocked, and the one who stole us all together for him has statutes of limitations, for him his judgments fall. They're wanted, the wrong point is sought. And as for the work of the DORH, when will this DORH come on the agenda here? Never. What is this? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to get serious and stop more of you HDZ gentlemen affecting the judiciary because it doesn't make sense that all the verdicts that go against HDZ fall to higher court levels, and when it comes to ordinary people, then all judgments go to them. And what's scariest is the practice of HRT where HRT controllers falsely testify that they saw the TV signal receiver or that the person said she had it and she didn't have it and the courts gave them trust. And they still make fun of people who say they don't have it, they say you'll see it in court, judges love stories like that. Why? Because they know the judges are judging for HRT and because they tried for Hanžekovic and will continue to judge the mafia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68572	Please choose your words when you speak. Let's go two more replicas. We have a respected colleague named Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68573	Mr. President, I have several historical sentences. I don't think he's going to go into history, but I'm going to take them out of history. So, this case against the parliamentary representative, my colleague Pernar, I replicated to you almost 8 years ago, in the Croatian Parliament on Friday afternoon and right around the point of removing immunity, and that Mr. President sent this article to you for a text, because I had a problem with the fact that Mr. Kajin is being tried for the spoken word in the Assembly on the HRT suit. At the chair table was then Vice-President of the Parliament Mr. Vladimir Seks and he had the need after my presentation on behalf of the club to comment. I'll read what he's been commenting on. "For an opinion expressed in the Assembly, it is my view that the representative cannot answer on any basis." That is, therefore, I apologize. "In the Assembly, the MP can all say this unpunishedly, adding that immunity could not protect the advocate for the spoken word only if it was statements that prompted violence such as the threat of death, and that for everything else, the representative would be subject to the strict responsibility of the chairman's notice, taking away words and so on. Because if indeed MPs have to answer for the spoken word and express opinion in the assembly and according to some damage, then we can all find ourselves in a position to answer or remain silent” Mr. Vladimir Seks, vice president of the Croatian Parliament in 2010. That's his view that's been made public for this pay phone. And if there are cases of lawsuits to representatives over the spoken word in the Assembly, then I believe that the Constitutional Court should react with the report and give the opinion that this is a violation of the Constitution and the Institute of Inviolability for Speech in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68574	It was from history, but it wasn't historic. Comrade Pernar, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68575	Mr. Bauk, that there is a great problem, that there is a great problem, that there is a trial for those who speak, is judged by those who whistle, is judged by those who show, and those who conceal, those who protect, those who support corruption are protected, but also chooses. And it's always said that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict proves otherwise. Well, yes, Ivo Sanader is innocent, Nadan Vidosevic is innocent, Milan Bandic is innocent, Mr Kalmeta is innocent, the one who confessed to the bribe Jezic tycoon that he took five million and he is innocent. They're all innocent to you. It's your policy, ladies and gentlemen. You mock the Croatian public by telling them that justice and satisfaction are sought in court, and you do not tell them we control these courts, we decide who is guilty and who is not guilty. And in your perception of creation, they scream crime and genocide over the people, but I repeat the greatest genocide and the greatest brainwashing of HRT, because without the support of HRT you would not be able to manipulate the Croatian people, you would not be able to lie to their eyes and your farce would be a mockery. But since HRT protects you, since you control direct or indirect media and other media, especially radio, you decide on frequencies you have complete control and total power not only over courts but also over human heads. And I repeat, the incasators or HRT controllers you tell them I don't have a receiver, the decision of the High Court is that you don't have to let them in the house, they say ok we don't care what you said we're sending you to court we're giving you a warrant and the court will rule in our favor. And they laugh at people, they laugh at people. Could they be fair to the courts and judges based on evidence and law? We couldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68576	Thank you. My colleague Maras is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68577	Thank you very much. Today, colleague Pernar is unlikely to have caught up to the network and shown the paradox of Croatia and our system and showed what is the biggest problem in Croatia, which is a lack of confidence in the judiciary or justice system. Representative Milan Bandic, a member of the Milan Bandic Club in the Croatian Parliament, has been suing another member of the Croatian Parliament, although the one in whose club has been sitting under several heavy indictments of the most severe charges when you have been in public duty for several years. And nothing is going on, instead of probleming that the party's representative who has a president who's been having corruption charges since 2014 is sitting down and deciding who's gonna be the judges, we're having a problem with what our fellow representative warned about. It is unfortunately the state that we have in the Republic of Croatia today and it is unfortunately the state for us to have the mayor of Zagreb asked about, not where the money is, but where are the apartments that the attorney's office asks him about because the attorney's office thinks he has in the indictment apartments at several locations in the city of Zagreb covered. He is laughing at all of us, and through his fellow representative of the DSV club, he appoints judges. And that supports who? It supports HDZ, supports this House, supports the City Assembly and walks hand in hand with such politicians and therefore we have Croatia as we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68578	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68579	The Croatian public should be told that HRT is a corrupt institution, that HRT manipulates citizens, that its role is not to inform but to disinformation the public. And what is the greatest evidence in this thesis? Look at the ratings of HRT... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68580	Comrade Pernar, you're completely off topic again. We're not talking about HRT. We're talking about removing immunity. I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68581	The thing is, HRT sued Damir Cain because he said any show can be bought on HRT. And although it is clear that the MP can't answer for what he says from the pay phone, not only has he been sued, but HRT lost that lawsuit against him with an explanation that a representative can't answer for it. However, HRT considers it above the law and complains of the municipal court's verdict and loses again at the Croatian County Court. But why do they get into these disputes if they know what the right is? That's why they're scared, that they're gonna shut up and because they obviously don't think that they're allowed to talk against their crime. That's the essence of the whole story. And they to me... Mr. Pernar how do you behave? What's your behavior? Gentlemen of the HRT, how do they behave in control of HRT when people are harassed when they're going through houses and apartments? Why don't you do a show about it? Why can't you talk about scaring people? You tell them they have to let you into an apartment or house even though the high court ruling says you don't have to. Why are you telling them that if they say they don't have a TV signal, you tell them it's irrelevant that they still have to pay and that if they go to court, they'll lose the dispute? Why does HRT do that? And you who chose this management of HRT you support it, you go hand in hand with them and it is time for the Croatian public to finally know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68582	Thank you. We've come to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "During the term of the term of office, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MP Nikola Grmoja, at the request of the Đurđevec attorney, Željko Lacković, on 7 February 2018, to the municipal court in Zagreb, for the criminal part of the libel of art. Paragraph 149(2) concerning paragraph 1 of the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour, have been decided by the Mandate Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68583	And the last item today will be our report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to submit the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68584	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 36th session held on 21 March 2018 the request of the attorney-in-chief Luke Misetic of New York to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damir Tomic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the insult referred to in Article 147 and the crime of slander referred to in Article 149. Penalty law. Damir Tomić, representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, is on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated, nor a criminal procedure can be conducted. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representative Damir Tomic shall be denied at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Luka Misetic on 14 March 2018 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence referred to in Article 147 and the defamation offence referred to in Article 149. Penalty law. The explanation is actually the same as in all cases so far. It's a private lawsuit, and in that sense it's not proposed to remove immunity. The criminal proceedings may be initiated and conducted after the end of the parliamentary term, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68585	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And that's how we ended our work today. We'll pick up tomorrow at 9.30. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. Good afternoon! Session adjourned at 15.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68586	And we are going to the final point today, the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damir Tomic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Damir Tomic, at the request of the attorney of private prosecutor Luka Misetic of New York, following a complaint filed on 14 March 2018 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the offence of the insult referred to in Article 147 and the crime of the slander referred to in Article 149. Penalty law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 114 votes, a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Dear MPs and MPs, this concludes the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I announce the beginning of the 8th session as planned, 11 April 2018. I wish everyone a happy Easter, a pleasant Easter holiday on behalf of all of you and all Croatian citizens and citizens and Croats and Croats. Thanks and I'll see you around. Session closed at 11.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68587	And now we move to the following law: - Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on a new branch, second reading, P.Z.E. number 186. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I have already said that it is the final draft law and that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Mr. Plazonic, would you like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68588	Thank you very much. The draft Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation of 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on novel food follows: the implementation of the EU from 2015/2283, which is prescribed at EU level for the approval of new food as well as the rules for its placing on the EU market. The Ministry of Health will then be established as the competent authority for the implementation of administrative and professional affairs under the provisions of this law and of the EU regulation again and the same 2015/2283 and Sanitary inspection and veterinary inspection as competent inspection services. Infringement provisions will be laid down for the conduct of infringements relating to the implementation of the law of the prescribed obligations. Now, the new food is considered all food that was not used to a greater extent for human nutrition within the EU before 15 May 1997. New food concerns new sources of food or newly produced and innovative food, food produced by the use of new technologies and production processes and food that is traditionally consumed outside the EU, but not within the EU. The difference between the solutions proposed by the draft final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft draft law and the reasons for which these differences occurred was as follows, in Articles 9 and 13, nomtechnically developed in accordance with Article 17(2) of the Single Methodological Rules for the Making of Acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament and Article 12 relating to the procedures to be initiated under the provisions of the Law implementing the European Community Regulation. 25897, European Parliament and Council of 27 January 1997. The new food and the ingredients of new food, which are written in the "National Journals", etc., that I do not speak these numbers in a manner that will be amended as prescribed, that the procedures will be completed in accordance with Article 35 of the EU Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The EU Parliament and the Council of 25 November 2015 on novel food provided that all requirements for placing new food on the market within the Union submitted to a Member State pursuant to Article 4 of the European Community Regulation and for which no final decision has been taken before 1 January 2018 will be treated as a request in accordance with this Regulation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68589	Thank you very much. A debate like I said before, and it seems to me that and I didn't say they've been implemented by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy, do they want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68590	Thank you very much. Greetings to the few MPs. Otherwise, if I remember this discussion was in the first reading somewhere around midnight in the same composition, then today I thought it would be good because it would be full of halls, and however, a little bit of a stalled debate at the first point, and here we came to the same situation. Yeah, yeah, but here's how it turned out that in both readings, there's very little interest in Parliamentarians. [[Intruder Radin: But today is Friday.]] So as we've heard from the secretary of state, there's not much of a change from the first reading, so there's no need for a long discussion either. What's here is if there are citizens who are still watching us for some information about this new food. Some of the examples of new food are new production processes, e.g. bread, mushrooms or milk treated with ultraviolet light to increase vitamin D content, new sources of nutrients such as oil, doxoxaenic acids from microalgia and yeast betas, food products from third countries, you probably ate bread with chia seeds or nonia seeds, plant extracts such as protein oil rape. It is also good for citizens to say that on the European Commission's website there is a list of all forms of new food. But what I particularly draw attention to is that there is a list of food that is not authorised by the Commission's decision to apply it so that citizens take care of it. There's a lot on the Internet today. What I would also like to emphasise to the public is that it is very important to respect the so-called regulations when declaring such food. health attitudes and health messages that may be on that information. Of course, there is also a strict warning that this new food is not recommended, it is about different sensitive groups. So if there are food and health claims, it is very good to check that they comply with what is prescribed by the European Commission rules. What forms of food are approved? For example, in 2011, it was beta glucan whose seeds were approved in 2013, a kind of micro algae in 2014, UV treated yeasts in the year 2016. And in the end, why do we even have this new regulation? There are six important reasons I want to point out for the viewers who are following our work. First, the new regulation on novel food will improve the effectiveness of the approval process and will encourage innovation in the food sector, ensure the safety of European consumers and extend the choice of food available to them. The general criteria for the definition of new food remain unchanged, so the new food and food ingredients are food and ingredients that are used before 15 May '97. They didn't consume much more. The European Food Safety Authority must carry out safety assessments, which is very important, ensure that the list of novel food authorised in the EU is invisible, by establishing the time limits for the safety of the assessment and the procedures for approval will improve efficiency and transparency, thereby reducing the overall duration of the approval procedures. In order to facilitate trade, there will be a faster and more proportionate assessment of security for traditional food from third countries that have been considered safe for use in the past. The new regulation also introduces a simplified assessment procedure for traditional food from third countries, which is new in the EU. If it can be historically demonstrated that traditional food is safe and the EU Member States and the security agency have not expressed their concern, this traditional food may be placed on the market on the basis of the notification and the applicant. And the sixth, new technologies and innovations have the potential to reduce the impact of food production on the environment, increase food safety and benefits for consumers. Innovative food may benefit from data protection provisions allowing applicants to obtain individual authorisation for placing new food on the market. Data protection is based on newly developed scientific evidence and ownership data and is limited to 5 years. I will end up with a statement by Claude Juncker, who recently said that it is unacceptable that there are double standards in the quality of food in the EU, that there must be no consumers of the second order, so that Croatia's citizens are also able to consume safe food at any moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68591	Thank you, too. We now have Mr. Vlatko Kopic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68592	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear state secretary, assistant minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are, as has already been said, a second reading of the draft Law implementing the EU regulation 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on new food that was adopted unanimously by 107 votes in the first reading of this Visa House. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to point out that this is about bringing domestic law into line with the European acquis in a way that the EU regulation in question will be implemented in Croatian legal legislation. At EU level, in December 2015, Regulation 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November that year on novel foods, but amending Regulation 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation P.Z.E. No. European Parliament and Councils and Commission Regulation No 258/97 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. EU Regulation 2015/2283 significantly clarifys and complements new food categories. It makes it easier to place traditional food from third countries on the EU market and changes the process of granting new food itself. Furthermore, for the purposes of implementing EU Regulation 2015/2283, each EU Member State will ensure at EU level the prescribed procedure for the authorisation of new food and the rules for its placing on the EU market. In fact, new food has already been said, but it is important to note that with new food all food is considered not to be significantly used for human nutrition within the EU before 15 May 1997, it is food consisting of or produced from micro-organisms, fungi or algae or which I am isolated from. It will therefore be established for the implementation of this Regulation that the Ministry of Health is as the competent authority for the implementation of administrative and professional operations under the provisions of this law and of the Regulation as indicated and the sanitary inspection and veterinary inspection as the competent inspection services. Accordingly, the competent services for the search for entities in the temple business will be engaged and shall give an opinion on whether the food is covered by the scope of that Regulation and, in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) 2015/2283, shall also give opinions in the process of approving or placing new food on the EU market. Similarly, the competent authorities will have the power to submit a request to the European Commission and to decide whether certain foods are covered by the definition of novel food in accordance with the Article of this Regulation. What is more important to emphasise for the law in question is the fact that the legislative proposal also prescribes infringement provisions for the infringement of certain provisions of Regulation (EC) 2015/2283 and all for the purpose of protecting the public health interests of persons who consume food which is the subject of the Regulation itself. And at the end of this presentation, I would also like to point out that, for the implementation of this law in the State budget for 2018 and the projections of 2019, funds of 50 000 kuna are provided for each year starting from 1 January of the current year for the work of the Committee for New Food. After all of this, we note that the HDZ Representatives Club agrees to continue to pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68593	Thank you very much. The replica isn't as far as I can tell. Mr. Plazonic doesn't want to. I conclude this debate, we will vote once the conditions are met, we will continue on Wednesday, as you already know with the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Land Act at 9:30. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 13.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-26-0.u68594	Final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on novel food, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 186, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2283 of the European Parliament and of the Council on novel food. I find that unanimously, with 117 votes in favour, passed the law. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. The first point today is the Final Proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 178. Here, hands in the air, dear colleague Petrov. Here you go.
