ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65841	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Before he does, he's got his hand in the air, but let me just announce the first point. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. But before that, a colleague named Beus Richembergh appeared first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65842	Respect, Mr. President, and good morning. On behalf of GLAS and HSU, please pause for 10 minutes for current problems in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65843	The second one's up, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65844	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDSS club, because of the extremely worrying situation on Croatian radiotelevision, for which we are responsible and competent, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65845	The third one's a colleague, Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65846	I request a recess in 10 minutes on the issue of cultural space in Croatia, now, today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65847	Thank you. My fourth colleague, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65848	I am asking the chair of the session on behalf of the MOST club of independent lists concerning the current political situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65849	You got it. A colleague of Jovanovic, fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65850	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club on the subject of a floating LNG terminal in Omislje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65851	Okay. Comrade Bačić, sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65852	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65853	Dear comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65854	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club to talk about the Executive Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65855	The law of law? Okay. [[Intruder Bunjac: Yes.]] That's it. Seven, we have a request for a break. Ninety-fifty, we're back to work. It's 9:00.35. Resume the session after 9:50 p.m. We'll continue our work. The first is a respected colleague, Beus Richembergh, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65857	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The GLAS and HSU club asked for this break to be publicly warned about the inadmissible model of behaviour when it comes to the treatment of Croatian wartime wartime disabled or veterans. As you know in recent days, the public has been upset by the information that the Ministry of Health on the one hand, the Ministry of Defence on the other hand has not made enough efforts to sign contracts with four hospitals that also carry out health checks and treatment of Croatian military veterans. It's hospitals in Zbor, Ogulin, Knin and Vukovar. Instead of hearing what the health ministers and the defence minister have to say about it, we got a denial yesterday and by a colleague of our parliamentary representative who had to say that hospitals would not be shut down. It's scandalous in itself because if there were any words and hospitals going out, then it's a first-rate scandal. Here two months ago, when we discussed first, and then in the second reading on the Law on Croatian Defences, we were convinced that the huge resources that have been allocated over the years that follow in relation to those that are already singled out for the defence population, would focus among other things on increasing the quality of care for Croatian wartime disabled people, disabled people and civilians from the Homeland War, and generally on the population. What happened? While the health minister was our colleague Sinisa Varga in the government of Zoran Milanovic, the hospital limit, for example, in Zabok was a million kunas per month. He was cut to 500 thousand a year ago and not only not increased in the meantime, but also signed contracts with those hospitals that are usually signed at the end of next year. This limit, which has been reduced, threatens the functioning of all four hospitals because, meanwhile, there has been an increase in obligations towards hospital employees, a similar increase in salaries or the application of a new collective contract. For example, for Zabok Hospital, in the meantime, because of the reduced limit, it has become a loser and owes more than 6 million kuna this hour. If there is no guarantee of funding for a hospital that has been through about 30,000 veterans, war veterans so far, how can we expect to apply a new law on higher standards? Is this a model of the HDZ administration's behavior that's full of mouths taking care of defenders, veterans, and when we look at what's going on in practice, then we see that the state is actually a fig tree in the pocket. It's about the paradigm being the same. There's a lot of talk about rights, but it's mostly about those rights that create a clienteleist network, and that's where we're going, as you know in the next few years, to increase the allocations by more than five billion kuna. But when it comes to real care for people who are in need, so those who have truly suffered, who have the health consequences primarily because of their participation in the Homeland War, then there are situations that happen today on February 1st, and those in charge and in the system are defined as veteran hospitals don't know what's waiting for them tomorrow. This is inadmissible behavior and the public must know what is the difference between the declared objectives, politics and reality. We strongly protest and ask for the Ministry of Health to approach the problem of four veteran hospitals at the same time, insurance has enough resources, raises limits according to new obligations and enables normal functioning and continued health care of Croatian veterans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65858	The second debate is SDSS's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65859	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is not long ago that we chose a new director of HRT with the expectation that the situation on HRT will improve rather than continue to recover. With the expectation that the situation on HRT will be shifted from the process of collapse to the consolidation process, none of which is according to what we can see when we get to HRT, when we watch HRT, when we meet with people who are employed on HRT has happened and is not happening. The only public service media in our country is failing at the sight of all of us, and the Croatian Parliament is responsible for the functioning of the public service of HRT. The halls look more and more miserable, the areas in which the work seems to be increasingly devastationed, the equipment in relation to other television houses seems to be getting older, the organisation of the work of people and journalists and reporters is such that HRT is always a few steps behind the other houses, and at the same time no one has the capacity as HRT has. No one has a net, no one has any equipment, no one has any space, no one has any experience, but despite this, because of the bad running of that house, that house falls apart rapidly and daily. And if we representatives in the Croatian Parliament who choose directors here, who accept financial and programming reports, look at it and pretend like we don't see anything or want to see anything, then we'll be co-responsible because in the next few years, it's going to happen with HRT and it's going to become a house of ghosts because it's actually a house of ghosts. There's a leak almost on every floor. There's a leak on almost every task force. And if we find that Croatia is unable to have its own public media service, then tomorrow we will realize that it is not able to have public hospitals, and then we will realize that tomorrow it is not able to have public universities, so the day after tomorrow we will realize that it is not able to have public schools, then we are wondering here to sit and in whose name we are talking or we will let everything go to waste or we will let it all be privatized. I especially want to tell people who from this pay phone and after me will speak for so-called. national interests. And when a moment of speaking specifically and especially to people who would still be at war. What more do we have to wrinkle? So let's go fight what our problems are and not keep fighting. And let me say that. It is a shame that a public media service has contributed as it was seven, eight days ago or less than that to a sweet human story about someone who pulled to Stalingrad as a member of the then Croatian army and died there, I am sorry that he died but what did he have to look for there? And what does today’s public service have to do with the sweet stories of his descendant, who of all the dolls he loved most in his childhood was Hitler’s doll? And then the manager comments on it, you see how lively he is, you see how chio, you see what good attitudes he has. Very instructive. Smile up. Shame on you can be like all those who don't know what that means... You are not worthy to be answered [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You are not worthy to be answered because you threaten people in the halls and in the stairs. [[The President's intrusion: Please don't throw it away.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65860	Thank you, thank you, fellow Pupovac. Just a little fellow Glasnović, I haven't even called you yet, now you're up, Independent for Croatia and colleague Zeljko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65861	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here I am talking about one topic, she's not passing the topic, it's... space, we heard about d our last speaker here what's going on, I'm the victim of a firing group here in the Parliament that accuses me of hate speech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's hate speech? And who is instigating this debate? Who are these people? These are mental Yugoslavs, we heard some here today before the mental Yugoslavs who cannot change their mental set, that is a cultural question, and that is why Croatia cannot go forward ic, it is primarily a cultural, anthropological and psychological issue not economically and politically. That mental set is transgenicly transmitted. We can't get out of it, we're buried in those trenches. Here's what they know about these former mental Yugoslavs and the present? Empty phrases, abstract speeches, there are experts on this matter, and that Anglicism hatespech, hate speech, welcome to them, before was a verbal delinquent is now a hate speech. Who are those heads? They're sitting right I don't know if the Histrians, the Istrians, are still under Italian occupation up there, I don't know anymore, other heads, were members of so-called. The ferian alliances, you remember the fairy alliances, they got tent wings, they sang Partisan songs, they taught as some who were sitting behind me, not now these honorable people behind me but others, police education, they taught there, the role of a Bosnian factory horse in NOB, etc., but they continued after this, and some grew property by about a million, 2 million kuna. ... You remember those landings in North Korea, Tito's ours, we're the Titinis, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about journalists, here's the press, all the journalists were former members, they worked for UDBA, they were social officials, those in New York were working for... like today. The man who represents us on the East River, Mr. Smally and other characters, so you couldn't get a passport if you didn't work for them, that's black and white, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's going on? While we're blocked by some on HTV, there come members of the SKH, representations, old heads, those Galapagos turtles, there's one here walking around the Assembly here, he's a consultant for SDP, and now, look, here he is at the Open, I call it Closed. Here we listen to the same heads, same character, and that's hate speech. And where were these when they spoke of tolerance, respect, etc., where were these characters when Yugoslavia had more political prisoners per capital than SS? These people were tortured, killed, when people were outside killing, when they were spending the kidnapping and you have a party there, the party chief says we have to get the spirit of collectiveization back from '45, I almost fainted up there when I heard it. Now these are the characters and they want to modernise, they can't modernise the state. Secondly, they're asking the mental set, they're experts on the matter and they're called.../The speaker doesn't understand. It knows Mr. Petrov here, Camelot, there's one there... Throwing people into the islands of Cogljen, stone around the neck, underwater battlefield, former label, today he's a member of the river associations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] militant atheists, overnight when the Martians came here, they'd be, uh, uh, joining them right away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, and that's why, now I'm going to read one short poetry, this is their saint, uh, it's some heads sitting, watching, having,... are names, worldview, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, this, school, now I'll tell you, you'll know, you know. Schools, kindergartens, streets bear the name of this character, like this, we hate you, we hate you bastards. In your mother's cry, your children, the wombs of all women, where the feminists are. Our angry gourds' bones will crawl you, angry bitches, your guts will lick your guts, flies of zucchini and stinking worms, will remain... to black blood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We would eat the heart, the meat of the pagans, on the corpse of the village, and click furiously. Here, it's partisan, it's the core... Satanism and pure hate speech. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's where the comrades sit and tell us about tolerance. And that is why, while they are infiltrating Croatian tissue, in politics, in economy, in cultural space, we will have neither a remont of the legal system nor a catharsis, Mr. Pupovac escaped here and he was also a member of the party. I saw his work book up there. Here, now raises the man, there's one from the fast or Istria. I don't know if he's there. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, those are your characters. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Glasnović, thank you.]] And with such, there is no happiness. [[Intruder: Time's up.]] This one here since '92. Mr. One who raised.../The speaker turned off./... [[Intruder: colleague Glasnović, your time has cut out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65862	Comrade Glasnović, time is up. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65863	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Glasnovic violated Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. For months now, if not more than that, we have suffered the harassment and insult of MPs Glasnovic. That's inadmissible. The fact that he allows himself here, therefore, not only offends his colleagues here, that he is on a case-by-case basis, about people he knows nothing about, but that he regularly insults people who are not in this assembly, he calls them as the greatest criminals, moral zeroes or people who are speculative of the past, but that is how they manage Croatia, it is inadmissible. The entire public is appalled by such speech in the Croatian Parliament and here I will say one thing, perhaps for the first time in this House, I volunteer to make myself available, but I also ask Mr. Glasnović to submit to psychiatric skills, because I don't think that man is a healthy head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65864	Thank you. A colleague of Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65865	So I can say something in my defense?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65866	Wait, you can, but first it's Furio Radin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65867	Also, Article 238, the part that speaks of insulting, disdaining MPs, but not with a ton of colleagues, Richembergh, who could share at a different point, but rather with such speeches, Mr President, in fact, are causing one comedy and disenfranchisement of this Parliament. He's turning into cabarets. He's turning into a circus. The function for which we are chosen, chosen here, is not that in this way, we speak and treat the Croatian people in this way. Mr. Glasovic thinks he has a copy right, to the Croatian people. It is his opinion, but it should not be allowed, that such an opinion, in such a comical and funny way, is in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65868	Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65869	I'd just say President, Your Honor, look, I'm telling the truth. Whoever accepts it, let him accept it, I'm telling the truth, I'll cover what I'm saying with facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65870	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65871	Yeah, but I say, I didn't, I was the victim,... manipulations from some people who flew to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and made statements about me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I have the right to say what I think. And I have my own electoral body, which also shares the same worldview, and not the worldview... revolutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65872	Okay. So this is where we came in chosen from the people and everyone got a certain portion of the vote. But it doesn't give us a chance, and it's not right, to use an unacceptable speech, to insult another, we know that, and it says that in the new ethical code, which we hope to bring, that a representative must not slander, should not insult, should not use hate speech. And I invite you all, so we don't do it. So, in our debates, to be argued, to be expressing the views of those citizens and those voters who chose us. The lighthouse Croatia is very colorful, but I call on you once again, to have a lift in it, to make sure that people look at us, listen to what we say here, have consequences for the overall atmosphere in Croatian society. So, yes, what we heard today wasn't appropriate, and I'm asking you not to do it anymore. None of us should speak the way we heard today. And I don't believe anyone should be subjected to a psychiatric test, colleague Beus Richembergh, we won't do that, it's not our job, it's another institution. But, please, once again, I urge you not to speak in a way that is not suitable for speaking in the Croatian Parliament. Now, please, fellow Petrov, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65873	My colleagues and fellow MPs, three pictures. The first INA, it takes the government a year to elect consultants to start the process of returning INA to Croatian hands for a year. For a year you've been giving jokes,... and similar to negotiating with MOL on Croatia and our future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess the government thinks we have a killer good foreign policy, so Croatia will deal with it in a few days after it is included. As far as it is concerned, we could see it the other day, when the Hungarians torpedoed the Croatian vice president and when the government eventually agreed to shut down the refinery in Sisak. You know, there's no rush for ours, it won't be a problem. Until then, the smart neighbors are carrying out their plan, the Sisak refinery is shutting down, and we may eventually get a three-wheeler after the kind of car INA was. But, well, I believe that Hungarians, if they asked for better lawyers and speakers than our government, they wouldn't have found it better. I don't even have to mention, there's been a year of MOST's proposal to buy the INA. The ruling didn't even blink. Agrocor second picture. For the sake of Agrokora, the present rulings will have their cheeks heated through the next generation. Instead of cleaning up in 4 months 2017, all the fungi and odors created by the policy and the economy have decided to apply another kilometer of application. All responsible are either abolized or sent to lifelong fairies in other countries. Half of the Croatian economy was then put into the hands of the Fund whose original capital is not even known. You have a very interesting situation today. You don't even know who owns Agrokor today. I'd like the government to talk me out of it. But you know who's working best on Agrokor today? Former representative of the Knighthead Fund and representatives of Russian banks in Agrokor. And interestingly, during this last period of a month, interesting custody accounts appear from exotic countries such as Hong Kong. I wonder what you'll say after that. I think he's smart enough. Due to some small interests, hens, nonsense not to express myself more uglyly from Croatia will go from 10 to 15 billion kuna, and half of our economy will be sold for peanuts. I suppose the ruling ones teach us how to actually love Croatia by that syntagma, so don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. You're the only one who's ever had that idea. One hand in your pocket. And that's why we were also proposing another model of restructuring and funding, and for the Knighthead Fund we found out after lex Agrokor and that from the papers. I assume the Prime Minister has a reason for that, too. Third picture of Petrochemy. If I even tried to explain the level of carelessness, inaction, survival at the state manger had taken place in Petrochemia for the past 20 years so that I could hardly prove it. I'll only take one picture. Apparently today the original capital of Petrochemy is worth a few dozen million kunas, a company that is actually worth a few billion kunas. I make a debt, take over debt, customers are alike. It is allegedly expected to sell to a PPD whose capital, i.e. the main gas supplier, ISPROM. Is that a coincidence? INA – Roznev, Agrokor – Russian banks, Petrochemia – PPD read Gazprom. I don't believe in coincidences. I'm just wondering if you're aware that because of your indifference, inaction, building your image alone for your careers and personal ambitions, you probably put us in a bind. I believe that fellow MP Bačić will try it because he is a break analyst explaining how some government magic will happen, some deus ex machina that will solve it all in a second. Great! Please listen to him carefully. Maybe everything isn't lost. But today you have your first chance, today they come to you blocked in front of the Parliament at 11:30, give them support, show them that you can do different and that you love your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65874	Thank you. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives and Honorable Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65875	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about the inadmissible counter-constitutional and illegal pushing of LNG terminals and pushing hidden interests under the cover of the strategic energy interests of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County deserve equal treatment as others in Croatia. More specifically, all Croatian citizens deserve equal treatment. Whether the Constitution and the laws apply in all parts of the Republic of Croatia equally or Plenkovic to some of its decisions, the announcements of some new specific laws points out that all Croatian citizens are equal, and some are slightly more equal if the mayor, for example, is a HDZ mayor, until you live in the Gorski Kotar in Omislja na Krka or the Primorje-Gorski County is worth some other rules and some different treatment. These days, the current story is about the release of the tunnel through the tunnel of St. Ilija for the inhabitants of the Imot region. That is, while some are being cut off by tunnels because their mayor is HDZ, we, for example, can't go out anywhere in the Primorje-Gorski County without paying any Ucka tunnel if we go to Istria, either highway to Zagreb, or a bridge to all islands. So I'm asking today from this pay phone that the government, by the exact same criteria as the St. Elijah makes a decision for the residents of all other parts of Croatia according to these same criteria. I especially point out this for Gori Kotar, because for Gorski Kotar free traffic along the highway would improve economic movements, development of entrepreneurship and demographic restoration. But St. Elijah's tunnel is a small thing compared to Plenkovic's announcement that the government will be so-called. lex LNG, which will prescribe conditions for building a floating terminal at Omis, will suspend both the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government and Decisions of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly and the Municipality of Omisalj and the Will of the citizens of Krk, Omis, Rijeka and the entire Primorje-Gorski County. I ask how Ministers Butkovic will be able to view his constituents, especially Cappelli, for the threat of tourism, as HDZ's in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County Assembly also supported all decisions concerning land rather than floating LNG terminals. Is there a new coker in front of us asking Plenkovic, Butkovic, Cappellia, and especially Mr. Klaric? Bakru is a party decreed coker who was devastated by the Bay of Bakar, and now Plenkovic, in respect of some past party times, has forced the citizens of Krk to suspend the Constitution and the will of citizens under the exception of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, imposes a Newpartian decree floating the LNG terminal. To be clear to the end, the Primorje-Gorski County, Krk, Omisalj, we representatives of the 8th SDP electoral unit do not oppose the LNG terminal, but in all the decisions and documents of Omis, Krka, Primorje-Gorski County, it is clearly said that it is a land resolution of LNG terminals. In ten years, the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly discussed the LNG terminal four times, and all four times the conclusions of all political options were unanimous. Yeah, I can use the LNG terminal, but the land variant. All this that is now being done under the cover of strategic interests, suspensions of democracy, impact on constitutional rights of the population of Omis, Krka and Primorje-Gorski County. It is interesting how Plenkovic points out that lex LNG speeds up the implementation of the project from the aspect of concession, property relations and impact studies on the environment. My colleagues and colleagues, you know what that means? These are the three last defenses of democratic procedures and the rule of law. So lex LNG will bring down complete legislation in Croatia, end competition and favour foreign investors. The local population that opposes floating LNG will take away the land and feed them a floating terminal. And regardless of whether the project is harmful to the environment or not, it will realize it. Where is the economic viability study for this project? Is it in Hungary or Hungary's MOL? Will the government also issue guarantees for this project? What happens if it fails because the gas ingested is simply too expensive at the start 30% more expensive than the pipeline Russian gas, will the citizens of Croatia pay for it too? Who will repair the ecological damage from the LNG terminal? Why is the prime minister, Prime Minister of the Government ignoring local self-government and saying that 20 thousand people of the island of Krk are irrelevant? So we are not against LNG terminals, but we are against a change that is suddenly going towards the sea variant which threatens the interests of Omis, Krka, Primorje-Gorski County. The sea variant brings only problems and concerns, if you do a land terminal from which you would benefit builders and installers, this will buy a boat anchor in front of Omis and Omisalj will get another floating disaster next to the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65876	Let's move on, HDZ counseling club and respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65877	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here I will say a few words to the exhibition, went by colleague Beus Richembergh who referred to the fact that the Ministry of Health in cooperation in this case when talking about Croatian veteran hospitals is intended to rationalise the business system fears the Croatian public that this hospital, for example in Zabok or in Vukovar or in Knin will be shut down. That's not true. The funds for the operation of these hospitals are secured, that's for sure for my colleagues, Busu. New contracts have been prepared in a way that the financing of these hospitals will take place according to the patient received in that hospital, not in a way that provides a flat-rate monthly of 500 thousand kuna to that hospital, regardless of how many patients are processed in that hospital. Therefore, it is going to a new system of paying for the work of these hospitals, only according to the number of patients received. And I'm saying, given the fact that since these hospitals were founded and so far, the number of patients has tripled, there is no reason or need to fear the status of Croatian veteran hospitals. The other thing I would like to look back on is a fact that was just brought out by a respected colleague Jovanovic. I would remind my colleague Jovanovic that I did not hear that he had anything against the fact that he was 6km from Omis three years ago or from Rab or Lošinj or to my Korčula should have set up oil platforms. In fact, the SDP has strongly advocated the implementation of a project to explore the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic area, deep within the territorial sea, I say close to the same island that it now says should not be set up to secure and set up a floating LNG terminal. What the Prime Minister and Minister have announced is that the way LNG terminals are being solved and built in Croatia here in the Croatian Parliament will be held in a way that will now go through LNG terminal law. Therefore, we expect completely transparently as parliamentarians that the Government in the Croatian Parliament should come with a law that would solve the problem of building a LNG terminal that has been spoken of in Croatia for a long time and which is a strategic Croatian energy project. I believe that all of us in Croatia are for the construction of LNG terminals as a new supply route of gas in Croatia. And in that sense, I support the government's position to come up with a whole solution that will enable the construction of LNG terminals. But I would like to remind you that now from the SDP we hear the words against the construction of this one terminal which, in terms of possible environmental pollution, is a lot of places and where more refugee than the dangers that threatened not only the Krk aquarium but the entire Croatian part of the Adriatic by setting up oil platforms that we were supposed to according to the competition project at the time to explore the exploitation of hydrocarbons obtained in the entire Adriatic area. And in the end, here's the thing I'm sorry about is that my colleague Petrov left, and I'm not going to have to deal with him except to say one thing, and that's that the fate of Agrokor is in the hands of his creditors, those who are today the real owners of Agrokor. In no one else's hands is the fate of Agrokor, but of the owners of the believers. It is the task of the extraordinary administration to prepare the settlement proposal in accordance with the Law on Extraordinary Administration, but the decision on whether this settlement will take place, what it will look like, who and how it will participate in the write-off and to what extent of debts or their own claims will be decided first by the religious council that will be appointed on the proposal of the extraordinary administration of the Commercial Court in Zagreb. I therefore believe that what this Parliament has adopted, and this is the Law on Extraordinary Administration, was in the function of preventing the collapse of Agrokor, which would be passed over to the entire Croatian economy and the financial system of Croatia, which was disabled and put into the hands of the current owners of Agrokor, which are believers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65878	We've got a violation of our colleague Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65879	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 238, the co-worker made a lie, not a full minute after I made it loud and clear that the SDP was not against the LNG terminal but was against the floating variant because in all documents, all decisions were told that it would be a land terminal. So you told the truth, we're not against, but we're against a floating terminal because all the documents of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia are talking about a land LNG terminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65880	Col. Jovanovic, it does not say in Article 238 that the carrying out of a false violation of the Rules of Procedure then almost every debate could find something that one of the MPs considered false so that there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to use that institute in the way you have done it now. We're going to the last debate, it's a respected colleague Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65881	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is known that Croatia today has about a million citizens of the second order or 1/4 of the population due to an extremely poor and corrupt executive law that allows the main debt to increase by more than 20 times. We live in a society where those who execute citizens are enormously rich in their account, which is lawyers, public notebooks, bankers and other parasites, declare themselves humanists while hundreds of thousands of citizens are allowed to live in unimaginable psychological torments. How is it possible that the law against which the entire Croatian public has been existing for 8 years, and even after the alleged changes, the number of blocked ones continues to increase as well as the total number of their debt? It is important to note that the Executive Law was passed in the term of the same minister who was established last year, so Minister Bosnjakovic, who therefore has the opportunity to correct his misdemeanour, but he, as we can see, has no will to do so. He's forming some kind of task force to calm the public down and we can see that this task force is not doing anything at all. They meet once in 3.4 months, and the law announces early 2019. Here we see a paradox, and this one, when it comes to writing a law for a tycoon, that's when the law is written for the weekend, from Friday to Monday, and the law is already in effect. When it comes to writing a law for a million Croatian citizens, then we can wait 9 years and ask what will happen after 9 years. I already know in advance what the opponent will say, so Mr. Todoric, Boss, he owes 40 billion kuna. And Croatian citizens owe 40 billion kuna. It's the exact same amount. So if that money was a motive for writing one law, lex Agrokor, then money can also be a motive for changing the executive law. It is clear, however, that even when these amendments to the Implementing Law are allegedly adopted that nothing will change because Minister Bosnjakovic has decidedly said he does not intend to exclude either lawyers or public notaries or an agency for the collection of claims from the executive procedure. Namely, on the show Open a few days ago, he said we're not gonna ban it, it exists elsewhere. So that something exists elsewhere, it's an automatic argument that it has to exist with us. When asked why public notebooks and lawyers are involved in the procedure of the case, he answers in order to relieve the judges. Here are the poor judges, they've got a lot of work to do, so they need to be relieved. And we know that there are 5 times more judges in Croatia on average than in Austria. There are more judges than is necessary and they can do this job as well as in all other European countries, as they have done before the adoption of the Implementing Law. So the question is, who are we getting rid of? Judges or citizens? I think we should dissipate the citizens first. In the end, I would like to say that it is amazing that even this existing Executive Law is not implemented, so it is misused in a way that, for example, secret actions are carried out, meaning actions in which you do not receive notice that the performance will be carried out, or dissuasion, then that Christmas and severance, jubilee awards and regresses are carried out and that according to the Executive Law are excluded from the performance. So we shouldn't be doing it, but they do it anyway. The solution would be that such fees are paid by hand but, as we know, it does not happen but are paid directly to the current account. For this reason, I would once again like to invite Minister Bosnjakovic and his working group to urgently and preferably accept amendments to the Executive Law, it would be best for the whole law to be rewritten. Of course, they are well, so they can wait not only until 2019, but until the day of judgment. Maybe we should block that task force, so maybe we should send them to the only real estate, maybe EOS Matrix,... And B2 capital was supposed to call 11 times a day, so make sure they found a solution by March 1st. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be enough for them for a month, only if they had to endure this terror for a month, be sure to find a solution, but of course they don't experience the torment of the people as their own, they're separated in their golden palaces by their brains, they're good and they're actually good at the very narrow group of people who have been rich on the people for eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65882	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65884	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to talk about children who are most often just declared swearing, and there are actually problems in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65885	Yeah, okay. So on behalf of the Bridge Club, we'll continue at 12.55. Thank you. [[It's 12:45.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.55 HOURS]] Here you go on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65887	I took a break on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists because I want to talk about the children, the children of refugees. So these are children who travel alone completely unprotected mainly from Asian countries exposed to various risks to their lives. These children are threatened and violated by the overall integrity of often completely deprived of personal dignity, the right to childhood and all rights that belong to childhood and child. It is precisely these children who rarely make up official statistics and missing children’s black numbers. At a meeting in Brussels when I heard that 10,000 children who entered Europe were registered and then disappeared, and that they were assumed to be actually 20,000, we wonder what kind of Europe is and what kind of West we are, how we took care of those we were supposed to care about, because they are the most vulnerable parts of our society. The everyday and unaccompanied feelings of children are filled with imperceptibility, fear for their own life and the life of their families. They have no means of protection, they cannot be expressed because of language barriers, they are often without basic education and literacy. Often, their parents paid for their irregular path to save at least their own country’s suffering. They come from war areas, extreme poverty and misery, the testimony of the death of their loved ones and the destruction of homes and lives. They meet with the death of their peers with a mission to reach the west of Europe, work and help their families. Children without escorts on the road are often targeted by smugglers and traffickers, becoming children of the street, begging and stealing to survive because they are forced to earn and repay debt for their journey. So what's the child without an escort? An unaccompanied child is a third-country national who is under 18 and who entered the Republic of Croatia without the escort of an adult responsible for him in terms of parental care in accordance with the legislation. And until such a person who will be a guardian in our country is put under care, and includes children who have lost their escort after entering Croatia, we are responsible for them. According to the UNHCR report on global developments in 2015, out of 65 million displaced persons, children accounted for 51%. So the most worrying is the fact that many children are separated from their parents and have traveled alone. A large number of children on the move are actually children registered and 95970 unaccompanied children who have requested asylum across Europe were registered in 2015. Why am I talking about this today? Do you know where we house children without parental escorts in the Republic of Croatia today? We do not put them in special centres where translators will be available in their language, psychological support, complete health care, education. We don't put them in homes, in children's homes where our children are without parental care, we put them in children's homes for children with behavioral disorders, in correctional homes. There we house these vulnerable children, children we find in Croatia. And you know what else? It's happening in Ivantz, it's happening in the Dugawas, it's happening in Karlovac. I talked to several social workers and talked to them and found out how difficult it was for them when they found two, three, four, and children and then in those homes there was no room and then in one night, and the only thing they had was the three, the four that had come together to Croatia separate each and every one of them into their home and break up there forever was another relationship they had. So, in 2009, the first Protocol on the treatment of children without parental escort was established, but only in collaboration with the two bodies of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Health. In 2013, we amend the Protocol on the treatment of children separated from parents who are certain steps in the handling and jurisdiction and obligations of all participants in the protocol. So from the entry of a child without an escort where he is found by police officers, the behaviour of experts from the welfare system, the implementation of a mandatory initial health check to accommodation in welfare institutions, to finding the ultimate solutions to return to the country of origin, mergers with family members, etc. In 2016, the protocol was changed and the representatives of the Centre for Missing and Abused Children were only involved in 2017. So we decided as a country that we would put them in nursing homes for children without adequate parental care, but also in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u65888	Thank you, colleague. Thank you. [[/Strenja Linic: It is a problem that we have to solve, which I warn and I think it is high time to treat these children humanely, because it is our duty. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69063	We now move to the agenda, first item: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 259 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 852. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the bill, respected Mario Antonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Plants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69064	Honorable MPs. In front of us is the presentation on the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure, it is about first reading. So this law is changed for several essential reasons, basically we know that entrepreneurship zones, perform certain types of entrepreneurial, economic activities, and this law actually defines the possibility of improved entrepreneurship infrastructures. The law prescribes the regulation of the infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia. The conditions are defined, which entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure should meet in order to obtain support for improvement and the same infrastructure and preconditions that need to be met in order to donate land owned by the Republic of Croatia, for any establishment, either to extend existing entrepreneurship zones. It is also defined to form a single register, as well as entrepreneurship infrastructures, as well as systematicised databases which are then available for different purposes. Some of the provisions of the law were actually subject to different interpretations, and consequently, they encountered certain implementation problems, and that is why we approached the amendments to the law. In a few points, we actually formed these important changes. One very important, therefore, perhaps mainly, is the inclusion of free zones as such in the entrepreneurship infrastructure system, making use of the existing well-developed infrastructure in these zones and thus obtaining status as well as other entrepreneurial support institutions. Secondly, and also very important, the obligation of intensity, activation, more than 2/3 and 66%, respectively, of filling existing entrepreneurship zones, which are more than 20 kilometers from the location where the new entrepreneurship zone is planned, which is looking for land donations in the Republic of Croatia. So, in fact, we are correcting one barrier, which means, in practice, that certain units of local self-government, which are active and successful in attracting entrepreneurs into these zones, are limited by inactivity of entrepreneurial zones in other units of local self-government, so we have eliminated this restriction by that criterion. I note, that there remains a condition of completion greater than 2/3 for existing zones within the same unit of local self-government. Also, it is essential that the founders of entrepreneurship infrastructure, according to new provisions, can also be natural persons, which has not been a practice so far. In more detail, the concepts of entrepreneurship infrastructure are defined, as different stakeholders, to which the law refers, interpreted certain concepts in a different way and the following concepts had to be defined. Therefore, the entrepreneurship zone, i.e. its total area, which is all involved, therefore, in an entrepreneurial full institution, as an entity aimed at creating a quality user-oriented entrepreneurship association in the Republic of Croatia, which implements programmes aimed at developing an entrepreneurial, category of entrepreneurship support institutions, e.g. business incubators, entrepreneurial incubators, incubators for new technologies, scientific technology parks, and the already mentioned free zones are added. Also, the law defines a new entrepreneurship zone, in one sense, but also an expansion of the existing entrepreneurship zone. In order to collect and record data in a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, more detailed data delivery obligations are defined and these obligations relate to the founder, i.e. the manager of the entity and the entrepreneurship infrastructure. The amendments also define control over the donated land of the Republic of Croatia, for the establishment or expansion of the business zone, and for the re-use of donated land. The adoption of all proposed amendments and the addition of the laws on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure will allow, above all, systematic and transparent definitions of the concepts of and infrastructure, determinations and more precise conditions for the establishment and expansion of entrepreneurship infrastructure entities. More precisely, the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, for the construction, i.e. the expansion of the entrepreneurial zone, i.e. infrastructure, and timely delivery of data for enrolment in the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Currently in the unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, 443 entrepreneurial zones were registered by the end of 2017, certified to have a total of 188, of which there are most small zones, 96 and micro zones 63, while the medium ones have a total of 18 and 11 large zones. We believe that the amendments to this law will enable exactly what is now stated in this opening statement. It's about first reading of the law, and I believe that turnout will be positive and the law will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69065	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas. First of all, the esteemed colleague Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69066	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Secretary of State, to be honest, I don't quite understand this amendment to the law because I've been sent back to a time since I was 10 years ago, so when I was director of a development agency that was actually engaged, and entrepreneurship, like some kind of social entrepreneurship infrastructure. One of the biggest problems was then, which was actually political, that at the time, in most of the HDZ granted both land and money for infrastructure to the very municipalities and cities, so where HDZ had the mayor and mayor. And now be careful why I'm telling you this. So, if you're watching, so one space that's final and it's fixed, so you can't cancel the 66% and 20 km criterion because you don't have a chance, so any investor comes to your area if you don't have other weights. So, modern theories of economic development, regional development tell you about so-called postulates of hot spots or actually tables to tell you in Croatian that not only quantify land, but look at the education system, availability, broadband Internet. So it's impossible for you in every area, every municipality and city just because of other criteria that in the modern economy of the 21st century are much more important than the mere land to move on to change the criteria. So I see here only one more favor to certain particular interests in Croatia, i.e. according to certain municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69067	Would you like to respond to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69068	To be honest, your finding shocked me because the Act of Entrepreneurial... institutions have been in place for several years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was in power both in the last and last governments. These amendments are intended primarily to remove the restrictions that have arisen in the implementation of that law. I do not touch any political connotations, and absolutely refuse any such connotations, because I personally have an example back two years as far as I am in that particular part of very, very active that, that it has assigned land, which for the establishment, which for the expansion of entrepreneurship support institutions was throughout Croatia regardless of local self-government, therefore to party membership. And the infrastructure you're talking about, to agree absolutely, the general infrastructure is very important. Education is very important, broadband Internet is very important. This only eliminates the restriction that and when we have, for example, two local self-governments, two municipalities in which one municipality has an active zone, so filled zones, and the radius of those zones passes to another municipality. And because of that 20km criterion in this community that's active, it wasn't possible, let's say, to donate land to create new zones. So, just that restriction is lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69069	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69070	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with my colleague Hajdash. So this is probably about the pressures of a few dozen commissioners that, as you've described here, some are a little more agile, some are a little less agile. But you now explain to me what the interest of the state is to divide the country on all sides, and within 20 km, two-thirds of the countries intended for entrepreneurship zones are not filled. So in other words, we're here right now in Mark's square and there's a zone that's not filled. If the state had land in New Zagreb, it could have given it to another municipality also the country to build a new business zone. There are no entrepreneurs here, and that's where they'll be. Why don't we first fill in that land that's already been donated? Which makes it possible for people to just fictitiously do something. I have an entrepreneurial zone, it's one of the main things. People boast as if they've done something, and what I don't know from 50, 100 ha in that zone has nothing to do with three entrepreneurs. See how much zone you have in Croatia, see how much their use is, see how much money we've given for these infrastructure projects and see if it's ever had, especially in 2004 to 2011 if it had anything to do with the market, but only in a political way it was allocated money and assigned land. On the other hand, I'm against the state's hand and hat giving real estate, giving land without the land being used. And that's why I don't think this is good. And one more thing, I think it's inadmissible, Mr. President, that the Minister never again comes to the Croatian Parliament to discuss such important laws. We hardly ever see her here except in the current hour when she goes against a few MPs like it was with her colleague Bul in the previous period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69071	Thank you. Third replica, do you want to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69072	Your Honor, I've answered that question in the past, so I can really see that you don't understand the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69073	The next replica is the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69074	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State I have a question about entrepreneurship support institutions, I'm actually interested in how this is not defined by this law, in which way you control the very need to set up entrepreneurship support institutions, primarily I mean incubators and centres. How do you control employment in the PSCs and how you measure their results, in fact, whether they justify the purpose of their existence. Because what, of course, honors exceptions, but what we often see in the field lately, which is that we have incubators that are founded and that survive for years have employees, actually have absolutely no results that are visible in their reports that regularly submit to their city council. So it can be seen that there is an incubator that has employed people, which has existed for several years, and they've absolutely never done anything. So I want to know how you intend to put an end to it, because the model of the PPJ, or the entrepreneurial support institution, is a phenomenal model that has also been brought to life in other countries. And I hope it's up to us, too, but I can see it's actually not happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69075	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm interested in my colleague Maras how MP Ninčević-Lesandric hurt his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69076	Not me. A colleague of Antholic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69077	But you raised your hand during the representative's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69078	Well, look, it's hard to process such a brief inaccuracy in such a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69079	But your brain works fast, you're late because you were careless... /Speakers speak at the same time./... That's not true, don't now please say something that isn't true. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69080	It was, how do you know it wasn't if I didn't say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69081	If there may have been a breach of the Rules of Procedure with Mr. Secretary of State, then you were too late, you should have been in that section before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69082	Okay. Then I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69083	Comrade Maras, now we're doing what one of our colleagues thinks the vice president said we're doing a circus... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69084	The colleagues who defend the laws here, so the man came here and the dead cold said that I don't understand the subject, the man who runs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69085	Okay, what's the injured Rules of Procedure in there?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69086	Well, the Rules of Procedure has been hurt that a representative should not be offended. Look, Buccarice, it's not funny you're rocking in that chair and laughing at what's not right. So you can't let the government's representatives come here and insult the MPs. So what isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure by a few articles?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69087	Well, colleague Maras, no injured Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a warning because you've abused...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69088	Because I fought not to be offended in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69089	No, because of that, but because you did it at the wrong time and the wrong way. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Please speak on behalf of the counseling club, don't put me in a position that I have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69090	So when I speak on behalf of the MPs' club, then I'll talk more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69091	No, no, I'm going to give you a strict measure that might make you not be able to speak on behalf of the counsel club. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Please, let's get this debate over with. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69092	Honorable MPs, frankly this law does not deal with the efficiency of established entrepreneurs... institutions as such, especially business incubators who are usually founded by local self-government, sometimes by private persons, therefore this law does not define it. The effectiveness of their purpose and purpose is, in any event, directed at other strategies and other documents. We know that business incubators will be formed over the next few years following a major competition that has been implemented. I believe that this is the right way for ideas and potentials to be innovative in the Republic of Croatia to accumulate right through these incubators, but to respond through the law on the efficiency of existing business incubators, I really don't have that power and that ingenuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69093	Next replica, respected representative Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69094	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State. This is one of the laws that is most important to us mayors and mayors, the leaders of the local self-government units who want to be undertaken, who want to develop entrepreneurial zones. In my area there is an entrepreneurial zone now we have 130 million kuna private investment, we want to develop further, but this law does not solve the most crucial and... What if a private plot is found in that construction area? So because of a couple of 200-,300-square plots, we've been prevented from further developing our entrepreneurial zones. But perhaps that is not the biggest problem again, the biggest problem from which to finance entrepreneurship zones. I assume you are aware that 15.1.2018 came up with an indicative annual call plan for the delivery of project proposals co-financed by the Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme, the development of business infrastructure, concrete investment in the construction of new elements of the basic and common additional infrastructures of existing zones. At the level of the Republic of Croatia, you have allocated 76 million kuna to co-finance the development of entrepreneurship zones. It says enough how much we as a state want to help local self-government units develop these zones at all. So we can have the best law that can best grant us land, but from what we can develop the basic infrastructure when the state at the level gives 76 million kuna, if we say that about a million and a half plague is one hectare of development, and total means the state co-finances 50 hectares at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69095	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69096	Your Honor, we are aware that this planned amount for the equipment of entrepreneurship infrastructure is not great, but I must say that similar tenders have already been carried out and last year, there will be more. What I must stress is that within the framework of the Programme, competitiveness and cohesion, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft have already called more than 80% of all available competitions and funds. In order to be able to amortise more resources into this programme, certain changes to the programme need to be made. I am sure that this will happen at the end of this year and I believe that for 2019 more resources will be available for infrastructure equipment of entrepreneurship zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69097	Let's move on, fifth replica of the esteemed colleague Kresimir Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Antonic. First of all, I listened to you carefully, you're trying and the state has been trying for many years to decree creating entrepreneurship zones. That's not how it works. Entrepreneurial zones are created, and based on location factors, that's your profession, that's what the waist will tell you. Location factors are things that affect entrepreneurial zones being created themselves in logical places. The state needs to help, not only by giving land, but also by helping the local infrastructure to develop the area normally. And it will develop where logic or capital imposes, not state. That's why it happened to you, not to you personally, but to the entire state that you left thousands and thousands of hectares of dedicated grant land to cities and municipalities empty, paper zones, on nothing else, and that a good part of the municipalities and cities of that state land simply without any sanctions being reused into construction, I can give you an example now I'm not going to mention anyone here Samobor first, you have a similar thing in Varazdin and created an additional value based on something he didn't conclude. And I'm very worried I have to say what Mr. Maras said, so here I am, thanks to the Internet era, quickly cornered and saw the portals carry that you were personally the owner of the craft or the companies that were in the blockade because of the debt not as Mr. Maras said, 500 000 someone 590 000 kuna. I'm interested and probably all of us here and the entire Croatian public is it true and if so, did you repay that debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69099	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69100	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. The fact is that this debt was one and that debt was canceled, no tax debt exists, and all this is old news and predicated snow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69101	... What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69102	We're not talking about climate change... Don't be angry, you're the secretary of state for entrepreneurship not for climate change, don't tell me about the snow, I asked you about the debt, if you owe, whether you paid back the debt, don't be boasting so much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69103	Comrade Whiteman, please. Wait a minute, please, let's calm down. So the Secretary of State answered the way he thought he was best, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I can't tell him for that either plus or minus, those who watch, listen, will assess whether it's good for him or not. He doesn't have to answer the question. [[Intruder Beljak: President, he must answer the question.]] So don't make up new rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69104	He had to go through a security check, so we know what the procedure is. If someone owed the state 600,000 kuna, they had to pass the check. You called me "I don't know what," so here you see, that's 600,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69105	Comrade Beljak, you are not in the Parliament very often. Then come. And you're doing incidents. [[Beljak: There's me in Parliament, only you don't see well.]] I don't want to argue with you this way, there are rules of the game that someone wrote and we stick to these rules of the game and I ask you to just like all the other 150 MPs and you. Comrade Maras, I'm asking you to do the same. We move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69106	Dear Secretary of State, when you spoke of moving the criteria of these 20 kilometers, I remember four years ago when this law was passed, I was just warning what would happen. And now listening to these replicas, I remembered a detail. When that amendment of mine on removing that criterion was rejected, leaving the assembly then, the Deputy Minister seems to me to be Drazen... If his name was, he came up to me and told me a sentence still ringing in my ears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He told me you know, I think you're still right, but politics did it. And now we see here what politics has done. Politics has done the law exactly which is in force and which we are now going to change, your ministry, which has blocked 4 years of business development and in the explanation you have cited this law, what is the whole set of requests for the assignment of state property, land owned in the area of units of local self-government throughout Croatia. And just like this, when politics determines, prevents and prevents the development and entrepreneurship zones and the creation of jobs and the filling of the state budget. And we're also witnessing today's debate about how this was happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69107	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69108	Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric hurt the Rules of Procedure, 238, doesn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69109	Comrade Maras, it does not say in Article 238, it is already your colleague Jovanovic tried, it does not say that not telling the truth is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69110	No, as is normal, it's like I'm saying that Klaric came up to me here now and said Karamarko was real and that Plenkovic belonged more to the SDP, approximately. It's still ringing in my ears as Klaric told me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69111	Comrade Maras, I warn you now, I will take your word from you if you don't stop acting like this. There's a Rules of Procedure I'm going to act on, and I'm going to stick to it. You are now in the part where you can take away your word for the rest of the debate on this point and I am now warning you that if you do this again, I will take away your words for other advocates who stick to the order. Let's move on, the last replica is dear fellow Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69112	Thank you very much. Secretary, you're talking about the entrepreneurial infrastructure of this law, but this is going to be a brake of entrepreneurial infrastructure, you're simply talking about a law where for all zones, the state gives 76 million kuna, when we calculate how much daily it was given to Agrokor and Todorovic, I mean, not a daily amount of money that was supposed to be pumped into Agrokor to bring down the economic and entrepreneurial system. And I'm sorry she's not the economy minister here, too. I'd have to ask her about this case. The economy to develop, this law is an ordinary pamphlet with no cover, no funds in the budget, the fact that other laws are not simply adapted to the development of the economy mainly in undeveloped areas, how this law will be implemented when certain zones, if the entrepreneur wants to run and you declared Drniš a developed area, half-like that they are developed, of course they will have the advantage of those declared to be developed. Therefore, this law provides for resources for zones, nor for infrastructure, better be that roads such as those for example. Here is Ravca-Drvenik, it would be developing in Vrgorec entrepreneurship zone and the hinterland. If it were a date to Sinj of Kukuzovac, it would be developing entrepreneurial zones. If it were according to Knin, it would be developing entrepreneurial zones, Drnish, if it were a compound on the highway, it would develop those places and have a workforce, like this, we don't. Neither entrepreneurs nor workers. As a result, the biggest unemployment rate is for example. in Split-Dalmatia, in these areas such as in Trill and other parts, that's right. These are measures that don't make sense, and I'm sorry that it's not the Minister here if it was the Peru thermal power plant and the Vis Viva project, you'd probably be here, and probably, no matter what she's not asked, she'd answer. This is a serious problem, this law is a law that will destroy entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69113	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69114	Your Honor, I would not agree with you that this law is a pamphlet of any kind, this law is the result, i.e. the amendments and addition of the law are the result of work on the ground and asking, above all, the units of local self-government and the answer to their demands, that where there is entrepreneurial activity, it is possible to grant state property, i.e. land above all and to facilitate and facilitate an entrepreneurial idea in a particular area. And everything else, it's not the subject of this law and I can't comment on the other comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69115	This brings us to the end of the line. And now I call on the committee's rapporteurs, that if they want to take a word? Since they don't want to, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and respected colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69116	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Today, we have the Act on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, which in fact only defines the concepts within entrepreneurship infrastructure, therefore, entrepreneurship support institutions, which are incubators, technological parks, zones, accelerators, entrepreneurship centres. As far as he's concerned, I'm going to refer to certain articles that I think we should discuss and change. We will bite at the same and propose amendments and changes until the second reading. However, first of all, I want to take this opportunity to talk about an entrepreneurial support institution, which, unfortunately, there are growing problems of today, which are rarely told, and in the Parliament, we almost never have the opportunity to talk about it. In particular, I think of business centres and incubators, which are established to help entrepreneurs beginners, but also to improve the entrepreneurship climate in Croatia, and especially when we talk about incubators, where the word incubator itself, is talking about incubating, so entrepreneurs and providing full advisory and technical support, plus the job they need for them to operate and fight for their place on the market. So when we talk about PP, here's what I asked the secretary of state, how the whole problem is controlled and regulated, he himself said they don't actually have these mechanisms, which I think is very bad. It's clear to me that this law has not defined it yet, but there may be an opportunity to put it into law or to find some models that we're going to control. And I'm saying this for a reason, because I know the PP's work very well on the ground. I will say right away, every honor and entrepreneurial support institutions that do their job in quality, these are people to talk about and which should be regularly pointed out as positive examples. However, and unfortunately, as it is in Croatia, we are also facing that worse side of entrepreneurial support institutions, so I will start with the incubator, since in Solin, there is an incubator, which already exists for 4 years. It is very easy to see from their reports that they submit to the city council, and you also have financial documents, so one view of their RDG, the account and the loss is all clear to you. So, when we take their 2016 report, which is here, you can see here, therefore, that incubator is throughout the year 2016, so I mention 4 people, who, neatly every month, receive their salary first in the month, so they receive the budget salary, the salary paid by taxpayers, who pay them to help them, so throughout 2016 they wrote 1 project, which they reported to their city. So they wrote 1 project that they reported to their city, which is 100% financed by the project. Four people who have worked neatly for years. So when the councilmen on that city council asked them, well, I mean, are you embarrassed? You did something this year. You know what they said? We did. We have arranged for the feast of lambs and fireworks. My people in Croatia are an entrepreneurial support institution, organizing fireworks and lamb. An entrepreneurship support institution, therefore, an institution that should support entrepreneurs, organises lamb and fireworks. Well, that's so embarrassing, I was even thinking about whether I'd mention it in my speech today. So that's what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, such entrepreneurship support institutions, we have more and more, because there is no way to regulate it, so JLS is setting up entrepreneurial support institutions that come to mind, without any analysis, without any need for them to really be established. And that's worse because they hire people who have nothing to do with what they're supposed to do. So let's start with their profession. So look, people who work in entrepreneurial support institutions, especially in incubators and centres, rarely any of them at all, almost none, of the economic professions. And I'm sure absolutely no one came from the real sector because I know it. Speaking of incubator Solin, you have four people incubating entrepreneurs, and their first job is incubator Solin. How they're going to incubate entrepreneurs, so that man doesn't know what the real sector is. He hasn't been through the company in his life, through the crafts, or worked in the real sector. He incubates entrepreneurs, a man whose first position is an incubator. What are we talking about? You need to find a way to regulate it. So it's just that this is becoming a huge problem. I know that there are incubators of the centers, who are doing their job great, and really, if they don't have them I don't know what this whole entrepreneurship infrastructure would look like, but as far as these bad ones are concerned, and unfortunately, it seems to me that more and more, you just have to find a model, whether it's going to be implemented on this bill or you're going to find some kind of model rule, I'm leaving it to you to choose. But I hope by the second reading we have a solution to this problem. As far as the law itself is concerned, then, in Art. 24. says, in the case of land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new and expansion of an existing business zone, i.e. by the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which covers a decision on the establishment or, by the founding act of the entrepreneurship zone, the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, for the construction of a new or expansion of an existing entrepreneurship zone, is justified only if the total amount activates inaccessible areas of all entrepreneurship zones within the unit area of local self-government is 60% of the total available area of all entrepreneurship zones. What I'm interested in is what criteria are actually defined as what is 66% of the active entrepreneurial zone? In fact, you should know that very well. It often happens that within the entrepreneurship zone, in fact it's agreed to all 100%, the entire entrepreneurship zone, and in fact nothing is built yet, for the reason that when the investor goes into his entrepreneurial venture, this country is minimuming it from year to year literally a door-to-door train. And it's just unreal to expect that man to start realising his investment. Now what happens at that moment? Entrepreneurial yapi zone is empty. It's all arranged and nothing's built. So I'm curious to know what exactly the 66% activation criterion is for you? The second thing, entrepreneurship zones of particular economic interest set up in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article represent those entrepreneurship zones whose size of available and free area is at least 50 ha. I think we need to cut these 50 ha, because it's actually too much of a criterion for entrepreneurial zones of particular economic interest. As regards the JRPI, therefore, the unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructures that you have on your website and which should actually enable investors to see available entrepreneurship zones and all PPIs when they go to the JRPI. The portal actually doesn't work the way it should, because you can when you enter the JRPIs and the PPIs, so when you click the entrepreneurial zones he tells you very much what they are entrepreneurship zones, and it leads you to a link to their website, and actually most of these websites don't work. Therefore, the JRPI should be the auditor of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions on which each investor was a foreigner or a Croat has a view of all these zones, which is their availability and what are the conditions that should be met in that zone in order to realise its investment. So, JRPI doesn't work. I would ask you to come to our second reading here with information that you have reviewed the unique register of entrepreneurial infrastructure that all of those websites that lead to links of entrepreneurship zones actually have been enabled. And as for the last paragraphs of this article, which are penalties we will go here with the amendment, so that all these penalties that you have prescribed in this law can only be realised after previous warnings and counselling. It makes no sense for entrepreneurs to pay such fines without having had the option to warn or advise them on their mistakes before. It is commendable that this law is one thing, which is that finally the natural persons will be able to set up the PPJIs, because personally when I set up an entrepreneurial support institution, I passed a little bit and told the Calvary because, as someone from the private sector, I wanted to open an entrepreneurial support institution, then I was the second in the country precisely because this law was meant for the establishment of JLS, so the units of local self-government, not privates, which is wrong. So I'm going to point out again that in an entrepreneurial incubator, an entrepreneur can't incubate a person who's never had a real-life relationship with the real sector, and that's more if it's her first job. Unfortunately, entrepreneurial incubators and centres with an emphasis on those who do their job phenomenally. But unfortunately, more and more institutions seem to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69117	We have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69118	Thank you very much. Representative Ninčević, you said that the problem is the meaning of the entrepreneurial incubators they receive, so regular pay, you said the example of Solin. So it's a cute entrepreneurial incubator said in Solin although it's a realistically speaking family-party incubator, both in the entire Split-Dalmatia County and it's good to choose always the same people in Split-Dalmatia County not only in Solin because the costs are lower. All the people in the family who work in the county are in the institutions that the county owns, i.e. companies. So it's nice to hear, but it's the fact that they're family-party incubators. That's clear to say, you mentioned Solin, and so is the entire County of Split-Dalmatia. That's very clearly said, that's what I said when I had to speak and I'll always repeat it. But you said this obstacle, this is the first reading. I hope that 66% of the construction will have to be so that another area can appear at all, so that someone can build it. In fact, there is a limit to the possible development of entrepreneurship at another location. I think it's such a non-serious thing. In fact, this law is the whole point of development in me being an entrepreneur. 76 million kuna for all zones only in the national budget, so I'm sorry she's not a minister here. Once again, she should be asked, however, by Mrs. Dalic, she is a major expert in thermal power plants and other projects such as Peru. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69119	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69120	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, you mentioned a lot of parts of my exposure, but I'm going back to what I think is the most critical problem today with entrepreneurial support institutions. This is exactly this example that we have now set from the Solin incubator where people who work in the incubator have never had contact with the real sector, people who are employed are their first work experience, and their purpose is to incubate entrepreneurs. So, these entrepreneurs get close to all those conditions and remove the obstacles that await them on their way to realising their ideas. And what's worst of all is that exactly entrepreneurial incubator in Solin in his report to the city council so coldly said that they organized lamb and fireworks. But there's no place in Europe for an entrepreneurial incubator to organize fireworks and lamb. It's so embarrassing to me, I'm going to say it again that I've even thought about even mentioning how pathetic and sad it is. So, entrepreneurial support institutions need to serve what their purpose is for my people. So let's look at other countries. So Macedonia is the fifth in the world under investor conditions precisely because their entrepreneurial support institutions do their job, they certainly do not organise fireworks and lamb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69121	Second replica, dear fellow Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69122	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesandric, here's a short contribution to part of your debate regarding the PPI itself. I agree with you, you have set a negative example, but there are also many positive examples. And I can agree in part with you that perhaps in this part or some other law or perhaps whether a regulation or regulation should also define certain qualifications and competences of people working in PPIs. Because we have examples of these everywhere, unfortunately, but we have very many positive examples. Let's say specifically where people are highly educated, licensed and for EU project leaders. So he can work out a business plan for companies, etc. I believe that what you have cited as a negative example that people possess certain competences and licenses, that it would not happen, that we would have jobs because obviously there are needs, so maybe here's a proposal if you can install in this part of the law who can work in PPI because it's a positive side. We are particularly aware of the small, medium-sized entrepreneurship especially those companies start ups or let's say they are a little financially bad, such a service especially if it is subsidized by the state or by local self-government, commendable and welcome. However, if a business plan or running for some European fund tender is done by persons who are not professional in that part, there will obviously not be any results. So I say here's the secretary of state if there's room until the second reading to give some kind of frame that can be employed in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69123	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69124	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I agree, I immediately said in my presentation that there are PPIs that do their job well and that as much media should highlight them as positive examples because we really lack it. But that doesn't mean we don't have to put an end to those who take advantage of it. I agree with what you said because it was a proposal in my presentation to try to find some sort of installation in this law in fact the way we're going to regulate it and control that in PPI we don't prey on party people, but to hire those who have competences and who have professions or references, who have already worked in that segment and that they can certainly help develop PPIs. If we find a way to develop the PPIs in a positive way, it's one way to improve the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia because you can't expect someone who has no idea what an incubator should do to one entrepreneur on the ground because they don't know. Whatever he is and he's the best in the world he can't help when he doesn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69125	We are going to a second debate of the club, it is the club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69126	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I must indeed express my personal satisfaction and the pleasure of the club which is such an important law for the Republic of Croatia and I will dare say a word to all units of local self-government in this way came into the parliamentary procedure trying to correct something that has been passed whether for political reasons or for part of the ignorance and modality of the way in which construction works, the expansion of business zones in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions that in this law change among other things are in favour of all those, all of us who advocate decentralisation and the descent of certain decisions at the level of units of local self-government on a base. The proposal for a law that is before us, it defines in detail the concepts of entrepreneurship infrastructure and details the conditions and additional criteria for the establishment and expansion of infrastructure entities. What is particularly important is the point and in which I will, in several examples of practice, seek to demonstrate during this exhibition that this is the essence and essence of the development of business areas in the Republic of Croatia, these are the conditions that need to be met even when available to land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The law prescribes... delivery of data on entrepreneurship infrastructure for users of all support under the Ministry's programme which is part of a single register of entrepreneurship infrastructure by the state administration body, institutions, local self-government units, regional self-government, founders and entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Support institutions are something that needs to be highlighted and, within the meaning of this law, they are also considered to be the base of the infrastructure as an entrepreneurial zone. And the consequence of this law, as pointed out in the opening statement of the Secretary of State, will be a systematic and transparent definition of the concepts of entrepreneurship infrastructure, it will be clearly prescribed, i.e. the conditions and criteria for the establishment of the expansion of entrepreneurship infrastructure entities, the definition of the delivery of data on entrepreneurship infrastructure, the single register of entrepreneurship infrastructures and the simpler solution to the problem of land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the context of business zones. In order to take a closer look at the quality of this issue, and if we look at exactly the key article that I think is the essence of these amendments and additions, this is Article 24 which is changing and defines in a completely new way the model of land availability within the scope of business zones owned by the Republic of Croatia. As proposed, these amendments to the law are also said and the percentage of 66% is mentioned again. I'm asking now why 66%, why not 50%? Because if we see that the business zone within its scope has received agreement and its regional self-government, then the county, has been given the consent of the ministry as such to become an integral part of the local self-government unit's spatial plan as such and has been verified. I think a sufficient indicator of the performance of each of the individual business zones is that 50% because every new business entity, every new activation of new land in that space, is a new element that shows the efficiency of filling that area. This article also mentions something which would dare to say some kind of linkage and a mild transition from the current provision of those unfortunate 20km in the circle and business zone, which essentially blocked any requirement for the assignment of state land in the area of a single unit of local self-government, however successful for a simple reason because it summed up all areas, all business zones, in the field of practically 5, 6 or more units of local self-government. So, the successful ones who had a percentage and over 66% for a simple reason, which, in addition to the sum of their surface, were entangled by business zones of neighbouring local self-government units. It was impossible to meet that criterion, and for this very reason you came to what you stated in the reasoning of the law, that a whole series of demands by local self-government units, which could not be fulfilled, then approached by these changes. My suggestion, i.e. the proposal in front of the club, will also be to consider the provisions of this amendment and the addition of the law, where the extension is also limited, i.e. the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the business zone, because in the scope of that area, for which the donation is sought, the areas and other zones are added. But now not within 20 kilometers of that local self-government unit. And I'm going to give you a concrete example, explain why it's practically inconclusive. We have now, here's a specific case in my city, we have an investor request for 100,000 square meters of land. In my unit of local self-government 4 are business zones, long-term development strategies in the 10-year plan. They're planning to put all those into operation. At this point 2/3 of that area are completed and within that space there are squares of that land but are state-owned. If you count the surfaces of these other 3 zones, it is impossible to meet this criterion. And I suggest that every business zone is seen as a single unit. And that's the only thing that's reasonable, and that's the only thing that makes sense, and that's the only thing that we're fighting with is us doing it operationally, operating infrastructure, that we're filling in from the beginning to the end. And the results of any such thinking are very visible in the field. And here I am not going to talk about some party adjective, because I think the mayors and the mayors, i.e. the local self-government unit, cities and municipalities in the entire Republic of Croatia, are very well considering their development, regardless of whether it was a mayor of SDP, HDZ, HNS, IDS or any party. So, a concrete proposal, let's not sum up areas at different locations, because it just doesn't make sense. And anyone who has ever negotiated with any investor knows that such a thing cannot be fulfilled. And another problem that stands out and should certainly be mentioned here. That's what we can often talk about, and that's an unsettled cadastre, unsettled property, unsettled land books. So, within all these includes business zones, as much as we all want them to function as soon as possible, we will find lands that are private owned, which do not have a registered owner, which are across Europe, the world, or I don't know where they are inhabited, where first they have to get rid of their land and there's that instrument, which some of us both knew and served. That certain such particles, which are impossible to resolve by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are declared of special interest and thus come into operation. So when we talk about these business areas, when we talk about the development of any unit of local self-government, we need to look at what is done on the ground and what are the obligations of those who put this land and that infrastructure into operation. Since the resolution of property legal relations, from the preparation of spatial plans, urban plans, the respect of all these long and painful legal procedures, in order to make it possible at all to put something into operation, we also come to the issue of ownership, including this part of state property, and then the real work is just beginning. Real work in terms of project solutions,... projects, outcomes, I don't know what kind of permits, building infrastructure, investing in a lot of resources, mostly from the budget of local self-government units, in order to allow any such terrain to be put into economic function and withdraw the investor on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all kind of unimportant problems, viewed from a state level, very simple, but believe me, from those who are operating on the ground, it's very, very painful, long-term and difficult. I really don't see why and why I'm worried about any donation of that land owned by the Republic of Croatia or giving at the disposal of the units of local self-government, when in the very process of this donation we have a very firm argument. We have a contract, because the state and government of the Republic of Croatia never made a decision and said, "Here's your property." Yes, we signed donation contracts, but every donation contract, it had an article that bound units of local self-government, and in this bill of yours, it stands. So this land that was donated, it couldn't be sold in what way, but the funds had to be spent on the space of these spatial zones, for its further development. And if it wasn't put into operation, watch out for this argument, it had to return to ownership of the Republic of Croatia. So it's not like someone's giving someone something for nothing, so he can play with it any way he wants. However, the strong instruments that are units of local self - government were required to respect such a function. Because I'm sure that here regardless of the party omens of all of us sitting here, but also all of us who have done such a thing on the ground, who have fought to attract a single investor to the space of our industrial zone, we're going to think very carefully, to support these changes to the law. And I ask you, Secretary of State, to think carefully about this proposal that I have pointed out to you, to reduce this unfortunate percentage of 66%, to get rid of these other areas in the area of the local self-government unit, which you have already kept. Because every business zone needs to be seen as one whole. You simply can't tell the investor who comes to you asking for 30,000 square feet of land to invest in your area, opening several hundred jobs saying that you know we have it, but in three different locations. Your investor is a timid slave, he comes, he knows what he wants, and he's looking for something that he can quickly realize. If you can't make it happen quickly, he's just leaving. We have countless such examples, so here, among other things, this automotive industry in Slovakia in its own time they were also with me to look at the terrain, simply at that moment we had the land areas they needed, but 90% of these areas were owned by the Republic of Slovakia, we've been doing it for six years, and within that space were a huge number of particles owned by a couple of hundred to several thousand square meters and simply the investor went to another country and I'm sure there are still such examples in the Republic. I really don't want to call anyone, but when adopting laws like this, which are of strategic interest to our citizens, which generate job openings, which generate the budget of local self-government units, which generate the state budget, should be approached extremely seriously. For example, the last changes to this law were when we introduced this criterion, when we practically blocked all of us with a few moves in preparing and dragging investors into the area of cities and municipalities in those parts of the business zone where the ownership of the Republic of Croatia was simply impossible to meet that 66% criterion and that 20km in a circle. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69127	Thank you. Before the replica to the presentation of colleagues Klaric, we will welcome the students of the High School from Zabok, the principal and professors, the third class of tourism that are with us on my left. ... Now we can continue our work. [[Applause.]] So the first replica is a replica from a colleague of Mark Veseligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69128	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's counterpart Klaric, you're probably every man I'm going to say shapes somehow his environment from which he comes from, and you're coming from a town located near the great city of a strong economic area of Rijeka, so you're probably speaking from that aspect too. And certainly in your area in the Zagreb ring around large cities and still in some areas there are entrepreneurial areas that are extremely pro-pulsive, so the aspect of this is probably also in some ways your observations. But what I want to say is, I believe that business zones in general in Croatia have been doing in some way a verse, that we have not done a proper analysis of neither the market nor the real needs of private investors, so when we look at Croatia as a whole. Because look at the state level we're supposed to have about a thousand 300 business zones, we're investing in about 600, it's an active 450. So it's obvious that we have too much, that we haven't done those real perspective business zones that we're going to invest in, and there's really huge resources in, and we have, I don't really have data right now, but I'm very sorry to say that it's only empty land. I understand, I'm the same mayor, I understand the Commissioner and some smaller municipalities that want to have a zone, but it's not realistic that we have so many zones, it's not real because it's not even a centralised policy. We need to concentrate on those cities that have this one perspective, of course economically strong, not just cities, but municipalities. Here is the secretary of state I also welcome, coming from such a municipality that definitely has this strong potential for investment in the economy, so I only expected there to be more legislation going on. We have another one to close the remarks, which is Article 30 to renege on the violation of the provisions of the state. I don't think that's good, it's even unconstitutional. We had recently also at the level of our associations, our cities, the municipalities of that lawsuit against the state about municipal fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69129	Thank you, fellow Vesligaj, thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69130	I always find it strange when someone here in the Parliament or someone on the side of the ministry is saying we have too many business zones in the Republic of Croatia. Who cares if they're defined in a spatial plan in the city or in the municipality? If they're not filled, they may not be filled in at the moment, but they're ready because every investor is important, believe me. As each investor starts its investment, it immediately starts the cycle from the projectors to the infrastructure builders to the final investor who will come and hire someone. And what bothers these zones so much? And when you talk about big or small cities, my example, we have the price of squares of land from 50 to 120 euros, but let's say at the Pleternica in Slavonia it's between 1 and 2 euros. Why not the ones who want to invest there? Maybe there's no interest at this point, but why stop this city that has development plans from having a business zone? He may not be able to fill it at the moment, but there will come a time when an investor will appear to whom you will be able to say here I have. It's me, it's Rovinj, it's doing it in Istria, it's doing it wherever you fill in business zones is always doing it, and I believe you're doing it too, preparing the ground. You don't know who's coming to him, you don't know who, I don't know which investor I'm going to show up at my 260 thousand squares that are now ready and waiting for them. But when they show up, I say I got 'em, here you go. You have water, electricity, sewerage, gas, you can start building, you can open jobs, you can make a public contribution to the city's budget, you'll pay the state taxes. It's the only place I see the possibility of developing this country, of opening jobs, and of preventing it from going to the young people you're all talking about so loudly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69131	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69132	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, the problem with us is that everything is done on feeling, on filling, maybe it won't come, I have to have ready and there's no analysis or market I'd say simulation, or any projects that would say there's a chance here, there's no chance here. It all comes down to the old Croatian principle of something might happen and then when it is state-owned, then resources are used in the way everyone thinks they can, why the state wouldn't give it to Boris, why wouldn't they give Klaric, why not give Batinić, etc., now that I'm not counting on the first look that fell, the mayors and the mayors. Because there's no reason if the 20 or 10km to 100 zone stands empty that the state is now giving its own country that has already given it a month or a year or 5 years. Which means he's more capable, he's more incompetent, what does that mean? Then we should take this country that is incompetent and then give it to another country and not to everyone so that at this moment we have 1300 entrepreneurial zones in Croatia. 1300. Well, one of the main projects of every major who's ever been elected to Croatia is to have an entrepreneurial zone. The fact that there's nothing there, nobody cares and why the state would support it, because of one or two of the commissioners who can't get to the space right now, so why don't these commissioners help their colleagues... and direct these entrepreneurs, so they'll be working again from their city and community because 20 kilometers of people don't choose where they come from and work from the community to the community, it doesn't make any sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69133	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69134	Comrade Maras, you mentioned the key word feeling. The state loves each other and these are feelings, when someone gets caught up in a job and wants to create something, then they do everything with a feeling and prepare projects and builds infrastructure and attracts investors and opens up jobs because they just love this country, loves their end, loves their city, and we catch up with those duties simply for reasons, whoever went consciously into this job and wants to do something about it. You're an excellent speaker, I'm sure your speeches love to listen to millions of citizens in and out of the Republic of Croatia, but when you represent these attitudes and when you pass a law like this, it's a good thing you don't get caught up in these kinds of things. It's simply because when someone does something like that and doesn't have feelings for it, it takes hundreds of smart people to fix something like that and years to pass until such changes of laws can be made that allow things to begin to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69135	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69136	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I imitate your debate entirely because the entrepreneurial zone seen by you as the Mayor of Bakar, your zone in Kukuljanov is not the same as the view of someone let's call him an official in the ministry or in some other bodies... And that's what we're talking about today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can we agree to do something that is best for everyone because, by respecting the discussions on the other side, we see a mostly negative view of this story and when we look at the data, we can say that for some stake of 700 million kunas in the infrastructure plus some x value of donated land in these zones, how many are there that, 50,000 jobs, whether 50,000 employees return each month to the state budget or to the budget of local self-government of certain values. Are we going to observe the whole story in this way or are we going to come down to five failed entrepreneurial zones that someone has failed to fill and tell this project is wrong? Or do we want to think positively and say what you said, if I've filled in a certain area and I need more space because I have the necessary communal infrastructure that I'm going to put into service again very quickly, so you're going to limit me to 50% because I have to fill in all the others that I have in my space because there I have to rebuild everything, so all the communal infrastructure that's expensive, or is it easier for me to add something else here, so let's do something? So let's be life-saving, be those operatives, employees, mayors, and get this story out of the way whether local self-government is part of the state or not, and to whom this state gives something, itself or local self-government is some kind of organization out of state. So let's get out of these relationships because they always lead us in the wrong direction. I think your debate was correct and the ministry certainly needs to discuss it or consider whether it's basic, I think it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69137	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69138	Dear fellow Boric, I always speak to you, and I will repeat to you, in this sort of thing, I think we should gather our heads and erase what we, you, them, because simply all of us must be the sole goal of our citizen, our workplace, our budgeting, the attraction of investment and construction and those social infrastructures in order to enable people to have a pleasant life. Here, when you talk about the Bakra area, the geostrategic position has Miklavlje in Matulji as well as this one, there is a Queen, there is a Chavele, there are neighboring municipalities and cities. But they don't have that fullness that we have. Why limit them in that part of the summation of all these surfaces because these two neighbors are not filled and this one is? It is therefore necessary to enable everyone and then it is up to each of the leaders of the local self-government units to be able to implement their project and, ultimately, the only and the right assessment after 4 years is given to them by its citizens and voters in the elections. And that's the taste of the story. We don't have much to discuss. It is known how business zones are filled, know which property-legislative relations are handled, know how infrastructure is built. If you don't have a field, if you don't have a built infrastructure, if you don't have a story and what colleague Maras told you is a sense of that story, then it will never be filled in, but if the state gave you land and you haven't filled it in within five years, you'll have to give it back to that same state because you signed it in the contract. The state didn't give you anything like this, so play with it and it's the taste of this story. And supporting changes to the amendments to this law because it will make it easier for those who do so so that they can deliver faster and later... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69139	Thank you. The next replica is the replica of counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69140	Thank you. I would absolutely agree with you to remove the collection system of all areas of entrepreneurship zones in the area of units of local self-government for land allocation. However, this percentage of 66% of the fill-up of the economic zone needs to be defined mainly because certain economic zones are built in phase. And if we imagine now that we have a 100 ha zone, where we have 50 ha communally equipped we can't look at these 66 on these 100 ha total zones. So that should add one item to view that percentage of the area where the infrastructure is built and where a useful permit has been obtained for that infrastructure, not the whole procedure because you later restrict us to land allocation in some other areas. And I know about your debate you have touched on a topic related to declaring strategic interest in the particles private in the economic areas. I know about this procedure, I was at the Ministry of Economy at the end of last year, and really that procedure is very big and very long to bear. But it is not clear to me that such a bill cannot be incorporated into the provisions of the Road Act which I speak to us and the leaders of the unit of local self-government because we all know as the leaders of the unit of local self-government that this law is very welcome in the installation of such infrastructure, that similar to some of the provisions in such a bill we generally address at the level of Croatia the whole problem, not that we individually make proposals to the Government for individual particles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69141	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69142	Here's a colleague I agree with you. There's something else that obviously the ministry and the legislators of the law and here when it looks at it from the top will never see that part of the problem. So you within the scope of, I assume that you have more business areas in your unit of local self-government, you don't just have land that's yours from the municipality or the city, there's no land just which one's from the state. You have another story. Inside that range of land is private property. Now, adding up the state, adding up the municipal and collecting private property who can live up to that criterion. Then there's no point in looking for land at all, give up building because you won't be able to realize it for the next ten years. In this way, the legislator must think, and we are here who are the people we are making, voting for that law. And I think it's very supportive that the ministry has people like our IDS colleagues who were the leaders of a local self-government unit like you, such as SDP leader, HSS, HNS who know what that means. So if they listen to us doing it on the ground, then the law can be high-quality and efficient. And this is a good way to do a proper decentralisation, because only in the case of us would you give the mother a diet, so you'll see how well she gets fat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69143	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69144	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, before his colleagues in replicas, said that you must be the person who can speak of this matter as relevant and I congratulate you on everything you have done as mayor of Bakru. I agree with you, you've made a good point. We pointed out together the stupidity of those 20 kilometers when the law was passed by the current one that was not yet applicable and which was to say the discriminatory type related to local self-government. It really doesn't make sense to limit someone because someone in the neighborhood is doing something or not. I would expand here in fact what you said not only 66%, but even as soon as it's in the spatial plan, as soon as the local self-government has done, it puts such a zone into space no longer harassing it. You don't know what kind of entrepreneur will come in, what infrastructure he'll need, what the road will look like in that area, where he will house the facilities, which he will deal with. And then you build the infrastructure, the entrepreneur comes, and then what? Break it all together. And an entrepreneur is not brought in that you know it well overnight. That can take three, four, five years to do it all. And I'm connecting this bill, these changes to the law with the State Property Act. The other day we discussed it. Now with this law, okay. We're making things a little better, but we're still limiting local self-government. And again, what my colleague Boric just said happens. State and local self-government, so for God's sake, it's all one body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69145	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69146	Well, here's colleague Hrg, I don't need to be congratulated, but I need to point out one other thing. Not to me in my town or yours or any of ours. The mayor is kind of congratulating and he's guilty of good and bad. It should be pointed out that what we're doing is not done by the mayor, nor by the captain by the army of men. The army of people, therefore, officials in these units of local self-government, people who are operationally preparing projects, which solve property-legal relations, which go to the catastran daily, grantovnica, extract thousands and piles of paper, designers, supervision. People who do our job, that's our idea to congratulate them, and for them we do it for their children because they are our citizens too. And another problem that should certainly be highlighted here, which affects all of us. This is a government regulation and the Agricultural Land Act and spatial plans until 1991. That's what I've been saying for years. If the state was created in '91, if we built all the spatial plans, if these spatial plans define what is building land, which is agricultural land then we stick to it, and not at any time any city or municipality knows when the State's Attorney's Office will have something that is now listed in the land books owned by the local self-government unit anywhere in Croatia, because, as you can imagine, by the spatial plan, by '91. It was farmland and now it's not more than business zone space, just imagine. That's the kind of problem we have. We have problems with the State's Attorney's Office at this time books on some municipalities and cities and cemetery at the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69147	Thank you. Replication and replica is from fellow Tully Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klaric, since here you are your debate I will tell the debate on the basis of your success in the realization of your industrial zone, however, I expected you to perhaps as an experienced mayor to warn all the problems that are just to be realised more quickly and efficiently. I also support what you said, that this law goes towards decentralisation and you said that it finally all goes down to the lower i.e. at the base of a local self-government unit. But I don't agree with that part where you say everyone has to have the same chance, I would still share in those successful and unsuccessful. I also disagree with the finding where Mr. Boris said that unfortunately we only have five failed zones. From the review report two years ago, we saw how many zones were opened, how many states of money was invested in the infrastructure for the equipment of these zones and on the other hand we see that we have at least this report of what is written in the opening work, 50,000 employees on 11,000 hectares of land. I think it's very small, at 11,000 acres we could work I'd say a million people if we took some average. The next thing you know, this is certainly commendable that it says that a register of entrepreneurship zones will be made, and I think that it exists for us in the Assembly, too, and it would certainly be a lot simpler if we got that report to see how much investment has been made in which zone is being employed and how much is coming back from which zone. And exactly what you mentioned, not to allocate funds for the development of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones according to some political key, I really hope that it will not go by it, but rather by some strategy and clear criteria for the allocation of funds because we have witnessed that some successful zones because it was another political option, did not receive funds, and it was a successful zone, on the other hand by political, I will say the line, the failed zone was getting funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69149	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69150	Dear colleague, I agree with you. A large number of hectares and a few jobs as many as possible, I agree. There should be no million of them, there should be even more. But to get to that million, the path is thorny and, among other things, this is the road, the legislation that will allow both you and us and all of us to go as short as possible and as high-quality as possible to prepare all of this. And that's the key. The key is simple, you don't need to invent hot water, but if you don't have the property-legal solution, it's bad for you all these thousands of acres as indicated in the State Audit report. Let them draw out as many of these thousands of acres in the area of business area property-legally decided that they can be put into operation immediately, that these are plateaus of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 thousand squares, 10, 20, equipped infrastructure and that you can tell the investor here you are, come. If someone thinks that for political reasons someone in my city when HDZ was in power was giving funds, you can easily see it. The city's investments were 140 million kunas, the state's investment was around 2 million kunas, and 4 000 jobs were opened. So it's not exactly true that you're just looking at some kind of political omen, and here I have to state that it wasn't in the case of the SDP or the HDZ, and I don't think it would be in your case either, because usually mayors and mayors, when they're discussing some issues that concern all of us, we have a unique position here, look at the community association, the county, I don't think there's any dissonant tones here unless someone wants to collect once a political point, but in fact our thinking is the same because we all share the same interest, we're all interested in the citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69151	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, what is the biggest grudge today for an investor in the Republic of Croatia? The bureaucratic obstacles, a lot of parafiscal charges. What was the goal of setting up entrepreneurship zones? It's just that this is being eliminated. Now, can we, by administrative means, define and put everything in frames that is very lifelike? And you've just touched what's most important. Therefore, certain articles simply need to be put in a situation that can be done differently in specific situations. So if they wanted to eliminate these anomalies, if they wanted to bring units of local self-government that they were practically through what the state had given them, they were competing to attract entrepreneurs, there was probably a megalomania as well. If we do not want that megalomania again, we must not limit those who have been successful. So it won't be for an exception of these 66% and 20 kilometers 101 cases, it might be 4.5.6 cases, but in these 4.5.6 cases it has to be possible to do otherwise. Because talking about this hyperinflation of entrepreneurship zones, so no entrepreneurship zone could have arisen unless spatial plans were adopted. If the spatial plan was not in line with the multi-level plan, the local self-government unit couldn't bring it in. Well, we're ten years ago hundreds and millions of units of local self-government have invested in spatial documentation and it wouldn't be good if this great effort was made no matter what anyone thinks, let's try to put into some kind of administrative frameworks that are irreparable. And you made a good example of yourself, if in one unit of local self-government the entrepreneurial season is well equipped, the normal thing that the investor wants to come in, and if there's a possibility, why don't you let him in, because maybe... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69153	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69154	Dear fellow Shuker, you are the key to the problem and the thought. The spatial planning is amen. Those skirt scissors they have in the hands of the local self-government unit, regional self-government and state. So the spatial plan has already defined something. Now, I'm asking you all a question, and to all of you, and to those who are watching us, can you imagine, that in the area, this hall is this kind of business zone? And if the property is unsettled, the stone, the drowsy and the shrubs. If the property is legally settled, on the other hand, a flat plateau, a construction site where jobs will be opened. And if we go to law enforcement, which will prevent this place from being rocked, trees and draughts, getting rid of property law, allowing for infrastructure to be built and brought by that investor, then we've blocked the development. Then we only have that half zone where the property was cleared. If it's still state property, what bothers the state to give it to the local self-government unit so it doesn't do anything in that space? If he asks and promises to put it into service within five years. If he does not, he will return, the state has not lost or won anything, and you have touched the key to the problem, because the spatial plan has already been resolved in advance, it has given consent to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69155	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69156	Dear colleagues, here I welcome this initiative, I read the law, but I mean, the house can't be built on the sand. Repeated nonstop one word is property property. One question, did you read that one, there are two strategic documents, which are... strategic documents, which may have been included these proposals in this draft law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first document is what was issued by the president's office, the above which speaks of, the largest one of the biggest blockades and obstacles to investment, it is the resolution of land books, bureaucracy, the second document is G2 which was issued by Croats outside the country, there were two economic forums, the last one is the same, similar things he agreed and said why people would not come here. Here, the guy's empty, I know from personal experience, 10 and a few years ago, people from outside East Canada came to open a Toyota factory in Lika. What was that? They didn't come to understand, they left, now this factory is in the Czech Republic. It doesn't matter why, but I think we know why. Here. The question is who's going to finance all this. I agree it's decentralisation, that's the idea. For the power of the king cannot stop at the fence of the village. But they must be self-sustainable, who and on the issue of building these European funds, in fact withdrawing, at a macroeconomic level, how much did we withdraw? Bulgaria withdrew 2016. billions of euros and that's about 300 euros per capita. What did we do? We wait for these answers in opening these business zones, because we thought in advance 10 years after the recession, what the global market would look like. And one more thing about who's going to work in those areas when we haven't matched the labour market with the education system. The twists are dying out. No one's seen a shovel in here in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69157	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69158	Dear fellow Glasnović, you have put the thesis and the problem of this, which I am talking about, but in one part you have well noticed that we still have an Austrian cadastre in most parts of Croatia. That during Yugoslavia, the Austro-Hungarian Catastre continued to exist, simply for reasons, because people were not even too interested to resolve their inheritance from their dead ancestors. And now we're here where we are. For example, in my case, the city has 126 km of square, catastrophe, and grantine books cost 46 million kuna. And it's just a small town in a whole series of towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And he's saying enough how much it's gonna cost without telling me how long it's gonna take. And it's a taste of complete trouble, property legal relations, and if someone comes or doesn't come, believe me, it depends a lot on the engagement of ourselves, but also a lot on how much harmony there is between us, to go into something like that at all, to make concrete decisions, and that there are no key issues between you and them, but we all go in that direction together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69159	Thank you. And the last replica of Tomislav Klaric's presentation is a replica of his colleague, Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69160	Thank you. Dear counterpart Klaric, I agree that local self-government units should be given land and if it is state-owned and it is some kind of decentralisation. However, in Croatia, it happened that everyone hastened to build a zone, every unit leader of local self-government wanted to have a zone in its local self-government unit whether because of future elections or really thought they would come and rush investors into the area. Unfortunately, though, there was also a great deal of agricultural land that was in the production function, and today the yuppies as a zone where nothing happens. Here, in my county Lekenik, the Marof Zone, a hundred acres of agricultural, high-quality Drenated turned into a zone. No one in the zone. The laws in the Republic of Croatia change as on tape. We solve them here, no investor has any security, starts an investment with one law, and by the time he finishes the investment, that law changes twice. Distrust with institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Take a look at the corruption charts and everything, where Croatia is classified. It's really bad. We are not trusted by entrepreneurs, labour, 300,000 people have left the Republic of Croatia and those at the best age and those professions that are sought. You can't find masters in a metric branch or any other one today, people went after bread with their stomachs. The solution to this is that entrepreneurs come into the zone, open their facilities, invest their money, is to change the whole policy, which runs the Republic of Croatia over the past 27 years, no matter who was in power. We have to change everything to make people believe, come here. Our people are opening in Germany, the Irish firm, not in Croatia, but outside. The zone's gonna be staring at us empty and we've put huge money into it for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69161	Thank you. Would you like an answer? Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69162	Dear fellow, you said the laws were passed as on tape, here's one example of your thesis and this law, four years ago one, now the other, and that's that. And then you said you needed to change everything to make it work. I agree with you, but how? If we're going to change everything again, we're doing new laws like on tape. And often the laws aren't guilty and often the laws are good, they're just a problem in the way they're done. So let's say this matter of state land. I don't know if you've ever looked for him, and probably someone in your unit of local self-government is, when you come to AUDI, DUDI, or what they called it, and now the Ministry of State Property is delivering some kind of table that you need to fill out, which all the documentation you have to deliver to them, and how much you have to wait to get rid of something, so we have a good law, but the model and the way it's being implemented is the problem. And then when we talk about which zone is successful or which zone is not successful, I guarantee you that the ones that are going to meet the investor are successful, who run to the investor to solve the paperwork that otherwise stops him from coming here and building there. And that everyone wants to build a zone, so why not? Every city or municipality has its own citizens, every city or municipality for these same citizens has to think about the future, has to think about what places they're going to work on, whether it's always right or not, they're going to judge those same citizens in the elections, so it's either agricultural land or it's going to be a business zone because these same citizens are participating in the same kind of adoption of that spatial plan in their units of local self-government through their representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69163	Thank you. The next presentation on behalf of the club is the presentation of colleagues of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69164	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. As for the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, I agree that this should be rational and should be left aside and some personal motives. And that's why I disagree with the arguments that have been made here today, which is that we have two approaches in place. So one approach, I understand why HDZ advocates this kind of approach because they have devoted their entire core and policy base to having as much administration as possible, as many municipalities, cities as possible, to making the state more involved, to making the decision as possible, and that's the concept that I personally don't advocate. And I advocate that what is invested, which is used by all of us by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the best possible way. And I can't accept because of one or two exceptions in the Republic of Croatia that laws have to be changed, new laws have to be done because of the pressure the mayor or mayor of HDZ wants to achieve and he can't get a state country and now we'd have to here because of that we have to change a law that is very simple and the principle is very simple. It doesn't matter to the worker and the entrepreneur whether it's 5km here or there, it's possible to build a factory. It may matter to the mayor and to the mayor, but we don't pass the law because of the mayor and the mayor, we make laws for citizens and investors. And what happened with entrepreneurship zones people must know, when it started in 2004 in about seven, eight years means by 2011, we invested two billion kunas in what through the country, an estimated country as a state, we invested a billion and 200 million kuna and something below 800 million kuna we invested through grants. This is the policy we unfortunately implemented in the years when the economy grew in 2005, the sixth, the seventh, it was, it was divided, Sanader was then very generous, gallant, Mr Schucker until one moment, and then when he passed that moment, Sanader no longer listened to him, but it was such a concept and such a policy of HDZ. And then it's clear to me that people who are taught to divide money from the state, the country, are doing a zone that they simply couldn't accept a completely different concept, that until they fill the zone there's no new country. What's the point is that I have a 2km away zone or a 5km away zone and then I'm asking for land to be given, and here I have 70% or 80% of the empty area, and the infrastructure exists. If I didn't tell you about those 800 million kunas that were divided, I'm just saying, because there wasn't any logic here since 2004, the mass of that money was used by people for who knows what purposes, and not according to that and 50 million kuna I made in 2012, 2013 that people returned the money because they didn't use it, no one ever asked them anything for years. And I want to get away from that model, and I don't think it's a good model of government, but I understand why someone who's learned to work that way is now scrambling to get that model back, to keep going, that at least there's more money to share for the entrepreneurial infrastructure. It's a little bit of a problem right now because we're going to finance from the eu funds now, so it's going to go a little bit harder. There's a study to be done to get the money, and it's not the minister's decision enough. In 2008, we divided 110 million kunas into cities and municipalities, which was an alternative source of funding as a rule for the mayor and mayor of HDZ, as a rule. And now it doesn't surprise me at all what people just want us to go back to the way we did when it didn't work out for me. The idea I advocated back then, and I also advocate today is not to share land for no reason in a way that untapped land stands by. If we have 428 municipalities, 128 cities and 20 counties and the city of Zagreb, then it makes sense to me. Everyone will want something of their own country. In every municipality, the city of the state has some land and the main interest in the political work of that chief will be to make sure that the state gives him something and that he explains to its citizens here you see so we have a zone, I created conditions etc. And it's a job that he's going to show as some big success of his. And success is such that we have in these spatial plans someone said planned 1300 zones in the Republic of Croatia, 1300 zones. At this moment, there are fewer than 400 entrepreneurs in Croatia. This is enough to talk about the planning of colleagues Klaric and colleagues from HDZ when you said that planning can be submitted, and we know who is ruling in Croatian counties, how well this has been planned all these 27 years when 1300 is planned and 35% is not working. This tells you again about this mentality that Croatia should finally fall off. Give me what you give to filling it might go, it'll be good, we'll do something, so the state will give some money so somebody'll get a job there, it doesn't matter who, but I guess somebody's gonna get a job. So that's the approach HDZ makes it easy to share what isn't theirs I don't support or support further in the future. When we look at 80%, the goal was to have production activity in these areas. Otherwise, entrepreneurship zones are established for a purpose and when we look at the north of Croatia, Varazdin and Međimurje, this purpose is largely achieved there and large zones are established, in order to open large production capacities with production activity. That's not the case in Croatia. We have zones where cosmetic salons are opened, service activities, whatever it takes. So the point was to try to create infrastructure to make production and to invest in certain parts of Croatia that we have industry, or that we have something that will create a great added value for us at this point, unfortunately, there is also no. And what's wrong with me and what's wrong with us in this law is that things go back to the way they were. So it's going to be shared again by principle you can, you can't, here's your land. The fact that half of it or more than half of it is untapped doesn't matter. And here I have to say one more thing is unacceptable and it is unacceptable to doctor the secretary of state to people here in the Croatian Parliament in a way to tell them it is last year's snow, you have no idea about it. I would refrain especially if my main achievement as Secretary of State in 2016 was to organise a business take-off in my place, no, in Hum on Sutla. It's the greatest success of a fellow who sits here today in front of us and is giving us lessons here and saying that someone knows something and someone doesn't know something. A fellow Whiteman said something about it, but that's not where I'm going. It's personal stuff, let a man explain why he ended up in bankruptcy. Maybe he had objective problems. I don't want to judge him that way. But then again mentality shows you that. You come to the Secretary of State and let's take a business take-off right now. That's it, that's your law. Let's share the state with our own. As he proposes such a law, we should adopt it tomorrow. People have to get away from it, we have to have a basis for what we're proposing. There must be some analysis of the markets and the needs of entrepreneurs. It can't be enough like I said it felt, but I'd be a zone, 'cause it'd be great. It's not gonna be great. Then why should Maric give the land? Just because someone from HDZ is. It'll eventually come to that. I tried to stop it and I did for a while, but now you're going back to the same way we had from 2004 to 2011. Share what's not mine, but it's no use. I'm not talking about everything. No, that's not the point in some counties and cities and municipalities were useful, but in most cases it's not. Look at the land that stands untapped, look how much money we've divided. Two billion kunas. When you divide into 49,000 employees, it is 50,000 kuna per employee only in that part of which we subsidized. So here's the first reading that people don't think we're against investing and investing in Croatia. We are for that. We're not convinced that with these changes, they'll do anything. In the last two years, the trend has exactly been the opposite since he took over HDZ position is less employed and less entrepreneurs are in entrepreneurship zones. We don't think that trend is going to turn around with this. And in the first reading we will be restrained as far as this law is concerned, and in the second reading we will give our amendments and try to change it in the way we think it is right. And it's not right to give what's not yours for something that usually shows from an example, so this is not what I'm talking about. Look at the data. 1300 zones, 300 and something's doing them. It means that the concept did not come into life the way it was supposed to, or that it was not fulfilled in the way it was to be fulfilled. If that didn't work, I don't see why we'd still be sharing real estate this way. Well, I'd rather give the land for some other things maybe more useful than giving the land where the land hasn't yet been used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69165	Thank you. We have six replicas at the presentation of our colleague Gordan Maras. He is the first colleague of Klaric Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69166	Dear colleague Maras, at the beginning of your debate, you said that you disagreed with the arguments presented here, that this is the HDZ's position and that this is how HDZ mayors function. I fought hard here for these amendments to the law. And it's not for my city or my zone, I don't need to. I have 8,000 residents, in the zone right now 200 companies and over 4,000 employees and property legal property solved. But I know how we handled it and what problems we had. And I don't want other cities, municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And this when you talk about HDZ's arguments, I ask you to talk about this issue with my colleague Obersnel down in Rijeka, has the same opinion as I do about this issue or with a colleague, a former Lambasha in Cavla probably knows him, the same opinion on this issue as I do. Because people are working in the field and your members are members of the SDP. So there's no HDZ, no SDP. There's development here, there's construction here, there's fight for its end. Someone's successful, someone less successful. There is, the fact is also musical desires, so just made those zones maybe too. But what's the matter with them? In the spatial plan, they can always change. But if something works out well, then let's not stop it. And with these criteria, we're holding it back. Because I've been stalled in my neighborhood, so we have to buy state land, private land and spend money on it and not get state money, so that the same state would fill up the land, so that it would income tax revenues and hire its... That's why I fight so hard, not because I'm in HDZ, so somebody's gonna give me something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you can add how much we got to me in my city, even in the surrounding cities and municipalities where HDZ is in power, how much SDP's cities and municipalities got. And if we discuss it this way, HDZ, SDP or I don't know who, it won't be good in this country. Especially in these economic issues to build and develop. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69167	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69168	Well, I told you about the principle that prevailed. That's the data, I can't erase it now that that's how it was, and that's how it was between 2004 and 2011, divided by a fist and a hat, until there was a crisis in 2009 that hit us on the head. That's how it was, we all know that. It's no new thing I said here. I don't know if you're wrong or uncomfortable, that HDZ was in power at the time, don't be offended by that, so that's a fact. So he's talking about the policy that reigned during Sanader. And that's how, no, it's been given, it's had, it's been spent, and in the end, there's been a crisis that's been banging us all over our heads and it's cost us a lot. As far as your end is concerned. Look, you just said you were fighting, but I still don't see it, I don't see the problem in that, if you couldn't get the land, then it means that someone next to you, in a municipality or another town, had a free country in the zone, and then Obersnell anyway, whether the Rivers will work with you or with him. Why does he care? If it's the same distance, if it's the same infrastructure or something, which would make him care more about working here than there. So I'm just saying, if the state had already divided in your area 100 units of something, if 66% or, less than, untapped, why would you give 30 more to it? For what? Well, there's 33 or 40 percent chance of using the ground. Well Obersnell is absolutely no matter where anyone will work, because it's the same distance from your city, to the neighboring municipalities, to the river where a man lives, or where he goes to work. So on the other hand, I don't see any problem here, except, in the end, we all come down to who we can chew on. That's the concept I don't stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69169	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69170	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, when you started the debate, you said you didn't want the state to decide as much as possible. But let's be realistic, so this past law, just as a minister, you've advocated that I can't fill the zones until the neighbors are filled. And I'm glad that in some previous replicas we mentioned that all of this should be preceded by a strategic approach, but you just when you made that decision, there was no strategic approach at all. You've made the decision, "it will no longer be shared by the country" because we know that's what you said now in the debate who rules it. But I think it's the wrong expression to share the country. So, the municipalities made some previous actions, brought spatial plans and wanted to prepare the country for investors, prepare the land for infrastructure. We can't speak from this assembly, we won't share the country. I mean, it doesn't make any sense that we local authorities who want to give us a hand, that the state budget that prepares that infrastructure at a time when there's a crisis, we don't know how and we think we're giving them something. It really doesn't make any sense, and I don't think that, certainly, such a local self-government, which prepares land for investors, certainly isn't the one that contributes to our rating being trash and reducing investment activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69171	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69172	Thank you very much. My colleague Roscic, you've made two probably unintentional mistakes. Yeah, I said I didn't want the state to interfere. And when you put a limit that the state can't share, then the state can't interfere, that's logical, no. If 25% is a limit, that no more countries can be shared by the state, then the state can't even decide, it means that it confirms what I said. And on the other hand, it's very clear that, I mean, it's clear what's going on here, what's wanted to be achieved, that someone can meet their demand, which has so far been impossible to achieve. Here, now is colleague Klaric... and said he couldn't and that's why he stood up for changing this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point we have one legitimate interest that someone lobbys for their interest here as representative and mayor of the city in Croatia. That man is HDZ, so that's why the law is changing. So come on, let's just say, there are 2, 3 mayors who are interested in HDZ getting a country and that's why we're changing the law today. Not because of the increase in the number of employees, not because of the increase in GDP, the rating would jump, but because there is a specific name and last name, counterpart Klaric himself has now said that he could not win and when this law changes, that he will be able to win. So speaking of which, we can call this law lex klaric though, let's say he has his last name one lex. So the man said himself and that's what HDZ does, which I disagree with. So I don't agree with that, we can't adapt and share it as if it were ours when it's from Croatia, and we need to dispose of it in the most responsible way possible, not by who's from which party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69173	The next replica is a replica from colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69174	Dear colleague Maras, I would like to tell you one thought that has come to my mind, which is that there have been many factories in Croatia, and most of the factory would dare say, 90% today do not exist. We have a situation where in Sisak, which was an industrial city, literally everything is liquidated, the last thing left is the refinery and the Hungarians together with our government plan and close that last refinery. This is also the situation in Slavonia, and this is the situation in the city of Zagreb where we had various factories, all these factories failed. In the end, the DEOKI, or DINA, on Krk, seems to be preparing for the shipyards, and now what are we discussing? We can make thousands of entrepreneurial zones in Croatia, but if there is no cost of production in Croatia, even if you give people free land, give them halls and give them machines, they are not worth it again. And you should then ask yourself not only you, but the complete government, why in Croatia production is not profitable or better said whether the exchange rate policy that we have is good, whether the interest policy that we have is good and ultimately whether tax policy is as good. We know that the answer to all three questions is no, but nothing is done or done and even people who work “in factories” or in my factories have not yet failed, most often work for misery and there is a textile industry living witness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69175	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69176	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I will immediately tell you that one in Croatia predicted me 1000 entrepreneurial zones. So it's a paradox, 1300 zones we've predicted with spatial plans that work 300 and something in these 20 and a few years. This tells you that the idea or planning as in a lot of things goes in a way that lets us start something and what's going to be done there, nobody cares. But what hurts me a lot more is that I don't see that kind of fire in my colleagues, Klaric, and the rest of the HDZ, to fight for the mammalian refinery as if to change the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure to provide themselves with a hectare, two countries for an entrepreneurial zone. Why can't we see this kind of passion, the desire of HDZ counsel when it comes to Sisak? About the employees in Sisak? The refinery? About INA? About fighting for our jobs, for our employees? For our people? Why isn't that there? Why is there no such energy and desire for HDZ to do anything but listen to stories for a year and a half about INA, about buying and until then Hungarians are doing things their way? Some, though, take bonuses in INA for a year and a half, and they'll probably take them in the future, but there aren't any of our people. There are no jobs here. And I'd love to, and I'll raise my first hand in, two hands up, for HDZ law that will allow the refinery in Sisak to continue to operate. And that's where it's invested and that's where it's going to be. And if necessary, I will sit there next to Shuker and advocate it from that position in the Croatian Parliament if the interests of our employees will be protected and if the desire to keep jobs there will be demonstrated. Give us some energy, your colleagues and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69177	Thank you. Future roommate of fellow Maras, replica Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69178	I hope we won't be roommates after all. Well, here's colleague Maras, it's actually amazing how you characterise every application with ours and yours. Well, we all have our own base to draw certain criticisms and also some suggestions to improve what wasn't good. Therefore, our government has just come to this that there are certain problems in solving the zones themselves or that something needs to be done so that the whole process can be done as quickly and qualityd as possible, what counterpart Klaric himself mentioned. You didn't mention there are excellent zones and places here... which can confirm this and what he has done and in what ways to enable entrepreneurs to come to his territory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also do not know that there are entrepreneurial zones that still have which are characterised as such and there are property-legal problems because Croatian forests have sued for example. for land compensation that cannot be formed at all or create assumptions that such zones may be able to achieve what they should be. When you talk about entrepreneurship, so strangely you never said you see there's one city so it's... or a textile industry factory that lost 20,000 employees, no one wondered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It carries certain changes at all times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69179	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69180	I must admit that I didn't understand this last part of Bagat and I often wondered and watched what was going on in the jam, especially when the road construction was about how the highway miles grew from 4 million euros to 16 million euros, and then later I realized the answer and heard in the epilogues of the court processes that were going on and the way it worked, but we better not remember it because it's not proud of us in the Parliament, and especially not to you who were the closest associates of those who were guilty of these affairs. So you're foreign, you're right, every time you wear your own, we hope that such times are far behind us, that it will never happen again and here is not ours and yours, here's the question that the man I said was simply his motivation to change this law to get a country. Not to buy a country because it can buy, I don't know if you knew it, it doesn't need a law, it doesn't need a DUDI to buy a country, but to get a country. And besides the municipalities and the cities around it have free business zones with a state-owned already country that is inside. So I didn't characterise anything about yours and ours, I just want to show people what I don't think is a good principle, which is why I'm against being divided in this way because that's what led to 1300 zones of which 300 and something works and which, watch this, in the last two years, have lost 20,000 jobs. In the last two years, 20,000 jobs have been lost, like Bagat in Zadar, you said yourself, here's one whole Bagat or before Borovo in Vukovar before the war as many people were employed. So that's what I was talking about, and I'll keep talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69181	Thank you. Next colleague, Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69182	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, I really once wondered after these discussions of yours, were you Mr. Maras, a representative of Minister Maras, or were you a completely new person in this House who was never practically anything until this term and then we listen to the debates about who he was and how he did and you chose the period from 2004 to 2011, you say it was divided by cap and fist, and then we Googled it a little bit and said the title Maras invests 80 million euros in entrepreneurial zones, Maras signed contracts for Zabok, Krapina, Čakovec, Klanjec, so much in those zones, so many million kunas in the zone, so he boasted to invest in those zones, so that's good, that's it goes, understand? So what's the problem? I don't think we just want to admit that we were something, that we were doing something, and that it's our job now to figure out something together that maybe it's better than what we've had so far, to take away some moments that bother something that would happen in that space called both the entrepreneurial or the business zone of various intentions. Because if we're going to stick to it that everything is bad now and everything was perfect before, then this law is practically unnecessary. But it wasn't like that. You say the Sisak refinery, you recently spoke of shipyards. So you said you solved the shipyards if I understood it well in 2012, finally solved shipyards, privatized, no more problems, refinery solved. And now we see that nothing has been solved, that someone has to fix it. Well, it's not that level that should have been from you who were the minister. If you have a problem with working with RH-owned land and whether to leave it inactive, that it is still just property on which nothing happens, it is the SDP's position. We believe that something can happen on that land, and we don't need individuals or individuals, but possibly the same country that gets something out of it if it's activated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69183	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69184	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, I have never shared 80m euros, I may have planned or programmed to get it from European funds, and that is what is a great benefit to us. During Mr. Shuker's time, I said, 800 million kunas have drained out of the budget into the local self-government unit, I just told you, over 50 million kunas have not been justified and for several years we've been competing with municipalities and cities to pay back that money, there was so much order and control in this whole situation. I then set up a programme that is probably working now, hopefully or will work to get EU funding. But no more old ones, no more feelings. I have a feeling, so I have a feeling that there might be something but an analysis of the needs of the market which, in which way, is the only way to get money from the EU for entrepreneurship infrastructure and that's the right way. And believe me, this is how the EU would never share its resources in the way I do, let's change the law, and that's all I'm saying is that I disagree, and I agree with all the efforts of the Croatian authorities and ministries to bring every possible entrepreneur. But we can't change the principle just because it doesn't fit one person or five persons in HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69185	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from counterpart Pranic Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69186	Thank you. Comrade Maras, in your presentation, you have missed one constant thesis that the state is not lightly giving land to local self-government units. When I asked myself this question, since I'm also head of the local self-government unit, I'd look like I'm Chinese or Japanese, not Croat. So when the state gives land to Croatian commissioners and mayors for Croatian citizens and as regards the activation of economic zones, I am well directed to the territory of Dalmatia and can categorically claim here if you were an investor foreign and you want to invest and you need 20 hectares of land that absolutely this land in Dalmatia is not activated to that extent. But it's also not normal for us as mayors and mayors to have to invest in infrastructure and invest, in particular here we have to invest more than 20 million kunas, attracting investors, attracting investors and absolutely no profit tax revenue is directed towards local self-government units for further development of municipal infrastructure. So I can't agree with your exposure that we have a lot of zones. We have a lot of zones that aren't active, and they're not active because of existing laws, which is why we can't absolutely develop them as the leaders of the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69187	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69188	Thank you very much. Well, I think we'll all agree that a thousand 300 zones isn't real. So we've already planned too many because if it were real then there wouldn't be 350 active. And it's not the laws that are problematic and these 350 fillings are probably not over 50% anymore. In Dalmatia, when you're driving on the highway, you'll see several zones, some of them are empty completely, some are doing well, some are really quality, but some are empty. Was that where the zone was supposed to be or wasn't it? Probably not, but it's because there's no plan and analysis to do anything about it. Perhaps with you or with Mr. Klaric or Boris, the analysis would show that it should be given. I'm not saying that maybe you couldn't make the law so it wouldn't be 25% in the area, maybe in the next two, three years it could be all full and what's now empty and what it needs now or someone who's now looking for a country from the state, but it should be a basis, there should be some assessment. I can't tell you the feeling of giving no matter who it was given to. So normally it's given to cities and municipalities, it's our cities and municipalities, but it still doesn't make any sense for the state to share. I have seen countless examples of Croatia and military properties shared with which nothing was done, etc. Sometimes you give the community and the city doesn't have the resources to do anything about it, so it's been untapped for years. Then let's just tie it to each other, see where you get the money to do something, and then I'll give you the land. So there are more logical things than what we're doing right now. I'm not against working right now and I'm not against being assigned if that makes sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69189	Thank you. We continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS colleague Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing amendments to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, the 2013 law. What we've all agreed on so far is that it's an extremely important law, a law important to our entrepreneurs, to our citizens, to our units of local self-government. Just a few data on the importance of entrepreneurship zones. Between 2004 and 2013, the co-financed construction of 350 business zones covering more than 11000 ha and where it is active somewhere around 2700 entrepreneurs employing around 45,000 workers. It was co-financed during that period by the state somewhere around 700 million, which was directly invested in the infrastructure of these entrepreneurial zones. This law changes certain things, i.e., it explains exactly and defines what the term means and so that we could see better, when we discuss it, so it's the one that we have the definition of what it's all about. These are therefore infrastructureised areas defined by spatial plans, designed to carry out certain types of entrepreneurship activities, i.e. economic activities. And they share the use of infrastructure and organised space. And what's important is that it's defined here, and these are entrepreneurial support institutions. Therefore, entities that are focused on the creation of a quality user-oriented entrepreneurship association. So we have here defined that these are business incubators, entrepreneurial incubators, incubators for new technologies and scientific technology parks. In these entrepreneurial incubators and others, expertise is in itself important, it is understood, and there will be not so many problems, there have been no problems so far, but what business incubators are and what we face here. It is generally prescribed when the tender is going, i.e. to seek higher or high professional preparation, for persons providing professional technical assistance. However, there is both educational and professional, and it is done as a rule and it is so imagined that it is an aid for the launch of an entrepreneurial enterprise. And it often happens that such entrepreneurs get one piece of information from this, let's call the professional person who works in that business incubator who is satisfied with the formal education, which was issued by the local self-government unit, which is the founder of that business incubator. But they often stay disappointed, when they go for business advice to a house or accounting service or any other institution and get quite different information and often conflict and, therefore, it may be necessary to see that the regulation prescribes minimum conditions, i.e., additional skills, additional skills, additional educations, which must be met by persons who perform this professional educational assistance. With technical assistance, it is not such a problem, it is precisely with this educational and professional assistance. It is good to have this amendment that founders can be natural persons from now on, as is changed in Article 5. So, along with the Republic of Croatia units and bodies of local self-government, higher schools, professional associations and legal persons, from now on they can also be natural persons. And we have what's considered a new entrepreneurship zone, a new definition, which is considered an expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. And we have in Art. 10. Article 2 relating to the register of entrepreneurship zones. It is defined here, we have so far had a register of entrepreneurship zones, but it now correctly states that in a single register, entrepreneurship infrastructures are recorded and systematised all entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia which are users of support, incentive measures, gifts, privileges approved by the competent ministry. And now we have an exact definition of what the general data must be in that log. So it should be the OIB, the parent, the year of establishment, the founder, the decision to establish, the founding act itself, the name of the entity, the county, the municipality, the city, the address, the activity, the contact details, i.e. the telephone, fax or mail. We talked about it a little bit here, we don't think it would be bad, that with this general data that is mandatory, that we deliver specific data, that we have one record, that there is already this record, that would be entered from the surface of the business zone, the fill-up of the business zone, how much more free space is available, for, which, primarily, would be requested, how they are equipped and what data, would contribute to us a lot, when we look at who is actually a list of these entrepreneurial zones, and if we were to discuss now, we would have this debate, we would have this data, maybe there would be a more content and we wouldn't say some things that don't stand. What we certainly consider most important in this law is this change as regards the distance of 20 km from certain entrepreneurial zones, which are not filled 2/3 regardless of which unit of local self-government is located. There have been various comments, which are in favor or against the introduction of these amendments. We personally at the HNS Club consider it to be good changes, changes that simulate those units of local self-government, which have so far fought for entrepreneurs, have fought to get the entrepreneur right into their business zone. Even though they couldn't get state land, because they weren't simply state land in their vicinity, they were rounding up these business zones, investing their own assets, buying land just to attract entrepreneurs. And there was today the same talk about it, if a single unit of local self-government in its area has more entrepreneurial zones, some are filled in 2/3 of some not. And now there's an entrepreneur who's looking for a bigger area, and normally if he doesn't have one, you'll be like a good local leader, a leader who wants to help his citizens to invest, looking for a way to solve it. And you'll go shopping yourself if you don't have what you used to be. But it would be good if there were already such land, that it could really be given to that unit of local self-government, regardless of whether or not there's an entrepreneurial zone that's not filled up to 2/3 because every entrepreneur knows best where he wants to invest. And it's just that we're forcing someone to go to some corporate zone that's 20 kilometers away and there's a reason in the second unit of local self-government that it doesn't matter whether a worker goes to work in another unit or works in his own, maybe even for a worker, but that entrepreneur knows exactly why he wants to invest in that local self-government unit. We've often had examples like this, that there are certain entrepreneurship zones that are empty but that some of them are filling up and that their filling is extremely good. So it's entrepreneurs who decide where they invest because they invest their money. And that is why we consider these amendments to the law to be extremely good and we will support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69192	We have one replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69193	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Macar, you have commended this proposal to amend and supplement this law, it is the first reading, so we will have the opportunity to add what we see in the IDS club, so I will use this replica for what I do not consider to be considered. Indeed, in these new terms and definitions of this infrastructure, I believe that, through Article 4, as stated in Article 6(2), it is also said in these entrepreneurship zones that the infrastructure is within the entrepreneurship zone. So far, there has been a problem, so I believe that the secretary of state will take into account the infrastructure that needs to be brought to that entrepreneurship zone. I think earlier on of installations that are required by Elektroprivreda, via HEP, construction of trafostations, roads, gas supply and everything that needs to be done to that zone does not involve support and assistance from the state. It falls on the burden of local self-government units. We think that in this particular work, this law is insufficient because so far and so far it has always been funded by local self-government units and the biggest problem is with HEP, we build a trafostation or the HEP asks investors to build a transfect, invest and then normally transfer into their property. I think that in this work we should also work on and think about how to help local self-government units and make it easier for entrepreneurs in this part of initial investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69194	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with you because I know how much these costs are and that they are often higher than the infrastructure itself or the installation of infrastructure within the zone. Roads, gas pipelines and, as you have said, electricity or the construction of these trafostations, as it is generally about remote areas where strong power is needed and there is a need for a newly built trafo station that you are required to build afterwards to be transferred to HEP property. Any support for the local self-government unit is good because it will also enable the entrepreneur to come and start working, so I believe that the secretary of state will record this and take into consideration the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69196	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next debate is from counterpart Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69197	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. On behalf of the HSS Club, we welcome every law, every change that goes in the direction of encouraging and creating a business climate and creating new jobs in Croatia. Even with previous laws and laws, investments in the zone have been somewhat successful because we can see in this data that nearly 400 zones are active in Croatia and over 47,000 workers are working in them. But are we all in the same situation? Do we all have an equal chance? Because according to us from HSS and myself, we need to create such an entrepreneurial climate, such infrastructure in all regions of the Republic of Croatia, in all parts, that everyone has an equal chance. I claim that not all units of local self-government have had the same chance and that some of the zones stand empty while others are more active. Here is one reason why Croatia is divided into two NUC2, under the NUC2 criteria of the region where the same opportunity to attract European money is equal to the support of an entrepreneur investing in Čakovec, Varazdin, Zagreb or Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, Pakrac or elsewhere in the continent. It's not good and it's announced to change and I expect it to be done urgently. What is different and these are the fiscal capacities of local self-government units in Slavonia and Baranja, Lici or the region of Zagreb or the region of Rijeka, are not the same and not all had the same financial capacity to build infrastructure to the zone which was already here and the words, and the area itself also had to co-finance the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure which not all local self-government units had equal opportunities. And in such circumstances, some are more successful than others. It is crucial that what is being opened by this law to further develop zones, that part of state land be given to units of local self-government to build new zones or to expand existing zones, is it essential whether there is an interest of investors, entrepreneurs, businessmen? It is a key that must be installed in the instruments and mechanisms of this law because we need to understand that it is whoever chooses to invest is an entrepreneur, not a unit of local self-government, not a regional self-government and state, but an entrepreneur is led by business policy and he wants to invest in one of the zones in one of the municipalities because he has his reasons, whether it is the quality of the workforce in that area, the habit of that end or his personal desire that because of some tradition or some private connections that bind him to an area he wants to invest there. And we can't make it impossible for a municipality to attract investors into its own area. We have an example of a municipality that had a two-hectare zone, an entrepreneur took three acres and failed to realise the project for reasons of the slowness of the administration. This law will allow us to do so, only with all the documentation submitted by the local self-government unit in its application to the state with property-legal issues resolved, the spatial plan and the rest should be attached and the letter of intent of entrepreneurs so that, if it is necessary, a business plan to really see that there is an interest and that the real need to expand the existing zone or to open a new zone because I claim that we must be equal and all in the same business and state and municipalities and cities and counties, which is to create new jobs and prevent emigration, to preserve all jobs in the Republic. We have an example that a municipality has requested an expansion in Podravina, an expansion of its zone, a business plan and investors, and unfortunately the procedure lasted over three years and the entrepreneur gave up. This must not happen and the state must be a partner to the municipality and react without delay to such requirements and attract such investment and jobs. We also have negative examples that in a particular zone in the municipality of Sibinj, due to the court dispute was in the equipment of the zone, part of the investor has left, but one entrepreneur has built his plant and now cannot put it into operation, plans to hire 200 people and has been visiting municipal, urban, county, state institutions for months and is seeking help to connect his object to the infrastructure and can be started with production. And that state hasn't responded, and this way, I think the Secretary of State knows which entrepreneur it is because it's probably already reported to him, and the state has to react faster and open up space to open up jobs and that this investment goes on. Of course, there are positive examples and should be an example to other local self-government units of the city of Novi Gradiška and their entrepreneurial zone where a new contract with investors already present in the area that extends their production and such units of local self-government should help and enable the expansion of the zone and will certainly come from the city of Nova Gradiška, and I believe from other environments that are actively considering how to attract investment as mayors in Bjelovar and some other municipalities and cities that make active tax policy, i.e. public income and expenditure policy, to attract investment to their end. We need to help such municipalities, but provided that they really intend to invest, to add this to their documentation and to guarantee in... the lab a certain deadline for building production capacities and a certain number of jobs. And in such a case, there is justification for expanding the zone and opening a new business zone. So the key is whether there is an interest in entrepreneurs and investors, if there is an investor, then we have to be a partner and act as soon as possible, and even then this law needs only to be done in this way so that we have control mechanisms, not just to spread the zone that will stand empty. When it comes to other supporting institutions, entrepreneurial incubators, we have this series of positive examples as a fruit and vegetable distribution centre in Zagreb County in Velika Gorica, where fruit and vegetables were imported, made storage facilities, processing facilities and they can now be the engine of development not only now of Zagreb County and fruit and vegetables of the region but also of its wider network. In a similar process is the construction of such an incubator in the municipality of Brod Stupnik, which will also expand the zone for this reason. But why am I pointing this out? Because this country should also be an active partner in that professional section to quality capacitate this incubator by area and by type of possible production so as not to have empty facilities that will later cost more than will bring new profits or new jobs. I will also mention here both development agencies and other support institutions that should have already been co-financed by the state because not all regions are in the same position, not all counties are in the same fiscal capacity and therefore perhaps some regions are lagging behind and well that regional co-ordinators will now be co-financed by the state. But it is certain that more resources should be allocated to such development agencies that have results, and come from more fiscally weak capacities, or less capacity for local and regional self-government, and such ones should be given greater attention, so that everyone has an equal chance of further development. They are mentioned in this law and free zones, yet in Croatia there are 12 active and somewhere more than 7,000 employees in the same ones who are now in trouble after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Community because there are no longer those duty-free businesses and other benefits they have had due to business in business areas and we need to find models to preserve these companies to stay in Croatia and continue production. There have also been announced transitional models for these companies and support for them, so here may be good in the final address of the Secretary of State to hear what is planned to preserve these entrepreneurs operating in free duty-free areas. And what is also important to point out that in certain units of local self-government there is an interest in creating agricultural zones, because within the settlement there is no longer a free place to build farms, silos or some processing facilities and the needs of local self-government units to form and agricultural zones, and this should also be legally foreseen, allow for further development of the same ones. And of course, as part of what I was saying at the opening, you all need to get the same chance. I will point out again that we have not all had the same chance, an example of one of the significant investments of the state and important for the region of Slavonia is also the port of Slavonski Brod, which had to raise a loan within the port to build the infrastructure, and other zones were receiving grants. We need to correct this and see where there is potential, where new jobs can be opened, especially when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem, Lici and other underdeveloped regions, that we need to pay attention to these 76 million kunas as planned this year to invest in the development of infrastructure in areas and other supporting institutions. We think that the areas from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem should have more points because it is announced in the project Slavonia, to get a better chance to develop this infrastructure and attract investment, i.e. I have already spoken one if we already have a project Slavonia, then we should create one fund for development projects and for all infrastructures in Slavonia and Baranja and similar in other underdeveloped regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69198	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Davor Vlaovic, we have three replicas. Comrade Young Madyer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69199	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Vlaović said that we were mentioned in the territory of the Republic of Croatia somewhere around 1300 zones of which were active around 300 or 400. Of course, in my opinion, and certainly in your opinion there are a lot of inactive business zones, and surely Croatia has invested quite a lot of money in building municipal infrastructure and all that was needed to open the business zone in the first place. But my question to you is how do you feel about this county about 20 kilometers away that some of the commissioners will be punished for the incompetence of another unit of local self-government that opened up an entrepreneurial zone, and it's nothing, there's no entrepreneurs inside. And there comes an investor who wants to build in that local self-government unit right now. It is clear that every unit leader of the local self-government is in the interest of attracting investors, because you will be employed by local self-government units, that they will achieve a certain income in the unit of the local self-government, and that they will not be able to build, so they will not be able to accept that entrepreneur because in the 20 km district an undeveloped entrepreneurial zone. I'm asking what your opinion is about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69200	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69201	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my opening statement, I said that the state and the laws that we adopt in the Croatian Parliament must be in the function of developing the economy, entrepreneurship and infrastructure, and that in no article of any law we must restrict entrepreneurship especially when there is an interest of entrepreneurs of a potential investor in any unit of local self-government. I agree with you that with no restriction, we must not stop investment in any municipality and open space if the municipality has submitted a request for an extension of the zone. It has a letter of intent, has an entrepreneur's business plan that this is sufficient argument to enable him to expand the business zone and of course the state through its mechanisms controls whether there has been an investment, whether a certain number of jobs announced and achieved and therefore there are control mechanisms if this does not happen for the state-owned property to be returned if no investment occurs. Everything else would be contrary to the entrepreneurial climate and the creation of new jobs in Croatia, and existing laws must go towards helping underdeveloped areas, to stimulate them into further investment and attracting capital. And we, through state institutions, must not reduce the role of the state in attracting investment in Croatia, so it is strange that the state budget has reduced the amount of funds that stimulate and potentiate the work of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. And that's one example where we don't run a good climate, a good policy in creating an entrepreneurial climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69202	Next replica, colleague Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69203	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. I have to say that I like your way of thinking, and when you go into this problem, you think both as a businessman and as head of the local self-government unit. However, I must say, I disagree with one of your findings. You say we shouldn't be working on new entrepreneurship zones and expanding entrepreneurship zones until we see the interest of entrepreneurs. In fact, it is in some ways right, but today it makes it impossible for us to do something concrete in the economy. Today, when an entrepreneur wants to enter an entrepreneurial zone, he wants it to be immediately, to be within a month. Many mayors and mayors boast that they can resolve a building permit within a month. Well, that's just not possible. We simply can't wait for the entrepreneur to make an interest, so let's go into building an entrepreneurial zone and bring infrastructure. There's one other thing. I also disagree with this trend that has been in the last ten years where each unit of local self-government wanted to have its own entrepreneurial zone. And what did we get? We got spent billions of kunas in the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones. Most of these entrepreneurial zones are empty, stares empty, and there are not enough entrepreneurs. So in all that together, I'd like to say that we need to find one measure. So you need to do entrepreneurship zones, you need to prepare them for entrepreneurs, but you still don't do it the way we've done it in the last 10, 15 years. There should be a strategy for entrepreneurship development. It can only be done by the state. We can't happen to have five small units of local self-government, each one has its own entrepreneurial zone and they're within 10 kilometers. It's a simple waste of money, state money, public money, money units of local self-government that didn't go in the right direction. Here's kind of my replica to you, but I agree with most of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69204	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69205	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I agree with you that Croatia should make one strategy for economic development and entrepreneurship, i.e. attracting investment and creating new jobs, and that it needs to focus particular attention in this respect on the state property that should be in the function of economic development. We have already seen that this big bell has been announced that state property will be put into operation. A new ministry was also established in the state budget of only 50 million kuna last year. We expect that through the new law it will go much faster and that the real state property that stands unused will be put into operation, so here is the land that was given for the zones. At the beginning when we did not have enough entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia, we wanted to attract enough capacity and it was logical to allow all units of local self-government to build a zone in their area. There was also a suggestion that units of local self-government would join together, that two and three neighbors would build one zone. That'd be a lot easier then. However, to understand is the political needs of every local self-government unit that wanted a zone on its ground. But today we've already said about 1300 zones, 400 active ones. There is enough capacity, and I agree with you that those who do not have a zone should also allow them to have a zone, because we have, say, some of the leaders who have not been active, so they have not formed an entrepreneurial zone. Today, there may be a need, an interest not only for foreign investors but also for domestic entrepreneurs, and we must take care of them. If they cannot develop, it is logical to enable them in their community to expand their production plant. So here's what's good about having a second reading and giving even more suggestions to make it better law and at the service of all units of local, regional self-government and, above all, to entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69206	And the last replica is a replica of a colleague of Mark Velligay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69207	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's a colleague of Vlaovic I'd say that you actually touched something through your discussion that I'm going to say is about space management, maybe regional development. You mentioned several very successful business zones that were not accidentally successful. They are either near big cities or they have a good location or they have a strong industrial tradition that hasn't fallen apart through this transformation that we witnessed in the 1990s. So what you're doing through the replicas of some things you've answered may have come a little bit in contrast. In my opinion, not every municipality in the Republic of Croatia can have its own business zone. We have other things to develop. Well, the business zone isn't the only thing he can have. So let's develop in them agriculture. You mentioned the agricultural zones yourself. Let us develop in them tourism, sea, cultural, we have various kinds and things that can develop these smaller municipalities. So we've figured out ourselves here today how much money we've invested in the development of the zone. We have them, so more than half that are not, unfortunately, relative to, of course, spatial-planning documentation, which are not active. So we have about 450 is just active. We've simply obviously been through this period, so for the past twenty years we've invested too much money. Here I have one piece of information here, half a billion kunas have taken units of local self-government and regional in a zone where they're not at all active. Is that the way? The way is not safe for us to go towards each small municipality having its own zone, but to give them some other chance to develop. Yesterday we had a debate about agricultural land and there were some things that opened up, so I think each one, it's very difficult to expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69208	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69209	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I agree with you that all units of local self-government, no matter what type of investment they have to be in the same position, have the same chance. I said in the introduction that they didn't all have the same chance through fiscal capacity, not according to specifics of other laws. And through investments that have been happening some environments have been cut off, they have no road connection, they have not built water supply, water disposal and, as such, they are certainly not interested in any investor from other regions or other countries. But what we have to keep is existing jobs, existing crafts that operate in that unit of local self-government and often you have a situation like the Gundic municipality where the village is hurried and where there is no more room for the agricultural entrepreneur, and even some craftsman to expand its production capacities and it needs a zone. And if there are letters of intent of such entrepreneurs and in cooperation with the Head of State then he must be a partner and enable a new zone to be created in such an environment and to allow these people to develop their capacities. Only in this way will we lift all the ends of Croatia through other supporting measures, allow such undeveloped landscapes to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69210	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. A colleague of Claric's is gone, so we'll continue with his colleague, Vedligaj. Here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69211	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are colleagues and colleagues, the topic we are discussing today, I believe a very current, very life-saving one for all of us who are the leaders of the local self-government unit and, of course, a good part of us have more or less successful business zones and we would all like as many investors in our business zones as possible, as much as possible for our urban or municipal budgets, through communal compensation, through income tax. But on the other hand, we have to look at the fact that we are here in charge of passing laws that apply to the whole country and to one overall picture. Entrepreneurship means we define it as a capacity to form a certain effective economic activity based on one creative human, human activity, economic activity. Of course, if we get it out, we should be effective in our business areas now. And is that them? Some of them are. We have heard many successful examples of our business zones today thanks to a good location, thanks to one effort by the leaders of units of local or regional self-government thanks to one tradition or heritage of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, industry that exists there in the area, there is a lot of factors and also territorial if we look at of course zones in the northern part of Croatia are much more pro-pulsive than perhaps Slavonia which was always more turned towards the agriculture that we agreed yesterday in the debate that unfortunately is in poor shape and that it takes much, much movement here. So, a few data. In the equipment and development of entrepreneurship zones we invested some from 2004 until 2013, 3.3 billion kuna, so these investments were also related to project documentation, land, energy, municipal, transport, communication infrastructure, promotion and other investments. So of the 1308 entrepreneurial zones that are provided for spatial planning documentation in the Republic of Croatia, we have invested, so I'm saying everyone, units of local self-government and Rh and other entities in the development of the 591 entrepreneurial zone. Investments, for example, of local self-government units were a billion and 700 million kunas, investments by the provinces of 192 million kuna, remained state-owned investments. A total of how much we invested in those non-functioning entrepreneurship zones was about 450 million kuna, so we invested nearly half a billion kuna in something that unfortunately has no application. We said here and in the debate it was mentioned several times, yes, there might be some of it in the future. But can we allow ourselves if we're a serious state to do it in a verse? That we did it without a cost-effectiveness study? That we invested that money without an analysis of the market? That we invested without an analysis of the need for private investors? I don't think we should, and unfortunately that's how we worked. This law probably has certain shifts for some leaders, but the remarks we made here in the debate and outside the club, and also through replicas and through this individual debate, I think they're in place. We can't please someone only at times if we don't look at a bigger picture, and unfortunately through this law we don't look at, as well as through a number of other laws. Again, we haven't solved those foundations, unsettled land books, insufficient attention that should be given to this one space management, determining skillfully where it goes in which activities, first of all. After that, whether we are going to develop entrepreneurship somewhere, whether in certain rural areas that have a tradition of agriculture we are going to develop more agriculture there and give an emphasis in this way, to support the OPGs, we are going to do it sectorally in areas, and unfortunately we are not doing it. And that's why this law may be for some cities, for some municipalities it will probably bring something, but globally, it brings nothing too new if we look at the level of Croatia as a whole. Finally, I'm going to say another article, so that I'm actually going to mention this country's relationship to local self-government. Article 30, in principle, left it not to be possible, but to be left right in the law, and so it stands there, to be exempt from the violation provisions of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's good, it's not even in accordance with the Constitution, we recently both cities and municipalities have had a lot of arguments with the resolution ministries whether or not the state needs or doesn't pay the communal fee, it turns out it should. So I think that the same thing here is wrong that we are also doing such exceptions because they are not a good message to the units of local self-government or to the citizens. If a crime is committed somewhere or something, then we all have to answer equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69212	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69213	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary, Your Honor. The establishment of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia by units of local and regional self-government in cooperation with the Government is important because it promotes even regional development. It is mentioned by some MPs that this law encourages and pleases some mayors such as Mayor Bakar Mr. Klaric. But you need to know, and we all need to know that Kukuljanovo's entrepreneurial zone is recognized for its activity, it dates back to before the Homeland War, and the sequence is the old industrial zone of Rijeka. Her geostrategic position is such that interest in the new space in the zone is great. So it's good to pass a new law because for some zones investors are more interested and for some less. Here's a traffic connection of the Kukuljanovo zone. Do you think that from more active economic zones, investors should be directed against their wishes, directed, into some less active zones, and that this would harm the fragile Croatian economy. Or should we find a way and get to new ground and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69214	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69215	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I have to say, I couldn't agree more with you than anything you've said. I know about that business zone. I am absolutely glad that my colleague Klaric, too, contributed to her development. What you also mentioned, it's part of a river-wide, urban area. I even mentioned it to her in the replica before, and that's where I take my hat off to the floor. Well done. Support, I assume you mean state land, but probably in support of some infrastructure. So look, thanks to this business zone, I'm going to tell you one logic, the town of Bakar has had an extremely large growth of trust in both budget revenues and why not, and direct what you said, and even into some smaller areas of investors if they want to, if we already have, if we've developed those zones already. Why don't you point them there? Why don't you direct them? I don't have anything, I said, I believe this law, too, will benefit certain local units, but we don't solve one, we don't look at one broad picture. That's where we got somebody, on the other hand, you know, somebody's gonna get hurt. That's not good. I guess we can agree on that at least. But, let's bet, then let's make such a law, let's make a plan of some kind of laying down those perspective business zones. But then, what you were discussing today, and that's what some of the MPs mentioned, that it should be almost so that every municipality should have a zone, then it's a little different from what you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69216	The next replica is the respected representatives of Ana-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69217	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Vesligai, you mentioned in entrepreneurship zones, that so far big funds have been invested in entrepreneurship zones, that a large number of these zones have not been filled. Here, I'm talking about a concrete example from my town. I would have been much happier if the entrepreneurial zone in my town in the town of Orahovica had been made so far and that the large funds had been invested in it, because today, for several years, there is no crisis in Croatia anymore. The economy is slowly being implemented and today there are a large number of interested entrepreneurs, who would invest, invest, right in the corporate zone in Orahovica. But unfortunately, so far, since it's not invested they simply have no way, how to make their investments. Now it's up to us in the city to deal with all the administrative obstacles, to solve documentation and everything we need to do, not to talk about a lot of resources, because one such small town, but also other units of local self-government, can't equip an entrepreneurial zone on their own. I think you agree with me when I say this and that there is, that it must be the co-operation of the state and the units of local self-government and that it must be the state that is going to work on a strategy to develop such small environments, and especially when we talk about Slavonia, because it is not a problem, just an entrepreneurial zone, it is a problem and other infrastructure, specifically traffic. Because if we're not traffic-related, as is the case now, then even new investors don't want to come to those parts. And just without new investments, such neighborhoods, small neighborhoods and small units of local self-government, we won't be able to recover. Here, question, do you agree with me, when I say so, that cooperation and a common development strategy are necessary, namely local self-government units, such small and stately ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69218	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69219	Thank you. Well, of course I agree absolutely with you, because I have, as I say, a similar problem, like you, I'm also a mayor who has very low fiscal capacity and it's extremely difficult, of course, to single out with all those obligations that you still have certain things to invest, therefore, in the infrastructure of the business zone. I also have an extraordinary amount of interest now and now. I've had something recently and reported to the ministry's competition. And I think that the ministry should actually in some way determine which areas are perspective, where it really exists as in your case or as in the case of a number of cities, a number of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, where there is a certain interest that it really invests in the infrastructure of these business areas. Of course, by looking at all these parameters that need to be considered, do some good and quality analyses. Of course, all with one communication between the Ministry of County, Cities and municipalities, and then I'm sure we can, those funds that are, and we've had enough of this through the EU funds, we can really invest in those areas that have perspective. Because that infrastructure, we work for entrepreneurs. So infrastructure is just a means to make the zone work, and the zone will work, of course, when entrepreneurs come into it, when they start hiring people, and then we are at the end of that chain, so to speak in cities and municipalities, to get as much income as possible and from taxes on income from municipal fees and other things, and of course, and yet most important are our citizens who will work and stay in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69220	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69221	Thank you, Vice President. You said that this country looked differently at some units of local self-government, I said, in some areas. To someone, this country was a mother and someone was a stepmom. This is a fact and we can conclude that some units of local self-government, i.e. some similar ones, have received millions of squares of state country for building their infrastructure, for building their entrepreneurial zones, have been similar, and that these millions of squares of state countries remain unused. That's what every Croat needs to worry about every... Patriot, that we actually did something we weren't laughing at. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was most important to be like, so it was in entrepreneurship, so it was in local self-government units. That's what we talked about yesterday and the country. The one who was like that got 100 acres of state land, and the one who wasn't good, even though he was successful, couldn't do it. Now that's what I want to point out that this country was unfair. This is not my criticism of a single minister... of every minister and everyone did it that way and it needs to be changed. People need to understand that this country can't prefer someone, it can't be someone's mother, it's someone's stepmother. That is why these laws should be adapted, but even more important in all of this, punishment should be given to those who do not act both as ministers and local leaders, as well as to all those who manipulate the acquisition of entrepreneurial zones, countries or any help from this country, and use their position in any manipulative way of fraud, crime, fakery or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69222	The answer of the esteemed representative of Veseligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69223	Thank you. Comrade Prelec, you have touched yet one broader problem, unfortunately there has been a lot of sharing of various money from national competitions by all of us know what the key is and we know who did it most of the work. Look, I don't blame any of those mayors, the mayor who tried to get the funds for his community, the city, and it was mentioned on the other side of the assembly that we always listen to, it's kind of a party base, and it's being respected, so some things are thus recognised as being put into this law. But if we've already given this state country to someone, which is why we haven't established any control mechanisms, which is why we haven't given it, so I'm going to say here on a certain deadline, so let's see if it's done within that time limit, if it's not just you have certain instruments to get it back to the state so that the state can find one more effective way to get that country into office, if it wasn't done by local self-government units, then maybe you should see with private entrepreneurs or with some other economic entities, with other institutions and institutions how to bring it in. Let's say for farmers, here's what we mentioned here today that if not every municipality for the business zone, and I don't think it is, and I believe that the great majority here also thinks maybe you should see for agriculture or for some other purpose to use it. I believe that interest has, surely that interest has, whether our people have good ideas, found people are valuable, working, and that they are given a little bit of these bureaucratic barriers to reduce would certainly be much more efficient and much better and would have given that country the right function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69224	Thank you. The next individual debate is those respected representatives of Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69225	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I am going to start with some research that was conducted and where in 2011, for example, in Croatia, it was 44.4% high. What does that mean? Now this perception of the opportunity for entrepreneurs is slightly increased, but we're still 44% away. Why am I saying that? So entrepreneurship must be an opportunity or an opportunity to hire yourself, someone else, to hire some kind of property, so we have to start from what we've done to change the situation, or in one way or another, I have to criticize those mayors and mayors who cry just over the fact that they don't have or give them anything. I believe that every mayor and mayor must at the same time be the manager who will read, listen and look around what is happening in the environment, what are the legal possibilities and be the one who will encourage certain actions and create certain assumptions for development. So each of them has to be one way of seeing how and in which direction they can develop their own city or municipality. This is about 347 entrepreneurial zones that are in function and those that are not. Well, just in the previous period, we see in these 347 zones over 11,000 acres of surface area where you have nearly 2900 entrepreneurs and over 47 thousand workers working in those areas. We say Croatia has invested more than 700 million kunas in all of this, that it has created assumptions for all of Croatia, so when we compare the possibilities that some zones had because they had no war against those areas that, or parts of the country that had war, there was certainly no equal development options. However, I say every one of those mayors and mayors who recognized the possibility and read everything that was possible to do in the legislative framework that was offered to him, quickly arrived at all that he had lost during the period that made this development impossible. What else should be noted is that we need to ask ourselves what we can do in our territory, for example. We can also have a surface and create all the perfect conditions, and at the same time we do not have a qualified workforce that can monitor this development. So this entrepreneur who comes to a particular area can give him all benefits tax discharge, etc., but if he does not have a qualified workforce he will go to those areas where this will be faster and easier to find. Therefore, our education system must also identify and think about how it will educate those young people who will be able to retrain themselves very quickly, as necessary, for what needs a certain period or a certain industry that is needed at that moment or entrepreneur. We are just talking about that too many non-functional zones, but Article 26 is much better defined by all that was previously said in one perhaps paragraph, and right here it says with the current new article, it is said that the ministry that is responsible for state property will break the contract and in those cases where this donated land has not been brought in and brought in for a purpose or is acted contrary to the provisions of the law. In addition, if the assets resulting from the sale of that land are not used for infrastructure equipment. So these are all reasons to break up the contract, and also here is said and given the opportunity to bring about a purpose within five years with the possibility of an extension for another three years. Why does it matter? So all those who engage in entrepreneurship zones know how long it took them to settle their ownership relations, how much time it took to coordinate the spatial plans, how long it took to bring the lower order and the higher order of spatial plans in line. That time, therefore, is absolutely necessary to consider. In fact, the fact is that with the legal changes that we bring in, we have to make those times as short as possible. Otherwise, whoever wanted to come somewhere as an entrepreneur will give up because entrepreneurship needs to react quickly and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69226	Thank you. Your presentation has caused more replicas, let's start with order, is the right of the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69227	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, must be supported, without them, Croatia can't go forward, that's for sure. However, through our history, we have shown that we support primarily these large ones, and the small ones are very difficult to express under the monopoly of the possibility of lower costs of these large companies that are shaking Croatia. Let's remember how sometimes people could make a living with a truck, and today there's no way someone has one truck and make money with that truck. And now I've got one case a man sent me his case where a man failed, he wanted to work but he failed because someone planted his leg. So he says, "2007. I signed an agreement with the town of Bjelovar on investment in the Veiko Korenovo zone on the basis of the agreement, I took out a loan, bought machinery for recycling of construction waste, and since the zone was never revived, I couldn't repay the loan and the bank paid me all the machines, two houses in Bjelovar that I mortgaged, and now I'm homeless, and the zone doesn't have a day today. For a lawyer, I don't have the money to sue the city for this fraud, so this is the way I'm sending these documents and information to everyone I think can help me bring justice to light. Thank you for your understanding and forgive me if I disturb you. Dusan Radošević’. Mr. Radosevic, please contact the media and try to update your problem through the media because I don't know how to help you differently, I can't help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69228	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfierev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69229	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peric. In this presentation, you mentioned almost a large part of your presentation, in fact, that the key role of the leader of the units of local administration and self-government is in one good planning in a good governance, so you mentioned that it should be really visionaries of people who will know and direct and plan well to have a good strategy and direct their own development of the municipality and the city, as well as find ways to attract potential investors. And now that we're following it a little bit, and with all due respect to my colleague from Vodice, I have to ask myself if this might be a criticism sent to your colleague and your colleague at the same time because right from the city I come from, from the county where I come from, and where your party is in power this whole time, we have an entrepreneurial zone that stands completely unused. As you might think, I'm asking you in this place, how this law is going to contribute to something changing and whether this may have really been a criticism sent to your colleague because if it is, just remember that 65 ha has been allocated so in 2009 and since then it has actually been completely untapped. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69230	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69231	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, when I'm talking about it and when I was talking about it, then I was thinking about everyone independent of who the party is. Here's a colleague here says that you're thinking about land that wasn't actually owned by a city that was bought, that the city had to buy, and then he couldn't find the funds, or not enough resources to be able to finance himself, probably the area itself, or there was no way it could fit into some projects that the state co-financed. Therefore, I always say for certain perhaps insufficiently designed projects you should ask yourself what are the reasons that something has stopped or has not happened quickly enough. And in any case, this joint county, the cities, the state must surely find a way through these legal mechanisms can find ways to help solve certain problems. Because I have a case in my town and in my county where we also had to buy land for the zone, where we had to pay for the forest land to turn, to exclude it from the whole. Therefore, for re-intention. So there's a lot we couldn't get, but we had to buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69232	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69233	Thank you very much. Representative Peric, you said that the leaders and managers, so the mayors and the mayors that they are managers, if the managers unfortunately, that management is terribly bad in Lika, Slavonia, Zagora, Ravna kotars. So, you're coming from Zadar, so I wouldn't exactly agree that that's exactly how it is, and that the criteria have allocated incentives and land allocations. The simple criterion was party, however, and no matter what the party is in power and in Lica, in Slavonia, which is the longest in power, and there are local leaders, so the management is not well used. I can tell the Trilja case, I'm sorry that my colleague Šipic didn't. They also had a head of state, i.e. The secretary of state property, Mr. Saraca, is now the head of RERA's former mayor, his predecessor and is most invested in the area. There's a lot of stories, a lot of nogosts. But at the end of the day, Croatia's largest unemployment rate is just 35%, which is in the town of Trilj. So we're going to have criteria. It would be much more significant if the fast road was made to Sinj from Klis to Kukuzovac zone or to Knin a connection on the highway or to Drniš. I'm talking about these parts. Or to Vrgorca Račva or to Imotski Račva Drvenik or to Imotski. So it's not exactly a question of that management, but a party card has played a big role as here's a business centre in Solin, look at the Incubator. One project, because... One of the projects was roasting lambs for the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They even stated in their report in Solin that they were doing so, and of course they cannot win a different election. So from positive examples of entrepreneurship centers, here's the negative ones. So it's not exactly a marketing key.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69234	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69235	Well, fellow Bull, the incentive must always come from the base. So all the people on the base had to be those who had or had a vision and then encouraged colleagues where they needed to be encouraged to make a road or make something out of infrastructure. If we look at the tax reform now, where units of local self-government got 60% and then all that is left, then we can see that there is a prerequisite for you both in your city and in smaller towns in Slavonia, etc. The municipalities will have a strong potential to invest in this infrastructure as they did before powerful cities and more powerful municipalities. When you say "Lika," we actually have to ask ourselves what I said in the introduction what we know to do and what we want to do, what are our comparative advantages. Do we want to create out of these comparative advantages the preconditions to be better cattlemen, better warlords, better industrialists, or I don't know what? So we have to decide what we want, and then in this direction we develop certain areas of our own, and this is how we develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69236	The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Peric. I fully agree with you that for a good mayor and chief, he must also be a manager. But at the same time, entrepreneurs can't all be the best, but they have both the best and the medium and the worse. So does the local self-government leaders. But at the same time I agree to come from Požega-Slavon County, I was mayor for 12 years in the town of Pleternica. In order for you to create an entrepreneurial zone you must be a visionary, you must know what will happen in the next 15, 20 years on your field. And I would just back up the fact that, regardless, because many here are both MPs and MPs, and I don't know, the other local self-government leaders are just jealous of our mayors and local self-government leaders, because they've shown maximum imagination, and that's why they've got the highest voter confidence. I've never won anything in my town. We had to buy this entrepreneurial zone and we bought 30 acres of land to create a zone. In the same zone, we predicted an additional 150 hectares of land, which is not owned by us, but owned by all private property. And today's mayoral of the town of Pleternica, which has also been my deputy of 4 years today, is one of the most capable mayors in the Republic of Croatia, in the rank of cities, which is the town of Pleternica, as well as major cities. Therefore, it is visible at every turn. It is also visible in its presentations and where it was recognized by all televisions of the Republic of Croatia, all associations, entrepreneurial activities. So here's an example, one young person who's capable of getting nothing from HDZ, but we've had to buy, use funds and get along in a variety of ways. But proof that the manager, the head of local self-government, is only right and what the people recognize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69238	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69239	Thank you, dear fellow Lucic. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. And we're just like the city of '90. and in '91, respectively. We could sit and cry with what was happening to us until '94, '95. Well, we didn't. But we are parallel to that thanks to our leader and manager exactly what needs to be done and who knew that the creation of projects should be encouraged, project planning, etc. We created preconditions, so that at the moment when the possibilities were opened, he could just use it. We also had to buy some land. We haven't been given everything. But I'm saying, right at the right time, we used to encourage it when everything was dead and it was under grenades, and we were also working and making assumptions that the city could develop and what was proven, so that's what to think about and think long-term how to program its development and in which direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69240	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69241	Thank you, Vice President. Here, colleague Peric, it has already been mentioned several times here in replicas, so I may be a little bit, I might be a little bit of a repeat, but you mentioned that the mayors must be visionaries, that they must be managers, and I absolutely agree with you there. Just you know, not all mayors in their local units come to the same. Some have fewer fiscal incomes, some have bigger incomes. Some follow up, say, a very difficult situation, debts and other things. So we're not going, all of us from the same positions. Some have a slightly bigger wind in their backs from the state level or they have it, and some have a smaller wind. Here we can agree, fiscal capacity, first I'll say, we know what differences, between the Primorje Croatia, between the continents, are extremely large. It's part of it now, but it's only a small part. This will also be confirmed by the mayors of northern Croatia, from any municipality. That's the smaller part, they're reduced these differences, they're extremely large, when you have to say the Hum municipality on Sutla, it has 3,000 kn per capita, original incomes. On the side of the coast, cities rarely have less than 10000 kn or municipalities. You know that well. The war also mentioned as an argument, but you kind of denied yourself, because you mentioned the example of Zadar, which the war was no restriction. But we can't use work today as an argument that some zones developed because they didn't, because they weren't in some kind of zone, where they were war operations. But, we, those areas were 23 years old, it's been since the war. These areas had one support, they still have special state concerns, but somewhere we were giving real money, so to speak, for cars. The municipality of one in the carlovac County, 6 business zones. I don't know how many business entities there are. But do you think that was justified? Do you think we should still do some kind of analysis of what we've done so far, and what's spent is spent, and then how do we go on or we'll share, the kind of person you're better with or who you are, whose option is somewhere in power?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69242	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69243	Well, in any case, it's a matter of question, which is what I was talking about, and I commended this particular article.26. which complements everything that was undefined until then. So they became the preconditions, the way they were. Now we're speeding up, what I'm saying, procedures, to allow spatial plans and everything else to accelerate. So, then we can fit into this article. 26, let's say 5 years plus 3, eight, here's what we're going to do. That was 10 or 15 years ago you could have dreamed of it, because it took you forever long enough to match all those verticals both of them and the other and the third. Therefore, those times are her. At the same time, we can say that then the zones, maybe, well, she saw the frog bitching, so they opened up, not thinking about the consequences of what they were going to do. But now it's time to certainly act this way. That the seas, those who failed or did not know how to do it, could be allowed to do it to those who can and who know it. And I'm saying, there's always a time when you're hyperventilating and you can't do something, but you always have to create a prerequisite that one day you'll do it and take advantage of the situation, what you say, take advantage of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69244	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69245	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here, today listening to these discussions, I think the problem might be that it's simple or complex. It depends on how anyone looks at it and we've turned a law into a debate about who got what at some time when it was supposed to be won or who didn't get something depending on whose minister he was... whether he was SDP's or HDZ's. I don't think this law went in that direction to go in the direction of improvement and that it's worth everything equally and that we choose to manage within it, and we leaders of local self-government as well, but with the right to as advocates may be able to direct the ministry in some different direction than what it says here. And that's my intention and my debate, but so is my colleague in HDZ. And no one here needs to make this law to develop their own zone or to be named after one of the MPs as it wants to impute, nor does he need it personally as the mayor, just as a person. So either something goes for the citizens or it goes for the benefit of the state itself. Government of the When we look at the statistics that are here, 700 million kuna plus someone has said two billion kunas of land value, so two billion and 700 million kunas have given birth to some 50,000 jobs and we have here concluded that this is a failed project. I am now asking if there is one similar in Croatia that is 100 thousand, so let's say the indicative, kuna role of land and infrastructure and money that this infrastructure has created a job? How much are some jobs costing us today? And a million and two and five million kunas for one job, that's not what we want to say. And it's not a failed project, but it's obviously a phase when certain problems are identified. What's the reaction? In my view, if we have 1300 zones, if we know that 347 are active, if we have some that are at the beginning of our activities then it would be normal for this law that, with the improvement, the state might look wider and make a business zone management strategy in the Republic of Croatia in a way to determine what it wants for those who are the most successful who go faster and the best, which it wants for those who are a little weaker than them, which it wants for areas close to big cities, which it wants for zones, I don't know on islands that have certain additional costs that no other zones have, and let's see what it can do with this rest that's not at all active, so we'll suggest it to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and say, gentlemen, if you've planned, and you haven't done anything to take it down. So there are possibilities, but let's solve it through a certain strategy. Why? Because the problem can't be just property. Why do we have only property and why we've come down to this debate when we know that creating a zone is a process, that no one has come into any zone with 50 objects at once, that came first, and that many others have followed it. If a successful zone like Dugopolje, such as the Kukuljanovo zone or some other zone near larger cities. It doesn't matter where the zone was created because obviously the natural position of the zone is one guarantee of one success, whether it will be found in the interest of individual entrepreneurs or will remain forgotten or not be unattractive. So that these values should be respected in this respect, not just property. Property is the least of my problems here. The process of creating the zone depends on the natural location of the zone, but also on the man about the first and only man, and that is the mayor and the mayor. He's the one who'll either develop the zone or make it and let it stand, so his activities depend on the development of the zone. We have those who want it and are active, there are those who want it because they might have some possibility, but they're not dedicated enough to create something from that zone that creates a new added value. That factor, I say today may be the loudest here in the House, the mayors, because they believe that there is a land that is inactive, owned by the Republic of Croatia and on which land they consider to have the potential to create a new value, for this state both for local self-government and for the citizens who will work there. If the state doesn't understand it, then it's her problem and she's creating restrictions that one zone like the area Mr. Klaric was talking about should not be able to fill up to that and that level, plus two more, three more fill up to and so that I would give you some land in that area. It's up to us to think about whether this is the most important moment. In my opinion, Mr. Klaric is right and why he could not get a certain level of land regardless of the planned zones if he is the most communally ready in it that he can quickly activate the potential potential of this land. Why should we limit ourselves to any percentages, any possible, I don't know, processes, situations that will arise because we immediately question what we're going to do with that land. What about that land? So We will give them to the entrepreneurs to do something about them. What is the state doing with a property that is not active? They'll have it recorded in the garter that it's her property, no one cares about it, and none of it will do anything. The state doesn't have that power, it'll always come to its part of the state, and it's called local self-government and ask if you can do anything in that part. That would be a good process. And it's not just about ownership. It's one correct relationship between local and state administration. And in the end when we have the process and the man who dragged and the zone that exists comes the investor. An investor wants to invest in what zone he wants to invest in, and so do we for choosing where and on which ground we want to build a house. Someone's gonna do it in Sinj, but they're gonna do it at my place on the island, somebody's gonna do it there, because we think we have the best conditions. There's always property number one that we've solved property, the other is that we have capital and we can do something about it. Third, they have many or good zones, traffic solutions and opportunities to be closest to large areas. And it's not easy to bring an investor into any zone and let's not approach it in a way that we're glad to always take a picture of someone who's succeeded and he's done something, but when we need to do something for him by local or state level, then we have a problem thinking about whose property it should be. I don't think property should be in trouble, i.e. should not create a problem for the development of the zone and therefore I say this law, with some improvements that we have proposed, should be adopted in order to remove certain restrictions, so that we have what we need to have good statistics and good data to direct a particular investor into a particular area. I think the law goes in that direction, that you should listen to what they're saying here, means local leaders. Because they don't talk, I say again for myself. It's no longer about titles or certain medals or cups. Because we want to do something for the citizens and have the opportunity to get something in the space that's already abandoned like this. He's not active in making something happen in that space. So here, I'm going to end up with this that they need to stop here, who got what from which government, because no one's going to convince me that the SDP's minister was once looking for the mayor of HDZ, but from the SDP that we shouldn't or can put it into a different relationship today, but that's not the criterion by which they were given, by which certain processes took place even though the debate tried to do so. I think the law is much better and it needs a little more work to be done in the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69246	Thank you. We've got more replicas again. He is the first respected representative of Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69247	I followed your debate with my colleague Boric, and I remind you once again that there is no real solution, no economy, no nothing without the management of local administrations. The best indicator is our colleague sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and the Mayor of Bakar and his zone in Kukuljanovo, where he has built over 200 objects so far where 30 buildings are built and not to say everything that has been done in recent years through his work. This is just another indication that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not made any mistakes in this city as well as in my Pleternica, because we are all people who do business and entrepreneurship, and we are the leaders of local self-government cannot predict when a potential investor will come to you. You must be prepared, you must have a zone, you must have infrastructure and prepare everything as if the investor will come to you tomorrow. Therefore, nothing was missed, and in particular it was not missed where you had to invest your own resources. At the same time you didn't get from the state of Croatia state land, and I say again, the best indicators are cities and municipalities whether larger, whether smaller where this enterprise really was recognized, where in fact here is specifically Mr. Klaric's. Somebody say he's not the manager. In the neighborhood of his municipality, they have zones, there is no construction, and with it is built daily and the rush is on all sides. So it's entrepreneurship. And the town of Pleternica as I used to speak to the current mayor and here the mayor. Such people need support, support because they create a new economic value, they create two, three kunas from the kuna. Therefore, this is not a thank you, this is the truth, and that is what our citizens need to know, and that is why these mayors are recognized by their constituents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69248	Thank you. The honourable representative, Boric, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69249	I will not praise the mayor of the city of Baker, because I remember that zone until 2005 while some other people were there and I know what has happened in the last 12 years. But I'm going to commend him as mayor because he's found the most power he's investing in this particular project because he knows what it means to his citizens. And I'm sure he did because we have a lot of reasons for that. It is close to the big city, the town of Rijeka, close to certain traffic routes and obviously there are much better conditions than I will say on my island of Rab where we have two business zones and we cannot easily activate them because it is simply not easy. And surely, in this respect, he is his own, meaning the powers to develop it, and he has succeeded in doing so along with the people who are considering the area. It's not all about him, it's up to a lot of other people of his associates, and it's that management. It's a man who does something, and the natural position is added value to it. And if the state allows him to get more land that is already close to communal equipment not to limit it from the other three zones that he has yet to plan or develop, he will help him and the state will benefit from it multiplely, and that is where our debate comes down during the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69250	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69251	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague, Boric, here I really agree, so the strategy is needed, you've talked a lot about how necessary the strategy is to plan well and to make better use of these existing zones. Also, some new zones will be able to activate. Well, in that sense, I'm going back in some way to this subject of untapped entrepreneurial zones. We definitely have to say that we have this area in Vodice in 2009, and that is available at all, so we have the information that these 65 ha were separated from the property of the Croatian forests and assigned, so the town of Vodice as we then became owners of the entire area. And that's what I'm saying. So, from that time on, the whole entrepreneurship zone hasn't been used, so again, I wonder if you have any idea that this law is actually going to help us not only for this zone, but also for, we've heard about how many zones are actually not used. Of the 1300s, all the 350s were all used together. So in that sense, I asked, how could this law or have any other idea to put that into function?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69252	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69253	Thank you very much. I think that your insistence on the zone around the city of Vodice obviously has some personal relationship with the lady here sitting next to me, but you were in elections, you citizens didn't recognize her, and independently of that zone it's just obvious that at one point when the state stopped funding infrastructure within the zone and that zone came into a particular problem, because obviously that the city didn't have enough funds to do next to the zone... that next to the area Stankovci and that area imposed as a zone in which I don't know twenty, fifty investors who will invest. Which doesn't mean that it's missed, and it doesn't mean that there's no time in front of us where it can happen, given that the zones are still filling up, regardless of how we sometimes go negatively towards this government and towards the state itself as our country itself, which we want to constantly criticize, because nothing is wrong, and that everything is bad. And I don't think so. And this project is a successful project for me, because for 100,000 kunas, some roles in land and infrastructure in almost money, it created a job. 50,000 jobs aren't a meaningless number. And this project lasts ten years and probably in the next ten years there's room to happen and another 50,000 if we're going to be wise, smart and living that we can through a law that is applicable to ensure that the zones develop. And the zone, I say who the zone depends on both man and space i.e. the natural resource and the transport resource where it is located and not everything is always just up to the first or the last in the zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69254	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69255	Dear fellow Boric, it is simply incomprehensible to listen today, the entire time mentions 1,000 and some zone in the Republic of Croatia. Those areas that aren't active are just a dead letter on paper written in a spatial plan. A stoner before, the forest was before and now. The moment it's activated, and if activated, it'll become an activated zone. And it's meaningless to talk about. And when you talk about who should be praised? I think they're wrong about numbers here because they're talking about billions of kunas that the state has invested. And in their report here they write nicely, in the interpretation of this law, that in 2004 to 2013, the letter and the number of states invested 701 million kuna and 347 business zones were activated and 50,000 jobs opened. Amen. Now let's think about what the state has invested. She gave some kind of land and estimated some value. But that land is still dead, if someone didn't activate it, someone did something to him. And all these 50,000 jobs that are open every month go to pension funds, tax revenues go, all these 347 business zones are being paid into the state budget and developed. And now the difference between those 1,000 zones and these 347 so that 2,000 people are bothered by them? The local self-government units are planning their space, they're drawing that something is going to be as far as this business activity is going to go, but at any moment we have to have the investor's land ready because we're not going to get it. And the investor can't wait for you to settle property law to build his infrastructure and sing him fairy tales. Bureaucracies are full of this country. The moment you get the land ready, when you make the plateaus, the investors will come, and no one in the front knows who it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69256	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69257	Comrade Klaric, here are our discussions similar, I think that we, within the HDZ Club, have tried to direct this debate in a positive sense that the Secretary of State and the Ministry respect certain thoughts, if they think it contributes to the state. I consider that contributions, we have certain experiences, you have shown this in practice on this example, we others are trying to reach certain levels that within the zone we have investors and the necessary infrastructure, but in the country it is always the task of not stopping something. It means that it doesn't stop or that some kind of administrative article, that it puts itself in trouble that it can't make decisions. Because if you write an article like this, it's better than it was, but it's not good. And it's not the best thing to think about, and I hope that by the second reading it will be because we may have to react in a different way, if we think that something that can be better limits us that we can't accomplish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69258	And the last replica of the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69259	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, the amendments to this Bill proposal are heading right towards improving the entire system of supporting institutions, i.e. entrepreneurship infrastructures. The possibility of a joint establishment of a business zone will certainly trigger perhaps some for those who are not active, here I must mention exactly the area from which I come, that famous area of Sibinj. You were here today talking about the first people, that they are very important because indeed the town of Slavonski Brod has such a geographical position located on the highway A3, rail corridor C5, we have our own river port. However, our entrepreneurial zones are very poorly filled or almost not filled. Of course I agree with you that some strategy on economic zones could definitely improve or improve that economic picture in such areas, especially now that every day we are witnessing a massive eviction from Slavonia, so here I agree with you that the strategy on economic zones should perhaps be something that we should think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69260	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69261	Thank you very much. Well, I personally think that if we see that there is a problem that we have the opportunity to finance certain infrastructure projects within the zone from the European Union's funds, from the European Union's funds. It may be good to have such a document that will make it easier for both the ministry itself and the state to distribute these funds and which will not prevent them from developing best, which will allow them to become weaker and have a certain level of plan and goal to come. Because without a goal, it's just every time it can be guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69262	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69263	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the proposer's representative. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, in our first reading, we are discussing the necessary changes and additions to the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. This law comes down and the most interesting thing is this provision that simply if we want to develop some space for entrepreneurship in our community to change or remove the limitations that we had in the past. The data we have on entrepreneurship zones and support entrepreneurship institutions are also further defined. Now, we often here through the debate have somehow been embellished or the opinion of the opposition is that too many business or entrepreneurship zones. Can we say that's the case? Because yet every municipality in its space needs to plan some space for entrepreneurial activities. She's working on a spatial plan before that. This spatial plan goes beyond the agreement of both the State and the Ministry of Construction and the various other institutions involved. And after that, she asks the state to prepare that space for entrepreneurship. We need to understand that state land is the former social land currently managed by the state. In situations where municipalities or local self-government are seeking this land for management, no activity is carried out in that area, and municipalities prove by their plans that they can bring it to a purpose and that they will try to attract these entrepreneurs, investors. We know, or somehow today, when we debate as if we are not aware of these facts that entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are mostly over-indebted. Their debt is 90% of gross domestic product, and we know that we're going to need a lot of effort to attract them and activate them in those areas where they're planned for entrepreneurship zones. And it is not clear what this debate is about if we say that certain restrictions have been put in place to prevent state land from being given to local self-government units which are essentially part of the institutions that should be managed by them. If we say that in 2004, Mr Sanader divided all HDZ's land and that the land was not managed in any way, this provision, or its removal, will allow other allegedly SDP's municipalities that do not have the land to launch it, to revive it, and not be threatened by the fact that some municipalities allegedly received land under a political premise and do nothing about it. It also means we're definitely here discussing who's to blame for why these zones aren't activated. The blame is in the first row and the crisis, and of course a lot depends on the individual municipality. Today, when the debate was being discussed, it was about species and data that were missing about these entrepreneurial areas. But I think these are changes and additions and it's not easy to follow what these laws are passed, but most MPs here can say it or read the amendments and additions, or read the basic law. It is therefore clear in Article 10, which amends Article 10(2), that a single register is spoken of and that the data to be provided on all entrepreneurship support institutions or zones are added. In addition, Article 6 of the amending and supplementing the law states that these are general data contained in Article 11 of the basic law. Also in Article 7 of the amendment and addition, we are talking about the fact that the law amends Article 12 where we say that units of local self-government or management of entrepreneurship zones, supporting institutions must supply general and accurate data. And when we say that the state here spends no money, we have to remind that for example. For example, in 2015, about 4 billion kunas were spent. We know that as far as this entrepreneur is concerned, a lot of these funds have been spent on the promotion, on the advertising of the entrepreneurial impulse. A lot of entrepreneurs spent their resources on the application, and most of them didn't. And that's how we can mention the Bakar area here in Bakr where only 30 million kuna investments arrive in the past month alone. What we have been saying and about the strategic approach that we are supposed to be missing, we all know that European funds are being used to launch and finance entrepreneurship zones and institutions today. This is what studies and strategies are made for. But in order to plan these projects at all, in order to be able to do studies, we need to get an opportunity from the state to give it to us for use or for ownership. It is also mentioned that there should certainly be a deadline for one detention purpose. I have to remind myself that that deadline was in both the past law and this so I don't know what we discussed today. Why is there fear that on land that the state does not touch or plans to give it to local self-government to try to do something about it? If it does not, the previous law and these amendments and additions shall provide for a period within which it must be carried out, and most of the entrepreneurship or business zones shall also provide for a time limit when certain land is sold or, with a small fee, it shall also provide for entrepreneurs and shall also provide for a period within which they must activate it. We mentioned some examples of the captains who are inactive, not using this land. If so, this law will contribute to the fact that they do not have to suffer neighboring municipalities. Certainly with this situation and the crisis that we have had and this responsibility of entrepreneurs, it is certainly a rationalization of space, an organisation of space, one advantage that will reduce future investors' costs and encourage them. And what I would like to point out is that these municipalities that did not use these funds for purpose were strongly mentioned in 2013 which was then asked by Minister Maras of the municipalities of 14.3 million kuna. And it's amazing to even mention this amount as important, when we see that investments in some zones were 30 million euros in just a month. And she would point out for the end, meaning that out of the existing jobs only on contributions to the state's salaries, from workers working in entrepreneurship zones, 500 million kuna is paid annually, and that since the start of entrepreneurship zones, you have invested 700 million. So now we're multiplying it by all these years. I think that this revenue and the benefits of all of it, and we have a profit tax, which is the income of the state budget, so in large part this debate was pointless, this restriction should be lifted and supported, encouraged and given opportunity to municipalities that planned a space for investment to bring him back to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69264	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69265	Dear colleagues, you have well noticed that part of the debate here was obvious, in a way, that those who discussed it did not read at all what this was about. And then most of the time, we just focused on the matter that's about the country. For example, no one here has mentioned that free zones have gone through these changes and additions to entrepreneurship infrastructure. But just a question and land, which is crucial for the zone to be put into operation, just one little prominence, what needs to be continued, in order to run any activity in that zone at all. From the beginning of the idea itself, to the introduction of provisions into the spatial plan, the adoption of an urban plan, to the production of complete project documentation, and then only to provide the means to build and organise something. And what astounds what the previous Government of 2013, in 2014, drew such stupid criteria, I must say so, which we now say all day long that even these criteria which are also of this proposal, amendments and additions to the law, would also be rigorous, because we have a contract, a contract, which obliges someone who gets something from the state to put it into office, otherwise it must return. If he puts it into function, he can sell it, but the revenues from it must be used to build and put into operation, it is an industrial or business zone and amen. Done. And is she in the spatial plan active or not active? Who should be interested in that? It depends on the geostrategic situation, on the current situation, whether the economic crisis, on the investor's interest, but the land, the terrain, is ready. And it depends on the skill, the leader of the local self-government units and his associates. It doesn't matter if it's about Anti Pranic or if it's about Tomislav Klaric or Dragica Roscic, it's about cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69266	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69267	I thank my colleague, and this is the way I draw criticism, today, which, when we discuss, means, often colleagues speak, I think they should, and before that, not read, which is in the law, what the law prescribes. If they're not lawyers, they don't understand, I can ask the motionary's representative, which with this thought, is whether it isn't. And it doesn't stand here for two, three hours and then it gets up and I think it should, it shouldn't be good, and it actually didn't read that, so basically one very small proposal for change and supplementation and nonsense is being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69268	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69269	Thank you very much, counsellor, when I'm in a moment to counsel, i.e. You have determined what your right is, that MPs... read these 30 articles, I do not believe, colleagues Pranic, Klaric and Boris. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague has not read this law is significant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, that finding of yours does not stand, only if you have proof. However, it is also a fact that Croatia, what, that house that is being shortened, if the stone is in the beginning, is wrongly placed in the foundations, the whole house is tilting, tilting and falling. The fact that the foundations were wrongly laid. So everything we're saying here, basically we're talking about no ozone, when we're talking, then we're saying that the state gives 76 million kuna... for all zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on a daily basis, I guarantee that there were more incentives and donations in Agrokor. That they were subsidizing who knows what. So it's not that simple. The fact is that when it comes and who has the goal, it will come to a goal, such as the Mayor of Vrgorca, Bakar, etc. He'll get to the finish line. But the fact is, the state can be a brake. And this law, too, is a pamphlet, and if there is no support, where support is to be provided, and not to support empty papers and only spatial plans, as counterpart Klaric said, it was formerly a purchaser and a stoner, now it is a stoner of blackberries, we see in the papers simply these zones should be put into freezing status, and those that are developing, give the opportunity to develop even more. And that's the whole point of the story. Otherwise, this will remain only as a pamphlet and I support my colleague Klaric here, and Boris spoke well in this direction, and I expect that's how my colleague Pranic will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69270	Honorable representative, Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69271	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I am pleased to conclude that you agree with this law and that he will support it, because all its provisions are going to contribute to exactly what you have stated, that the current problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69272	The next individual debate is the respected representative Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we listen all day long about changing the laws on entrepreneurship infrastructure, which is very important to all locations, to those who want to develop such objects in their area. But when we sum up a complete bill, I would say that it is one cosmetic change, that there are no reform changes, if we continue to reform the law at this speed, which binds to entrepreneurship, you can absolutely give us the whole area from the Republic of Croatia to the cities, but there will be no people because people will move out. Look from our rural area, making Dalmatian burns, making like, making Slavonia. I don't think there's a crucial problem being solved, and this problem is related to property-legal relations. So it doesn't matter if the state leaves a unit of local self-government 100 acres or whatever if within those 100 acres there's a thousand squares of private property. It's really one big problem that we're all facing. A colleague from Bakra talked about it. There is one legal path, but that legal path is extremely complicated. Therefore, such laws should also be discussed in a second set of laws that would systematically solve such problems. To say that we have a lot of zones is illusory, because if we all summed up at the level of the Republic of Croatia how many free squares of municipally equipped infrastructures we can present to investors, I think there would be even more demand for squares than we would have free squares. Because many economic zones do not have a basic infrastructure or have resolved the applicable permits of their basic infrastructure, so there is a situation where a colleague from Bjelovar spoke about selling land where the investor is dragged into the story, concluded with it a contract, later the investor has a big problem with obtaining a building permit without talking about the applicable permits. Developing, so when you give us land to develop basic infrastructure is really hard. That's what I said today in the first line to you. 73 million kuna at the level of the Republic of Croatia has been foreseen for all units of local self-government to co-finance the basic infrastructure. That can't even develop 50 acres. I'm just looking in my zone. Otherwise, 18 months ago, I became mayor of the city, and there was not even 5% of the first phase. Today we have 85% fill-in and 130 million kuna private investment. But also as chief, it was not difficult for me to go to Congress in Vienna and Germany, or to Turkey or the Development Agency... to connect the Varazdin County and look for investors. And I think we have a very big problem at the level of the Republic of Croatia where all units of local self-government are leaders and commissioners are on their own, wandering around and we have one body in the form of an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, but I don't think it's doing its job. So far, there has been no joint meeting that this agency or anyone else within the Ministry of Economy has organised, brought all the mayors and mayors who have ready zones, ready infrastructure and presented them to one investor, whether the word of any market in the Middle European or Far East, or others. Personally, I think that if one hectare of state land is given for one job that is very useful and important, because if you go to the rural area and come to the Dalmatian Zagora, you will see in fact that all people and young people are leaving and moving out. Also an important problem that we have from local self-government, I hope you could get rid of through a set of changes, which is the relations between the state institutions of Croatian Waters and HEP towards such important investments, because it is not normal for me to get a useful permit for my access road so I wait for HEP a year to do his work and everything else. I don't think there's any connection between institutions to bring such investments to an end. Well, it is no wonder when we speak at the level of Croatia how many economic zones we have empty, because it is not all, nor are we always guilty of the mayor and the mayor. I think it's a good thing that a 20-mile limit is lifted, and I said in my single line about the provisions of 66% fill in the entrepreneurial zone, it's important to define which entrepreneurship zones because it can be an entrepreneurial 100-hectare zone, if it's built in phase, it's important that this 66% define an existing area that has a useful permit not to enter the part that isn't built at all in these 66% ratios because it can be a brake. We'll make amendments. It'll be a lot of reform at the second reading, so I hope some will be adopted as well. But above all, I believe that a set of all other laws should be adopted to develop entrepreneurship infrastructure in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69274	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69275	Representative Pranic, you indicated at the introduction that ownership in part of local self-government, for example. The Dalmatian Zagora is the least important whether it's a state or a unit of local self-government, because it's simply how it's been going so far as local leaders get their licenses to rot as they settle their property, so it's been years, and in those years you're right to leave young people. So they're moving out, simply that country will remain empty. So what's important here is that the administration and this law that has no reform effect other than a few of those items that you've made and these proposals that need to be changed, basically it doesn't in itself have some kind of force for the reform they're going to spin, and it doesn't have a cover in funding. In the state budget, I repeat again, 76 million were provided for all areas in the Republic of Croatia for support. Is that enough for you, you are the leader of local self-government, you are developing a zone and what your reference is to these funds when we know that the daily dose for pumping in Agrokor during Ivica Todorovic are daily doses of 76 million kuna, and this is for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia for the development of entrepreneurship. So it's more invested in those who've been holding back entrepreneurship, so this is just a pamphlet... Only at these cash amounts, there's no change in that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69276	The answer of the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69277	You've well noticed a colleague related to too little funds that have been allocated to local self-government units. I'll just tell you on my example. We are preparing a second phase of an economic zone of 15 million kuna, and I know that certain mayors and mayors of our area are also preparing, so I see that many will be rejected since we have very little resources allocated. But you have well noticed in the area of Dalmatia or Dalmatia Zagora if we only take one move from Split to Dubrovnik and if we have one foreign investor who currently needs 20 hectares of available communally equipped terrain, he simply cannot find it. Well, of course, one such investor will look for a similar location in neighbouring countries or in a neighboring area, so we should not be surprised why our young ones leave the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69278	The next replica is the respected representative Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69279	Dear counterpart Pranic, I simply like to listen to debates that mention a particular problem. Now, speaking of this law and what you mentioned about HEP, the construction of plumbing, Croatian waters if we watch some kind of blow orchestra or singing choir. If the instruments are broken down, you'll never get any real music out of them, not even a good sound. Everyone will laugh, and the compositions will never come out. And that's the example of, say, laws like this. Such an example is among other things what will have to be discussed here in the Assembly if we want to fix something is the question of HEP and its behaviour precisely in matters of building their infrastructure in order to put the zones into operation. Because land is the least of the problems. They will accept the Ministry's trust and the government of this suggestion, because they are so reasonable, realistic and operational and should be accepted. But there are other things to think about. Because when we look at that law on the availability of state property that we were talking about the other day and we're comparing it to this now. There is no possibility of donation, there is a possibility of being available, and there is even talk that we will have to pay to the State, or to pay the funds that we have received from the foundation of that land. We're talking about something else here. So that's where we can see that this orchestra has a little bit to be set up. But as long as we don't start talking this way about how project documentation is done, how something is built, how much effort does it take to make something real, let alone attract an investor. Because I repeat again, no investor is going to make land in any area, any city if there is no water, unless there's no electricity, unless there's no gas, unless there's a road built and a connection to the main roads and that part, and that part of someone has to do it. And that part is done by people down in the field and those people down in the field are not looking for anything else. I'm here for what I'm saying. I believe I speak for them. They are only looking for legislation that will allow them to implement their projects more quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69280	Thank you. My colleague Pranic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69281	My colleague and I have agreed on a lot today, because I think we all have the same problems with local self-government units that develop entrepreneurship infrastructure. You said one sentence in your presentation of the previous one, and I'm not just gonna look back at the replica of state property, and that's where we had the same attitude on the construction area in '91. and agricultural land relations. I am absolutely in favour of both functional decentralisation and spatial decentralisation and financial decentralisation, so it is not as clear to me that we must invest in the communal infrastructure of all these zones. And all the investors come in, they open up new jobs, they have a profit tax that's neatly bought into the state budget and we don't stay. If we only had 20% left, I speak for further regulation of economic zones we'd have a lot more jobs. But no one in this country understands that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69282	On behalf of the promoter, the word will now be taken by the secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, respected Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69283	Dear Chairman, thank you very much, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here after this long debate, I would say, I thank all those who have been constructively involved. In any case, all those who have gone down, read the main provisions, stressing the amendments and additions to the law, the existing law, and citing the important changes that have been made. I would absolutely like to stress that the purpose and purpose of these changes is primarily to facilitate investment and create new jobs through business zones in the Republic of Croatia. As we all know the goal of this government is to increase the competitiveness of the economy and it is one only small segment in the whole story that will help. I would like to point out on the issue of this law that we in the Ministry of Economy are absolutely aware of the complexity and integrity of this issue, and we have approached it very thoroughly and professionally. The analysis of complete entrepreneurial infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is under way. An expert scientific institution is working on the analysis. The aim of this analysis is to actually know what we, with which we have everything in Croatia, are to have exactly how active it is taking into account these entrepreneurial zones owned by which states, which unit of local self-government as well as private ones. What are our trends and what are our role models in the neighbourhood and the European Union. And with this analysis, make some recommendations on how to form, how to encourage entrepreneurship infrastructure, or to form entrepreneurship infrastructure in the future in the Republic of Croatia. This analysis will be completed sometime by half this year and it will be the basis for making believe, I will not point out this in particular now, but I believe in special better and better-quality regulations that will allow exactly what many MPs have constructively pointed out. As for several important issues that have emerged through this constructive debate, I would like to point out that the active part of the entrepreneurship zone means that part of the active, available land. So, for example, it's not a road, sewerage or anything like that, it's an active land available on which it started certain entrepreneurial activity in terms of starting construction or expansion or something like that. The theme of what percentage is correct, whether it's 66%, whether it's 76%, whether it's 50%, it's always a matter of some estimate. I believe that this is not the best solution everywhere, but in any case after this first reading we are still ready to listen to quality and creative suggestions, and I am sure through this Mr. Klaric pointed out through concrete examples what possible shortcomings we can still address and how to make these amendments and amendments to the law more acceptable and more usable and faster implementation in practical examples. It should certainly be noted that by putting free zones into entrepreneurship... institutions, therefore, by treating them as entrepreneurship zones, we open up new opportunities for them, additional opportunities for development, which is for infrastructure equipment and we believe that this is a very good move. But as I said by looking at the full infrastructure of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, I'm sure after that thorough analysis we'll be much smarter and we'll know how to recognize and create a regulation that will be, whose purpose and purpose is what we all want, the greater competitiveness of the economy and the greater number of jobs. I would also like to point out there is always a complete legal procedure including public debate, giving opinions of various resolutions, giving or considering these laws on parliamentary committees, and I believe that there is also an opportunity for certain parliamentary representatives to give their ideas, their comments, their suggestions, what and how to change, to be, of course, in order to improve this law and to benefit first of all, entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69284	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69285	In your closing statement, secretary, you said there is a strategy coming up in the next half of the year, and I think it's enough for Croatian and Croatian entrepreneurs to have new plans, strategies. In six months, there will be no number in Croatia, and these 67% are good at the end, and you can see that as a man, that you have admitted that it was obvious, from the eye means assessment, not by any professional analysis, but by eye you have said 67% of the construction, which is what your colleagues have been all along, mostly the leaders of local self-government here and warned you. I would prefer you to answer, and it would be best if the minister came here today because this is a very important law for local self-government entrepreneurs, but there is obviously not enough electricity to come before the Croatian Parliament, that these questions about what about HEP which slows down the development of entrepreneurs' arrival in the entrepreneurial zone are not enough electricity, what about Croatian waters, permits. I can tell you that, for example. Blue zone, everything's ready, we've got the infrastructure completely but there's not enough power power. And these have been applications for years to build up if if a stronger investor just doesn't have electricity, but it doesn't care about the system so the strategies talk about new plans in half a year it's all too late. It's too late. It's already too late. I therefore expect the minister to make it easier for local self-government leaders such as HEP and institutions and the entire public service to be at their service in developing these entrepreneurial zones, not the main brakes. Otherwise, this law will remain only an empty letter on paper, inconclusive, not enough resources and therefore local leaders will be unhappy with this law. It's all the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69286	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69287	Dear Representative Bulj, just to point out I did not say a strategy, I said an analysis of the state of entrepreneurship infrastructure, these are two completely different categories, and this will be the basis for a new regulatory framework which I believe will include all the problems you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69288	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69289	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, in your final address you mentioned on several occasions the word competitiveness, that this law wants to increase the competitiveness of the economy. However, we believe that this proposal to amend and supplement this law will not do much to increase this competitiveness. I will rely on what Mr. Klaric said that we are getting a feeling of a broken orchestra just in non-cooperation in certain parts regarding the increase of that competitiveness between the competent ministries. You also said in this text that this law defines different categories of entrepreneurship and support institutions more precisely. I'm only gonna say one thing because none of the parliamentary deputies talked about it today, and these are the centres of competence. We have been talking about these competence centers for many years and we are also encouraging these centres to be launched because, despite the fact that many young people are leaving, the economies who have been coming to us have not been able to meet the adequate qualified workforce, and right in cooperation between the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Education and the units of local self-government and the Chamber of Commerce and the owners themselves have not been able to start yet this dual system of education that is the easiest way to build a factory, the easiest way to bring infrastructure, is to buy machines, but we do not have adequate labour. And I think that's exactly the part where that broken orchestra is missing to fit in. And the next is through your final address you haven't mentioned and answered whether you're thinking about really that communal infrastructure, means roads, gas, electricity including that part that's outside the zone, and that it's built for the needs of the zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69290	Thank you. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69291	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 259. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure and under 2nd all observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them, when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 32 abstentions and 2 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69292	So we move to the next point, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 218. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and craft Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69293	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Here we go in a similar tone. So this is about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, second reading. It came out of the need to improve the existing legislative framework, which is otherwise very well accepted in the entrepreneurial environment in Croatia. The law is also further in line with Commission Regulation of 641/2014. After the European Commission has called on the competent authority, which is our Ministry of Harmonisation of Article 15 of the applicable Investment Encouragement Act and the Commission Regulation 2017/1084 and the State Aid Act. In the opening statement, I would like to point out that, with the basis of the current legislative framework, a total of 770 applications have been received so far for the use of support from small, medium and large entrepreneurs, and for the duration until October 2012 and until 15 January this year. Of these, 144 applications relate to projects of large entrepreneurs and 626 to projects of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The amount of investment in 691 reported projects because several twenty and some applications were rejected, and 53 entrepreneurs gave up. Therefore, the amount of these 691 investment projects reported are projects that are approved and which are in processing amounts of cca 32.1 billion kuna with the planned opening of 17,800 new jobs. Of that, more than 14 and a half billion kuna and nearly 6,000 new jobs are related to major business projects while more than 17.6 billion kuna, with the planned opening of nearly 12,000 new jobs, relate to projects of small and medium-sized enterprises. These investment projects relate to the Mediterranean industry in the range of 16% and tourism, wood processing 12%, ICT 9, the food processing industry 8, the production of machinery and equipment 6, the production of rubber and plastic products 4% and to other industries of printing, textile, production of electrical equipment and transformers, recycling and construction, and less than 3%. The most reported projects are implemented in the City of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia, Zagrebačka, Varazdinsko and Međimurje County. As I pointed out, the amendments and additions to the existing legislative framework are being made, and the proposed measures set out how and deadlines for meeting all the necessary investment activities and want to achieve the following: - raising the technological level of equipment of the Croatian economy; - entering new equipment and modern technologies; - developing products and services of more added value and employment growth, - increasing entrepreneurial competitiveness and even regional development and economic activation of existing inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. The incentive measures set out in this legislative proposal relate to investment projects and to the strengthening of competitive capacity in productive processing activities, development innovation activities, business support activities and high value added services activities. The proposed changes and additions introduce more favourable conditions for the achievement of the aid, i.e. incentive measures for investment in micro-enterprise investment cases, and allow them to be recognised as the cost of an investment project by 5 years of age. So far, it's just a case of new equipment. Entrepreneurs have so far had to meet a minimum of three jobs during a one-year period, so micro-entrepreneurs, now allowing them to meet the conditions of opening new jobs within three years of the start of the investment. So it's a measure aimed primarily at micro-entrepreneurs. More favourable conditions are introduced for the use of investment support in the ICT sector, i.e. the minimum amount of investment needed to achieve the right to use the aid is reduced by 2/3 more precisely from 150 to 50 000 euros in kuna equivalent to the creation of minimum new jobs. Such projects will be able to benefit from a reduction in profit tax ranging from 25 to 50% depending on the size of entrepreneurs. Furthermore, new support is being introduced for investment projects in economically inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, according to the new classification of the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, there are more units of local self-government than according to current qualifications, assets of the Republic of Croatia which are not in function and carried out, and where no economic or other activity of importance for the Republic of Croatia or for a unit of local regional self-government in which inactive property is held is allowed to rent inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia to private entrepreneurs over a period of up to a maximum of 10 years and without paying any compensation and rent, provided that they invest 3 million euros within 3 years in a project for which they need that state property, and that they increase the value of the property by 50%. At the end of that maximum period, 10 years of performance of the contractual obligations, the promoter of the investment project shall acquire the right to purchase an active asset in accordance with the assessment of the market value of the asset prior to its economic activation. This measure also has an effect on revenue from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the economic activation of inactive assets from the RH portfolio moves those assets from the cost position into the position of the revenue of the budget and after the end of the activation period. It reduces the amount of total fiscal support for the amount of inactive assets included in the investment project, while respecting the rules on state and regional aid, i.e. up to the allowed level of support for investment in accordance with regional support maps. The law also extends the concept of logistics and distribution centres as well as acceptable projects for the use of investment support, which are not so far exclusively related to the production processing activities of the investment project. In relation to first reading, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouraging Act was included the proposal of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament for a more precise no-technical definition of Article 13 which defines the extension of the prescribed development of the number of money or jobs associated with the investment project, when, due to unfavourable market conditions in the Republic of Croatia, there is a reduction of the prescribed number during one calendar year. In this case, the investment support beneficiaries shall not cease to be entitled to use the aid. The improvement of the legislative framework to boost investment in 2020 is expected to increase the number of approved investment projects by 50 projects per year and increase the total value of the investment project by around 1.2 billion kuna per year. Finally, the issue proposed to be regulated by the proposed final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act will contribute to the increase of the realised investment project, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic activation of inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia, and more uniform regional development of the Republic of Croatia. For the implementation of this law, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, provided for in the division of the Ministry of Economy and the budgetary resources in the planning of the budget for the next 3 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69294	Thank you. ... Honored representative Giovanni Sponze. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Secretary of State, I have a brief and clear question for which I kindly ask and a concrete answer. The question is, will all, in all units of local self-government, be given equal legal conditions, based on this law? Please don't shut up like before my colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69296	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69297	Your Honor, I have no intention of overcoming the answers, whether it is support under the state's allowed support, and they are in line with regional support, so in line with the indexation, which I believe is being adopted or adopted by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69298	The next replica is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69299	Here, Mr. Secretary of State, since you answered my colleague Sponzi, now I'm going to ask you the same question I had on my first reading. If these entrepreneurs are placed in units of local self-government that have an index of development higher, they are placed in an unequal position. Namely, if you have one factory hall, which has been abandoned for 20 years, which is managed by the state and is state-owned and there is the interest of entrepreneurs, that according to this new bill is rented, while another in a municipality where some index is smaller, it has the right to do so. We think it's just discrimination and there's no healthy logic about that proposal we made, and you didn't accept it. We therefore believe that the state in these examples, as in that first law on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure, excluded itself as a state, to pay penalties for non-execution of certain obligations, also in this part, for these entrepreneurial halls, which are not used in your property and you do not know how to manage, you do not pay a communal fee. And that's where you got out, at least that's what you pay the local self-government, because it's untapped. And now you're continuing to develop and those with a growth index big in an unequal position. We don't think it's even constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69300	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69301	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. De facto you should give up this replica, but I won't, it's about the next one. In fact, when he spoke about this law, it was concluded that this law was not an island for itself, but that it was bound by other laws, not only by the EU directive but also by the State Aid Act, but also by the State Secretary and by the proposal of the Law on State Property Management. So then we talked about similar things that Mr. Tulio Demetlika was talking about. Of course, I come from an area of assisted areas and I certainly do well with this measure relating to inactive property, but I also think that it should be discussed, that all those assets that are not perspective and not active, that they can actually be given to the management of cities and municipalities related to incentives and investments. So what I wanted to talk about is actually that, although at the head, I support and I am glad and that the Ministry of Economy and your entire team has thought about raising and technological levels and introducing new equipment, especially modern product development technologies and services related to more added value. So maybe you should think about this, not politicizing, but really thinking about, that there's real estate that can be put into operation, this way they're inoperable and very ugly in certain units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69302	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69303	Dear Secretary of State, during your presentation, you mentioned one important detail among other things. So, every investor, when he initially comes to the first conversations in contact with us, asks and asks what are his benefits, what are his conditions, what can he count on. And I think this is good thinking, to enable that part of the right to buy, after a certain period, when he puts into office his object, when he hires, he honors all of his contractual obligations and that price is exactly the price that was at the moment he came to that land. ... Another important detail to work out, 10 years ago, when investors came to us, they found it highly unacceptable, and most of all because of banks, negotiating the right to build. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As we move away, this instrument is increasingly interesting, and I think this law should think about it, too, but to be encouraging. I think that the right to build in the very sense of income from that foundation is not as important as it is to put this land and that entrepreneur in office to hire people and service the part of the tax revenue that belongs to the state, units of local self-government or local self-government units. But to make this instrument of real construction so encouraging that it amounts to funds if the land is put into operation more symbolic than real because we are coming into a situation that if it were to go on incentivising measures by cities and municipalities towards the entrepreneur to question the guessing of someone, then I think it creates one barrier when making such decisions, and the instrument is very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69304	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be a respected representative of Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69305	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. We are facing amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act from 2015, which enables existing and newly established companies to use investment support, with the minimum investment amount approved by the incentive measures of exactly 150 000 euros, with a condition that at least 5 new jobs are created in the investment period of 3 years after the start of the investment. So one framework from the very adoption of the law to these amendments and the additions that took place within the framework of this system for our entrepreneurs was significant and interesting incentive measures from tax benefits which represent a reduction in the profit tax rate of 50 to 100% over a period of 10 years or the exploitation of the maximum aid intensity itself, to free money support for new jobs. Free money support for the project's capital costs is the same in terms of a maximum of half to a million euros. Refunds for training and training related to investments themselves, and support for development innovation activities and free support for the purchase of equipment and machinery for up to half a million euros. Support for business support and high value added services activities and support for labour-intense investment projects to increase support for new jobs. In particular, the award of aid shall take into account the criteria of registered unemployment rates in the counties where the investment in question is realised and the support is granted for investment projects in manufacturing and processing activities, development-innovation activities and business support activities and high value added services activities. Data on the implementation of exactly this legislative framework to encourage investment show and record a certain number of years of encouraging and good results in the area of investment itself and promoting high added value and in the metal-processing industry by introducing new production processes technologies and expanding the quality of the product itself. Through a comprehensive investment support system, it also encourages the achievement of the strategic economic objective of the Republic of Croatia, which is to increase the competitiveness of the economy and meet all the preconditions and conditions for only increasing exports. The statistical indicators of the application of this law have already been introduced to us by the State Secretary, so the law on stimulating investment, which has been in force since October 2015 and the previous one on the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment since October 2012, has received a significant number of applications from large, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs. A small percentage means some 70 applications have been denied or entrepreneurs themselves have given up which is not now an excessive percentage. But here, statistics show us that the planned investment height of these remaining projects means some 660 reported, either in processing, or some 32 billion kunas have been approved, which is both making 17,000 and 500 new jobs, which is quite significant. The investment projects themselves refer to what is important and to highlight the meditative industry, means 16%, tourism 14%, wood processing industry 12%, ACT 8%, food processing industry 7%, and production of machines and equipment 5%. And what the same secretary of state pointed out is where the largest number of projects have been approved and, of course, the City of Zagreb with a size of about 109. It is also good to point out incentivically that behind it is the Split-Dalmatia County with 58 entrepreneurial projects, then Zagrebačka, Varazdinska and Međimurska County. The total planned value of 252 approved investment projects amounts to some 11 billion kuna, with the planned achievement slightly less. around 10,000 new jobs and to the extent of investment is approved for 242 companies, 16 crafts and 119 small, 74 medium and 65 large entrepreneurs. It is precisely these amendments and additions that not only introduce certain innovations, but normally bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in the areas of encouraging investment. Basic issues that want to be regulated by these changes and additions, with more favourable conditions for supporting ACT projects, a reduction in the minimum level of initial investment from 150 000 to 50,000 euros with a minimum of 10 new jobs. This recognition of the entry and use of equipment and machines up to a maximum of 5 years of age and the extension of the period of obligation to open three new jobs from one to three years from the start of the investment project has been added to the definition and extension of the concept of logistics and distribution centres, and it is important to note exactly and related to this law that preceded this, but also to the previous days when we discussed both agricultural land and state property. This law definitely places an emphasis on inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia and the activation of the same by leased precisely such assets for new investment projects. Ways of achieving all of this, giving in a 10-year lease of inactive property owned by the Republic of Croatia with the release of the lease on the basis of the contract, and according to the regulations governing the management of the state property of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the units of local and regional self-government classified in assisted areas, means by the Ministry indexation and expansion of the application of the area itself. The total amount of support selected by the basis of these amendments shall include the value of the fee for the lease of inactive property. They shall not exceed the maximum amount of the total aid provided that the construction, market value, of any fair value allocated to the inactive property after the realisation of the investment itself is increased by 50% of the value of the property at the time of the lease without compensation. After the end of that ten-year period and the fulfilment of contractual obligations, the promoters of the investment project shall acquire the right to purchase precisely and the assets activated by the investment incentive regulation will prescribe the procedure and methodology. It is important to note in the end that this proposal will fill somehow three functions and three activities drawn by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is an increase in implemented projects and a great emphasis on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which we think is definitely the future of the Croatian economy, but also that important emphasis and an important item, which is the activation of inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. And of course what goes through every law like this and what is the emphasis of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that is the even regional development of the whole country. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69306	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Honorable Agent Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69307	Dear colleague Bačić, you took part in the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club. You cited the advantages of this law and eventually said that among the three basic documents, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are being assisted. You heard the question I specifically asked the secretary of state that I wouldn't repeat. I thank you State Secretary for the response from which it was read very clearly that entrepreneurs do not have the same conditions in all units of local self-government, based on the development index. The word of an underdeveloped unit of local self-government or the word "undeveloped" would be helpful to those who need real help and absolutely need to be supported. And on behalf of our club, we support it. However, the word "developed" I would say to those who could do more. So, if I have noticed correctly in the material, it is said that the HDZ Club and the IDS Club are also on track for this topic that the units of local self-government, i.e. entrepreneurs in the indexation area, which are also included in the category of more developed, are also able to further develop, have equal conditions. So my particular question is: “Can we really maintain the attitude that is set out in the law today, or will we allow those who can create and contribute more in the community to do so, in the community at local level, in the wider social community, at the state level. I think it's the right attitude, and what I know is the laws are being passed here. And I expect us to keep insisting on it, because it's a good amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69308	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69309	I can agree in part with you and normally that we must not stop developed areas and that specific and certain measures and I think that the Ministry of Economy is thinking about it and that it has not ignored under the quotes of the developed landscape. But normally, to always see that it may be easier for them to gain a certain investment, a certain investment, but we have to put an emphasis on both sides. Every investment was important in a developed or undeveloped area. Such a law can be read that it may go hand in hand after this indexation by the Ministry of Regional Development under allegations of undeveloped landscapes, but perhaps it is a role in the beginning. Because somehow I always think these developed ones will take care of themselves, but I think definitely the Ministry of Economy has incentive measures for that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69310	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative of the Goddess Makar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69311	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here in the second reading, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act. We discussed much in the first reading, and I was convinced that some of our remarks would be accepted and incorporated into the second reading. But as far as I can tell, there are no changes. We welcome many things and generally agree with most of them. It is so good to have special concerns about entrepreneurs belonging to the micro category, so they are allowed to buy long-term assets, i.e. machines up to 5 years old, so that they can hire these three workers over three years not in the first year but. That certain benefits and benefits for the IT industry are in line with EU legislation. However, we have one problem in this law. Namely, the HNS Club doubtes whether it can support a law like this. We consider it well imagined but if this were removed in Article 9 nothing but a few words, which are – which are according to the degree of development classified in assisted areas according to the regulations governing assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia. We certainly support the activation of inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. That's what we discussed, that's what we support, we all know what problems we find in our places, cities, municipalities, and how many abandoned buildings there are, how many of these abandoned properties. But do we really believe that an entrepreneur who works in a certain city and close to himself and his production facilities will now have abandoned state-owned buildings going about 100, 200, 300 km away to some assisted unit of local self-government and opening up a business there? Well, he primarily finds it interesting to expand, hire people, cut his expenses and start working close by. Isn't that the goal of all of us, to put all of our assets in office? And it will be faster and fairer because we must give all and our entrepreneurs equal chances. Is it okay to discriminate against them that way? We at the HNS Club think it's a restriction of freedom and simply not given to all our entrepreneurs. For example, Article 9 fine writes – Inactive assets within the meaning of this law, i.e. land or buildings, real estate, owned by the Republic of Croatia from the portfolio of the Ministry of State Property Management are property owned by the Republic of Croatia and are located in the area of units of regional self-government or local self-government. And now if there were no such thing as I have already cited which according to the degree of development of the type of assisted area, which is not in function and where no economic activity or other activities are relevant to the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional self-government, where that inactive property is located. So, we have a big dilemma as to whether we can support this law. Because we think all of this is a very good solution. We believe that if we want to place this inactive asset in a position to approve it, it is an investment in the long-term assets of the user that should be invested against at least every 3 million euros, subject to the creation of 15 new jobs related to the investment project within 3 years of the start of the investment. It is good that after 10 years of the start of the investment there is a possibility of selling that property. I don't know why, everything is really well imagined and it would be well received in our public especially by entrepreneurs. Today we spend all day talking about how to help entrepreneurs. Do we really think that only from the outside will some entrepreneurs come and now they'll be looking for Croatia where we have such properties? Well, they won't, first of all, our people are investing in this house. So we should also take care of our entrepreneurs. And we talked about when the outside comes which are all the criteria that this is not the only criterion. We may still have one dilemma there, which is what is considered to be an investment, i.e., we have the support user in paragraph 4. during the period of realization of the investment project referred to in paragraph 2 of this article - it is obliged to invest directly in the property in inactive property that is leased without compensation of at least 50% of the estimated value of the inactive property. And that does not include the calculation of the value of the input equipment that represents the investment. There may be somewhere we should define whether it is considered to be equipment according to international accounting standards whether it is considered according to the construction terminology that belongs here because we know that they have another way of expressing it and so on. Most of the time, I can't say that the HNS Club will support this law, although we think it's extremely good, to help our entrepreneurs a lot, that all of these other things are good that Article 9 doesn't have these few words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69312	Thank you. The Republic was requested by a respected representative, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69313	Thank you. Dear fellow Macar, first of all, I thank you for this debate because you have actually spoken in a much more plastic way about what I have expressed as a proposal that should be corrected and improved in this law. What I'm reading right now is that I'm conceptually speaking in the context of the government. We have recently discussed the Law on State Property, today on this second law, do not take into account the causal consequences that are intended to reflect on entrepreneurs where you have made it very clear that freedoms are being restricted. From my point of view of state policy in the context of supporting those who need help is correct and there no one is doubting and there is no one expressing dissatisfaction that those who need help get help. However, the conceptual state policy prevents those environments that can create even more added value to go forward is a false policy. I have often said in my discussions that as a small country, we need to run much, much faster to be generally competitive on the market and that is why I have mentioned and used the term conceptually. I don't see a concept between the ministries that there is one coordination where certain provisions of the law will connect and give a positive effect. So I congratulate you on your position and I believe that through the amendment we can all take advantage of this because we want good for Croatia and so be it accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69314	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69315	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Thank you for mentioning that there's no one against those who don't want to help those who need help. And anyway, I'm for it too, and my club is for it because we need to help catch up with the others. But at this point, is that the right way? We personally consider it not. There are other ways to help these units of local self-government, or those entrepreneurs who want to invest in that part. But here it is primarily about the freedom of all entrepreneurs and that everyone is in an equal position and that we give wind to everyone, and that will only contribute to the better development of all our units and the whole state, and normally and then to the better lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69316	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69317	Dear colleagues, Makar, listening to your opening debate, I thought of that one folk proverb, “don’t give him fish, but learn how to fish, and he’ll get rich himself. ” I think I'm in my town as a young mayor in our own time when we've introduced a lot of social places since then, let's call them social ones, because we've been helping them all along with baskets, and with free kindergartens, and today many families are using it. They didn't bother to move on. Why am I saying that? You mentioned a collapsed building in a developed area and underdeveloped. What is the difference between a collapsed building in Zagreb or a collapsed building somewhere in Požega or somewhere in Lika? It's the same. But there is a big difference if we put this ruined building in Zagreb into operation and not that of our Zagreban or the young man from Slavonia to Ireland, some collapsed building that has been put into operation, but remains to work here. What am I saying? All the time if you've been following my debates not only during the term of office when I'm talking about this unfair development index, let's not stop those who can. Let us not invent criteria for those who are successful in stopping them by helping the failures to call it that rather than creating new values for them. So, if we go to think properly, everyone will be deployed throughout Croatia and successful and those who are less developed, those who develop more strongly Rovinj, Bakar, Rijeka, Zagreb will be able to help Lici, and Slavonia, and Dalmatia Zagora and underdeveloped areas because it is of interest to all of us. So, if we are allowed to attract funds, and we are not allowed to use criteria on me, let's say because of the 121% development index, we were unable to run any European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69318	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69319	Thank you very much. Well, my dear colleague, I could only say, thank you for continuing my debate and what you have further potentiated, which is that if there is really a demolition building in any place and whether in the local self-government unit that belongs to the aided or the one that belongs to the developed if it is put into office it is good for the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69320	And now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Boris Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69321	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. I won't have a long presentation on the subject of this law. I think that during the debate today, a lot of this topic has been exhausted even though this law has not been discussed much, a lot has been discussed about the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure where this law is actually bound to this law. And I'm going to connect those two laws, and I'm going to actually connect another law. I was the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Ms. Martino Dalic's question concerning an inactive issue to the currentist where I praised this law, or its intention, in particular the introduction of a new support measure relating to the activation of economic inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia, in areas which are therefore assisted, which are therefore owned by the Republic of Croatia and in the portfolio of the Ministry of State Property, which is the Ministry of State Property. I think anyone who passes such areas and lives in those areas knows how valuable every job is. I personally know a lot of such areas. I know a lot of economic facilities that have been abandoned for a long time, and basically where the chiefs are trying to attract an investor in every way possible, an investor thinking so let the circus come and just let something happen, just to make something spin, just to get a job, just to get life back into his community. The incentive measures provided for in the law will show whether they are good or not. I certainly support and think that the criteria are well done or proposed, and this is an investment of a minimum of EUR 3 million of 15 new jobs and, of course, a ten-year lease, with the possibility that the investor is really sticking to the agreement of the one who made the deal with the state to enable him to buy it. I don't think anyone should mind. But when we associate it unfortunately with the previous law and look at the statistics that Croatia has about 450 active business zones of 1300, we already have a large number of entrepreneurial zones that are also staring empty, and most of them are not actually active. The State Audit also recommended a few years ago that the purpose of these entrepreneurship zones be more clearly determined, to arrange this mess. Because most of the zone actually doesn't even meet that condition about communal equipment. We started a few years ago and the Investment Agency was supposed to be involved in it, but unfortunately, we didn't achieve the results. It was only that certain entrepreneurship zones worked or did dumping one another, lowering the price of infrastructure-equipped land, which is actually not good and consciously and responsibly operating most of these entrepreneurship zones. But it's basically a ruthless fight for every investor, for every job. For both municipalities, or units, and live off that tax that is obtained by investing, i.e. through employees, through wages. What I really wanted here to point out despite the commendation of this measure, I see that many MPs are pushing for this measure to be extended to all of Croatia, that it is not for the areas that are supported. I'm kind of expressing my caution precisely because of this large number of inactive entrepreneurial zones, so it might be good, so I'm not against it, but maybe we should see how this measure will live in practice, whether investors who will actually invest in these assisted areas are being drawn up by the measures proposed in this law will actually appear. What I'd really like to say is this. So I associate this law with the Law on State Property Management, which was in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, which therefore provides for the possibility that the property that is entered in the Republic of Croatia, and this property is subject to a succession, yes, therefore to investors in the lease. Therefore, this is not about the property to be sold, or where it would be possible for that property to change the owner. The proposer went with the logic that now there is no legal opportunity to dispose of the property at all, but this law would, therefore, open the possibility of the State Property Management Act being leased. However, I am somehow afraid that this law makes an investor who wants to invest in such an asset, which is located in assisted areas, can be mistaken. So, you can actually hope or expect, have justifiable legitimate expectations that by investing you could at some point become the owner. Therefore, it should certainly be clear here that this property, therefore, cannot be subject to these incentive measures because it is clearly seen that if the investor respects the agreement and contract he has concluded with the State, he can become the owner of the land. While I say the economically inactive property that is subject to a succession under the Law on State Property Management can only be leased for days only. What I was looking for, therefore, for the Minister's question, which I was actually warning in the first reading of the State Property Management Act to really clarify and distinguish that a potential investor would not be mistaken that the property subject to a succession could not be subject to the incentive measures provided for by this law because here he can acquire property, while according to the Law on State Property Management can only be leased. Of course investment should be welcomed, investments are never enough. And then when we have a good investment growth and we can boast of some measures every job is welcome. I would particularly welcome this measure in relation to PPDS because we are in such a situation that in these areas we actually have to, or the state, have to pay people to live in these areas, or to stay in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69322	Thank you. We've got some replicas on you, too, on your exposure. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69323	Dear fellow Milosevic, it is good that you have considered such measures to be extended to all of Croatia, but you have expressed skepticism. And now I'm asking what happens to assisted areas if these measures go to developed areas. So the assisted areas don't lose anything at all, everything remains the same as they have now. But what makes different thinking possible? Different thinking enables those who are successful, who are developing, to be even more developed because they also provide more resources to further help assisted areas. If we are going to think about how to develop everything, I think that much better thinking would be, and revolutionaryly if the question were to be asked why, for example, the highway seat could not be somewhere in Delnice, why must it be here in Zagreb or Croatian waters in Slavonia? Or why wouldn't the Ministry of Seas be in River? Or something Ministry of Tourism somewhere that we're well connected anyway, and we're not too big to be like that. But it's too revolutionary. But it is not revolutionary if the criteria for obtaining these funds and such conditions would also enable those who are successful and developed. Because their own stronger development allows for the generation of something more and the creation of new values that alone will fill the state budget to a greater extent, develop an economy. It's far better that this young man of ours we're talking about, from Slavnia down there, lives and stays in Osijek or Gospić than to sit on a plane and travel to Ireland. So that's how we start to think, because we can't develop something that's simply in itself at this point is not an interesting market. But we can create preconditions if in the long run we see that over the next ten years and that part of Croatia develops.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69324	Thank you. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69325	Dear Representative Klaric, you are talking, therefore, about this measure, or you are proposing that it be extended to the entire Republic of Croatia and that the benefits from such a solution will have secure and assisted areas. I can agree with you, and I am sure that if you continue to develop unevenly and increase the unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia in some areas so that those areas that have been developed certainly draw and help those areas that are less developed or less developed. And you certainly say that as a conscientious representative and as a good mayor of course fighting for your place, for your end and I absolutely respect and understand it. For why did I express my skepticism? I've expressed my skepticism because in the bill of law, we now have a uniformly elaborated measure for assisted areas. Perhaps that the proposal also proposed enlargement, therefore, to the entire Republic of Croatia but that, in some measures in some nuances, it gave priority to the assisted areas because also assisted areas still today have some measures, a relief that did not make those areas sufficiently attractive to investors. Perhaps the promoter could have worked out a measure for the entire Republic of Croatia, but some nuances still give priority to the assisted areas that when the investor is valid whether to come to you or not to know in some place in Lika, say, ah, this shade now suits me to go to Lika or to say it is not such an advantage I will get a boost and in the area of Bakar so I am going to invest in Bakar. In any case, we will see for the future how this measure will develop, but we should think about extending it to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69326	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69327	Thank you. Dear fellow Milosevic, I followed with the attention of your debate right at the time of the first reading, I followed your debate carefully during the second reading, and you, both during the first and second readings, expressed restraint in the context of giving everyone equal opportunities. So I'd like to ask you a question next. As far as state property is concerned, the result of more than two decades is that we have hectares and hectares of abandoned unprocessed agricultural land, state-owned land, such as ledins, squares and squares of abandoned buildings, squares and squares of buildings that are in good condition, we have enormous unused property. If we take today's stand of restraint as you think, a stimulant that happens after 27 years and sits in these benches, what is and to what extent is this acceptance of the bill of things going to change for the better and to what extent? I will repeat my position, we as Croatia using our geostrategic position of our natural resources must run much faster than others to be competitive on the market. Let's not penalize, limit entrepreneurs. We restrict freedom, which is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We're MPs, so I'm surprised by your stance on abstention. I'm asking for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69328	The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69329	Dear fellow MP, I can repeat my views I have made in the debate on the Law on State Property Management and on this debate today. With 99% of your exposure, I can agree with you. You yourself know best in your city which property is valuable and inactive, where the country has actually proved to be a bad master and where you could, therefore, where local authorities could react better and faster than the state in terms of investment. I've expressed restraint only in two things. I first explained to my colleague Klaric earlier, so I support the measures to encourage investment in PPDS, and I have expressed my skepticism outside the area, therefore, of assisted areas. Why? It's just that there's still some advantage in these areas. Perhaps, as I said, the promoter missed this measure to work out for the entire Republic of Croatia but that in some nuances these areas are still more attractive in the reliefs and incentives of the investor. So perhaps the investor who will invest in these areas gets a little more money than in these developed areas. The second skeptic I've expressed is the property subject to a succession. Because as I say, the Law on State Property Management says that this property will be leased for a long time and that it cannot be the subject of purchase or transfer of ownership rights while this measure speaks of the possibility of purchase and transfer of ownership. That seems kind of collapsing to me. So the investor can come in and expect to become the owner, and he can't become the owner. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69330	Thank you. The next debate will be an individual debate, respected representatives of Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69331	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here I am going to look back on what we have today, after 27 full years, so it's tragic that we have areas on either the islands, on the coast, on Dalmatia or in Lika, and probably everywhere else, that these are mostly military facilities that are abandoned and spaces that are not put into operation. And even what I have in my city here is only now being solved are some areas and objects that are so devastated in the city center. It should indeed and should happen with this law to speed up all these procedures, to enable investors to invest and that these procedures really happen within as short a time as possible, regardless of certain difficulties. This law, this amendment and the addition of the law, is aimed at extending this part of the support, and is then extended to support the infrastructure of ports, airports, for the culture of the preservation of heritage, support for sport and multi-purpose recreational infrastructure and regional operational support programmes for the outermost regions and the like. So it's very good to expand the scope of activity, and in this way we can actually do more and allow for better development. It is also good that with this really this possibility of this inactive property that is owned by the Republic of Croatia will be economically activated, and what has been one way to limit the supply of equipment so far, here in these changes the equipment that is being purchased does not necessarily need to be new equipment that is allowed here for these new changes to be up to five years old. So both IT machines and equipment can also serve and encourage the development of the ICT sector and such investments to create new jobs, especially since in these changes it is a minimum investment of 50,000 euros, so it has been reduced in such a way, but under the conditions of opening ten jobs, while it has been 150 thousand so far, and we know that it has been impossible for some people from that dam to reach legal persons or physically impossible to reach. This enables the ICT sector to decrease and reduce the profit tax over a period of ten years and 25 to 50% of the tax. If we want this inactive state property to be activated as much as possible by this law, it is actually possible, within three years, to invest at least three million euros, thus becoming a possibility for this property to be used for free of charge for ten years, with the condition that it could then buy that property and that it could prove that it would increase or increase the value of that property by 50%. According to the available data we have so far, about 590 projects reported are around 30 billion kuna, and that would be an increase of about 17,000 jobs, of which more than 13 billion relate to large entrepreneurs, and 16.5 billion to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so we think that if this and this way brings about changing the law itself to significantly improve the picture of how employees, and also to invest and encourage an investment initiative, which I certainly welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69332	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peric, you have once again explained to us all what these amendments and amendments of the law are achieved, but again I will say that Article 9 states that it refers only to the property managed by the Ministry of State Property. I think the ministry has forgotten all that property owned by other legal entities, owned by a state founder, for example. I'll tell HEP and similar companies as the institution. You have examples where the factory halls due to the non-payment of the owner to pension insurance, belong to the property of the Pension Insurance Office, i.e. The Department of Labour. These assets are not taken into account, and they are also state-owned assets that are not in office, so the ministry should. the State Secretary and those types of assets shall be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69334	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69335	Thank you, colleague Demetlika. You're right, so in the very description of when we had and should look at it in the context of the State Property Management Act, because in the very description and the scope of which only the Ministry manages, it must certainly be defined much better in order not to come into collage with this. The assumption here is that it is likely that only the Ministry of State Property will act in a uniform manner regardless of the property, but in any case it must be specified through another reading, or amendment and which we have warned here and fellow Shucker in the debate itself of this law, and then it can be applied adequately to this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69336	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69337	First is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 218. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 81 for and 1 abstention, we have decided to hold the debate, so I would now ask the representative of the renowned Marija Antonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts to explain the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69338	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. It is therefore a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments that has passed the first reading. Finally, the bill made certain differences as a result of respecting the views expressed in the debate and on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament during the first reading. The proposal for a Legislative Committee has been adopted in order to define the text more precisely in Article 13 of the Law proposal in a nomotechnical sense. On 1 February 2018, a debate was held in the Assembly on the final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, where the IDS, PGS and RI Club submitted an amendment to the final draft law which proposed that the provisions of Article 9 apply to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and not only to the assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia, and that, in the sense of inactive assets within the meaning of the Law, not only the property owned by the Republic of Croatia in the portfolio of the Ministry of State Property Management, but also inactive assets of other state institutions and legal persons whose founder and majority owner of the Republic of Croatia were included. Following certain talks with the Ministry of State Assets and agreeing positions on the definition of these provisions of the articles, a proposal for an amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which rejects the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, PGS and RI, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes an amendment in line with the clearness of the competent Ministry of State Property in a manner that the amended provisions of the Article are amended. 9, so that it reads as follows: Inactive assets within the meaning of this Act constitute land and/or buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia managed by the Ministry of State Property Management, which is not in office and on which no economic activity is carried out. Paragraph 3 is amended and reads: The beneficiary of the support which implements the investment project referred to in Article 2 of this article in the areas of local self-government units An article is added. 4. where the total amount of support under this Act, including support for economic... [[Invader Jandroković: Col. Antonić, time is up, I ask you to finish quickly]] Inactive assets owned by the Republic of Croatia shall respect maximum permitted intensity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And paragraphs 4 to 9 are changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69339	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment to the government. If no one answers, I'll close the debate and put the amendments to the government to vote. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 79 votes for this amendment, he has received support and becomes an integral part of the Law, so now we move to a decision on the amendment submitted by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club. I think the Prime Minister has already explained the position, so I ask my colleague Demetlik to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69340	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. We at the IDS, PGS and LRI have submitted this amendment precisely with the aim of creating legal assumptions for the activation of unused state property throughout the Republic of Croatia and for all interested investors under the same conditions. We consider it illegal to create inequality between individual areas of the Republic of Croatia. So, I'm going to say, in part by accepting our amendment, one conditional option is actually given for entrepreneurs in local self-government units that belong to the 5-8th group's development index, which refers to 252 units relative to 304 units that are low-level development and again puts it in some kind of irregular position. We continue to hold that the possibility of putting into office of unused state property should not depend on the index of urban development and municipalities, as it is needlessly limiting those more developed. Such a solution has been proposed as many as 3 rounds of public tender for the sale of inactive assets not only to unnecessarily delay the whole process but to ask a simple question. Why did you determine the 9 laps? Is it not our goal to put this state property into operation as quickly and efficiently as possible? I must say, this Law also leaves out a solution to property that is not in the Department of State Property Management's jurisdiction. I stress that it's again state property and in what way and when we're going to solve it to put it into function. I don't want to be a sad owl, but I'm afraid, unfortunately, this bill will also be another failed attempt to put into function unused state property. We accept this amendment, but I stress that we will surely look for a report on the success of the implementation of this Act [[Intruder Jandroković: colleague Demetlika, time is up.]] I'm not asking for a vote. [[Intruder Jandrokovic: So you're not looking for a vote?]] We accept. But we'll look for a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69341	Thank you very much. Then we move on to the vote on the final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the promotion of investment. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69342	We're moving on to the next point. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Dr. Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69343	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here is today the Act on compulsory health insurance and health care of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, which contains certain provisions governing the first mandatory health insurance of foreigners with approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, then compulsory health insurance of foreigners who have an approved temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, and the health care of foreigners who are not subject to compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Croatia, and the costs of their healthcare are borne by them. The law also contains provisions relating to specific groups consisting of foreigners, nationals of third countries in the Republic of Croatia who are provided with health care funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which are foreigners who find themselves illegally in Croatia, who apply for asylum approval or subsidiary protection, for example persons under international protection, and those who have been granted international protection to either asylum seekers, or foreigners under subsidiary protection. This is about categories of foreigners most of whom belong to those vulnerable groups such as children, pregnant women, disabled people, unaccompanied children and the like. The proposed final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has made full compliance with the EU acquis. A category of foreigners, children and foreigners has been introduced, adults who are victims of trafficking in people whose healthcare funds are provided in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Health. In addition, the parties who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia are more precisely defined and are ultimately compliant with the Law on International and Temporary Protection. This law also establishes a framework for the adoption of sub-legislative rules to ensure continued and accessible health care for applicants of international protection, asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection, and members of their families as well as a child without escort. And finally a few words about a very important element of this law, and these are the means to implement the laws on amendments and amendments to the law. They are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 with projections for 2019 and 20th year, in division 096 of Chapter V. It is about the Ministry of Health on the activities of the health care of foreigners or compensation to citizens and the public on the basis of insurance and other compensation, amounting to a million and 500 000 kuna. The subject-law also needs to provide additional resources in the amount of exactly 773340 kuna for additional 100 persons who are under international protection based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to relocate and relocate third-country nationals and stateless persons who meet the conditions for the approval of international protection, which will be ensured by redistributing the resources of the Ministry of Health from the project to restore old equipment to the health care of foreigners. Here's so much in relatively short prome, and we finally got two amendments that fall within the domain of nomotechnical corrections, and we absolutely accept them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69344	Thank you. Although, for a while, you have two replicas. She is one of the respected representatives of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State also spoke of the means to ensure the implementation of this law. Part of the resources should always be provided under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I am interested in what are the assessments that this year will need to set aside for healthcare and to pay the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and how much funding is provided in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69346	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69347	So far, a million-and-a-half kuna has been secured as I have said these 773 thousand kunas for these 100 people who will be transported to the Republic of Croatia under international contracts. Clearly, this section relating to HZZO is difficult for me to say, and we will see at the end of the year how much this will all be because some certain precise indicators at this point are hard to get and it is difficult to plan in our national budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69348	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69349	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Since I was part of a part of my participation in this Mandatory Health Insurance and Health Protection Act, you discussed international protection seekers in your presentation, you told foreigners under subsidiary protection, but you should say and mention underage children who find themselves in the Republic without parental care because this law applies to them too. In fact, it should be remembered maybe a year and a half or two ago when over the Factory or our eastern borders in the Republic of Croatia nearly entered about 670 thousand foreigners, today the Republic of Croatia is obliged to receive around 1563 persons from third countries. I don't know how many numbers have happened so far and how many people received, it might be good if you know that information, but it should also be said that health care is enjoyed by all unlike some other countries where these foreigners who have very big problems are precisely related to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69350	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69351	Thank you very much. But I'd just say that I also mentioned kids without escorts in the categories of strangers who belong to the so-called. A vulnerable group, so I did mention it because that's what it says. Our law is one of the most I would say the solidarity that exists at this time in the EU, and this is in line with our general solidarity commitment to providing health services in the Republic of Croatia. Some accurate estimates of how many there are, it is difficult to give because they are very dynamic, they change from day to day, but now we know where we have our asylum seekers located in which institutions, and we know about how many there are in Porin, how many there are in some other institutions outside of Zagreb, but for now this is not some problem in terms of achieving their rights from the health care domain because they have it practically, we see it by the accounts that we get every day in the Ministry of Health and certainly well organized and in one complete complete completeness and opportunity to provide and obtain health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69352	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA MP Branimir Bunjac will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69353	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on compulsory health insurance and health care for foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to highlight only some details of this law here for the sake of the public, and that's the first thing that's considered a stranger to this law. Foreigners are considered exclusively non-EU citizens in this law. So EU citizens actually already have these rights and Croatia is in some way considered not a state but part of the EU. I would also like to say that I attended a debate in Brussels where they kept talking about the Croatian border on the EU's eastern border, so that term was very little used by Croatia and I would like it to be known. So in a certain way, we have formally, but in substance, lost our sovereignty. Of course, that is the consequence of EU accession, but it is not a topic now. Secondly, I would like to say that this law gives asylum seekers, refugees and other people who come to Croatia the right to compulsory health insurance, that something will cost the Croatian budget several million kunas. However, this is not the only obligation that the Republic of Croatia has made, but Croatia has made an obligation to give such people housing and ultimately to hire such people. I think it is currently a quota of 1600 people that Croatia must assume, meaning that they did not come to Croatia voluntarily in some way, but were subordinated to come to Croatia. This, of course, irritates Croatian citizens in the sense that we have our problems already and so much, that we have tens of thousands of homeless, that we have 200 thousand unemployed, that we have people with us who can't achieve health insurance, and now, by EU order, we have to give it to people who are coming to Croatia. To be honest, I have no objection to those people who came to Croatia for life and tragedy, but I would like to highlight the need to prevent such cases, and prevention will be best carried out if Croatia is working to calm the situation in Asia and Africa, rather than the conflict of war. Namely, it is known that Croatian weapons are leaving for Saudi Arabia, via Saudi Arabia leaving for Yemen, via Saudi Arabia leaving for Syria, that Croatian soldiers are leaving for Afghanistan, that Croatian money is being financed by military and police forces in Afghanistan, means not only Croatian soldiers but also theirs, that our soldiers must go to the Russian border, that our soldiers must participate in missions in Somalia, that our policy has supported the cause of conflict in Libya and elsewhere, and that all this is actually the main reason why there has been a rise in the number of refugees and asylum seekers that are here now, as we see, there is more and more in Croatia. I just want to point out to the public that 5 million refugees are coming from Syria, that 3 million refugees are coming from Afghanistan, from Somalia 1 million, from Sudan more than 1 million. A huge number of refugees come from Libya, so there are about a dozen million people who all want to enter the area of Europe, who have been detained for now at least temporarily in some other countries, but that the tendency is that in the future we will have even more, so we need to allocate funds for all of these purposes that I have listed for the time being. So, I am for help, but I repeat again, these are fire measures. We should act preventively, and preventably we will best achieve the effect if we are, therefore, committed to peace in these areas that I have now listed, and not if we put our resources in place and lead a policy that is aimed at protecting imperial objectives, above all, because of the acquisition of natural resources such as oil, gas and others. That's it. So the Living Wall Club will support this law, but we want to warn about those dimensions that are not sufficiently highlighted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69354	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Bunjac, we've already had a lot of debates and replicas on various subjects, but I'd really like to ask you, here I am begging you to read once the materials you're talking about. So you said here that this law gives the asylum person the right to equal health care as it does to insurance people in compulsory health insurance. That's not true. So, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to an existing law that guarantees it to asylum seekers. So the existing law, and this law doesn't change that law. What you may be after is the concept of asylum seekers and individuals seeking international protection, which includes seeking asylum and seeking subsidiary protection. Yes, some of these people are expanding the rights they have so far in the sense that, apart from the emergency, they have the right to emergency legal protection and to over-needed health care, which is a little wider. But this does not mean that the persons they are looking for, means that they have not yet received, which are in the process of deciding whether or not they will be approved, whether or not they are persecuted or not, means they are entitled to an emergency and excessively necessary one. And asylum seekers, those who have already received asylum, who have been found to be needed, that they have been persecuted, etc. They already have that right under the existing law and it doesn't change here. The second thing you mention about the citizens of the European Union is that I will say more about it in my debate, because it is about the right to treat abroad on the burden of their own health insurance that Croatian citizens also have in other countries. Let's just say this is done through the European Health Insurance Card you've probably heard about. So if, say, a Croatian citizen in Germany breaks a leg or something like that, he has the right to need medical care as if he was insured in Germany by HZZO. And of course vice versa, also German citizens, Austrian etc. have the same right in Croatia. And that is what is regulated by this law, and that is why the law is called upon to European regulations and it is quite clear and I see nothing problematic here. But I think that some of these things need to be further explained to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69356	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69357	Thank you very much, Reverend Falcone. Well, I don't know where you got the idea of me not reading the laws. You have just confirmed yourself that I am reading them, because of course we should have defined the concepts and I am glad that we have defined these concepts now, that we have clearly separated that they are one citizen of the European Union and that they are other foreigners. It may be clear to you here when you read or have been doing this for a long time, but the average Croatian citizen who is watching the transfer of this session may not be clear and it is useful to explain it to him. And as far as you're concerned, what you're saying is that it doesn't really cost any of the Croatian citizens anything. Well, it's worth it. Here you see right here in this law it says that we have to allocate extra funds from the budget, so we have to allocate funds. And it certainly costs, and you also didn't respond to that claim I made, which is whether or not we have to allocate funds for housing and whether we have to ultimately allocate funds for employment. And how simple that sounds now. I understand that people have problems, but it's some kind of Croatian citizen who I don't know is homeless or who doesn't have a job it sounds simple to him as something amazing. So basically that's what you need to say, to allocate budgets. And how does this problem solve? Surely we will not solve this problem by simply giving money, but I say we should solve it as preventively as any other problem. This tall home and government only solve problems when they appear. They do not think before the problem arises, and if we had thought before, we could still influence 2011 and 2012 to avoid this problem, and then we would have greater moral authority and political will that we might not have to make laws like we have to now, so according to EU directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69358	The next club is the HDZ representative on behalf of whom the respected representative Vlatko Kopic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69359	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As we have heard, there is a second reading of the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. The basic provisions governing this law are to regulate the issue of health protection of citizens, EU Member States which have been granted temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, which has evidence of private health insurance in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the rights of citizens of the Union and members of their families to free movement and residence in the territory of a Member State. The relevant law is fully in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 13 December 2011 on standards for the qualification of third-country nationals or stateless persons for the achievement of international protection for the unique status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection, and the content of the protection granted is within the scope of health care. Furthermore, the proposed law seeks to remove certain shortcomings identified during its examples, the terminology of compliance with national legislation, as well as full compliance with EU rules. The law also contains provisions relating to specific groups which form a page, i.e. nationals of third countries in the Republic of Croatia, whose healthcare funds are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, which are foreigners, who find themselves illegally in the territory of our country, foreigners who apply for asylum or subsidiary protection, i.e. persons under international protection and ultimately, to foreigners who are of course granted international protection. Azilants and foreigners, meaning under subsidized protection. Therefore, it is the categories of foreigners most of whom are the people in previous groups, i.e. children, pregnant women, persons with disabilities, and as children without escorts are said. The proposed final proposal for the laws amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has led to full compliance with the legal acquis of the EU, a category of foreigners, children and foreigners of victims of human trafficking, who are otherwise insured in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Health. It is also more precise that foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia and this law is compliant with the Law on International and Temporary Protection. A legislative framework for the adoption of sublegislative regulations is also established to ensure continued and accessible health care for applicants of international protection, asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection and members of their families, as well as a child without escort. As is said, the funds for the implementation of this law are secured by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, for 2018, by projection for 2019 and 2020. From all of this above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69360	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69361	Dear fellow Members, I agree that this law is necessary and that it is a matter of harmonisation with European directives. However, here, he would point to one problem, which I think was not good communication, perhaps among the ministries, the interior ministry and the ministry of resolution. And it's about the number of people this applies to. This is about that financial part of the bill that this is going to cost us with a million and a half kuna already foreseen in the budget, another 773000 kuna, and it's about 100 people. And what I've been doing and I've seen a little bit, so it's a much larger number. So I'm afraid this number isn't final. Especially here, we need to think about the context of the future. I already spoke the other day, here I will repeat today, it is a potential very large migration wave coming to Croatia, so that all these categories of people we already have here, we will be looking for international protection, asylum seekers, foreigners, under subsidiary protection, we will have many, many more. By still having that danger, we have the return of asylum seekers from Western European countries, and we still have unscheduled migrants on those quotas that the EU has said we will get. So my estimate is that this figure may soon be without a new wave of migrants, one 10-15 times larger. And I don't think that's what's been taken care of and that should have been predicted, so that's, well, just one of my comments on the law for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69362	The reply will be given to the replica by the respected representative Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69363	Dear fellow, I'm glad you noticed that there may be something about what's planned and what might happen, but here, when adopting any legal basis, you need to have a certain projection. It's a projection, of course, that during the year, if there is any need for any condition that you're talking about, there will be a need to do the same level and certain means to be taken, I'm sure from the emergency situation. However, no matter what, the Ministry must have a certain projection, of course it must not go against any major financial resources that can naturally harm the functioning itself. Whether, but here, the important thing is, to begin with, there's a good will and intent and according to this mere harmonisation, that there's, of course, certain means that have to be planned for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69364	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69365	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support this Foreign Health Protection Act, as we believe it is. It is a quality solution to the problem of foreign health that has not been adequately addressed so far. I'll point to just a few topics that we've mentioned during our first reading and we haven't received any answers in the meantime. And I refer again to this subject, which will be particularly important in the adoption of sublegal acts in the part of the health care of foreigners. So, we pointed to an art. 4. which discusses issues of private health insurance, where we have expressed concern, that some part of the translation has been lost to travel and private health insurance. The issue of temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated so far that, regardless of whether you had health insurance in your country of origin, for longer stays, the residence should be registered, then the residence of the Ministry of Finance is reported and payments for payment of HZZO health insurance sheets are started. With this proposal and amendments, it moves, and in this way, we believe that this will lead to implementation problems. We also believe that a part of foreigners who are staying in the Republic of Croatia, given their incomes, would have to pay more than 278 kuna, because in this way they are brought into a more favourable position and in some ways it is not fair to Croatian citizens than foreigners who are temporarily staying in the Republic of Croatia, so we ask that this be resolved in a more quality way through sublaw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69366	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think I might be able to explain in part what this is all about. So this is about the implementation of Directive 2004/38 on the right of citizens of the European Union to travel and stay. This Directive, in the part which regulates the right to stay in another Member State for a period of more than 3 months, determines that it is necessary for that person not to be burdened by the social system of the country in which he is coming, means that he is working, etc. And to have what's in the English version... It means comprehensive health insurance. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Now, different countries interpret it in different ways. So in some, it's enough to have basic, basic compulsory health insurance as you want to call it, and other countries require that private security be removed, like the United Kingdom. Now, as far as I'm reading this bill here, the possibility remains that if someone hasn't used that right to compulsory health insurance, paid minimum contributions, etc. that it can still exercise its rights even if it takes out comprehensive private security. So I think, and as far as I understand what this says, it doesn't rule out the other. So it's actually an additional option that is actually made available in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69368	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69369	Thank you very much, Mr. Falcon, but I would still like the secretary of state to answer. I know Mr. Sokol was a State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, but it's still common for a secretary of state to answer questions, in this case from the Ministry of Health, not a representative who has nothing to do with the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69370	But you sent the line to the representative. Therefore, your representative replied. When you ask the Secretary of State, he'll probably answer you. Okay. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first respected representative, Tomislav Sokol, has appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I wasn't the secretary of state, I was the assistant minister. That's one thing. And secondly, I felt compelled to say something about this subject because my doctorate was just entitled to cross-border health care so that I knew something about it. And I wrote an article just on the question of this condition in the directive and how different states interpret it in a different way. But just like this. I'd like to, so I'd focus on just trying to explain for some of the discussions that were three aspects of this law. So the first part is about EU citizens. It means, as we have already explained, European regulations governing the right to cross-border health care. These are coordination regulations 883/2004 and Directive 2011/24 on cross-border healthcare. These European regulations give EU citizens the right to health care in other Member States in three situations. So the first situation is when they have a place of residence in another Member State and then they have the right to, so they are still insured in their Member State in certain situations and then, let's say, if they are retired and then they have the right to cover by their health insurance. Another case is the issue of temporary stay in another Member State, for example if you are a student and the like, and in this case you are entitled to the European Health Insurance Card in that other country. And also, of course, means citizens of other EU countries when they come to Croatia. In this situation they must be treated as being insured in Croatia, and their cost covers their health insurance in the country from which they come. And that's why this law is formulated in this way, they are subject to these special rules. And the third case is referring to treatment abroad, so these are the cases where sometimes health care is not available in the country where the person lives. It may then be referred to another Member State under certain conditions. So if you can't provide adequate healthcare in time in the country from which that person comes. And then that person must also be treated in the state of treatment as if it were secured there by the cost of it being borne by her health insurance. And of course that rule applies to Croatian citizens in other EU Member States, but it also applies to EU citizens in Croatia. Like tourists, students, etc. their right is regulated in a way that they have the same treatment rights as they are secured in Croatia, participations and the like must pay. But those costs are then borne by health insurance in another country. Until, on the other hand, people who are not insured do not belong to, are not EU citizens and are not covered by bilateral social insurance contracts that again give the right to certain healthcare similar to that provided in the Republic of Croatia. Those persons must then pay for themselves, etc. So that's why these provisions are in this law. So there are no specific rules other than those that apply equally to all EU citizens. Another thing I'd like to point out, which I've already started with Directive 2004/38. So Directive 2004/38/EC provides for three types of stay in another Member State for EU citizens. So the first case is staying up to 3 months, where there are no special conditions. The other type of stay is a permanent stay after 5 years where the rights are then acquired as if practically that person had almost the nationality of that state. And a third temporary stay longer than three months to five years. In such a situation, EU Member States are not obliged to allow a person to stay in their territory for more than 3 months and if that person were to be a burden to their social system. So if that person is not unemployed, there is no means to take care of himself, not a student or anything like that and has no social and no comprehensive health insurance. So this is one of these conditions that EU citizens must meet in order to stay for more than three months in another EU Member State. This provision on comprehensive health insurance, which must be taken out in different countries, is interpreted in different ways. In some countries private insurance must be taken out, and in some countries only mandatory social health insurance is sufficient. Croatia has always made this more favourable variant possible so far, means that it is enough for this person to apply, register with HZZO to pay a minimum contribution and at that time acquires the right to health care, the right to stay in the Republic of Croatia. What's just added here is that if she didn't take out social health insurance, you can satisfy the condition even if she took out her private. So it's an additional option, not a way to make people pay for private health insurance. One thing I'd like to point out is the Foreign Law. So we here have a provision which clearly specifies which types of insurance are involved, but in the Law on Foreigners which regulates the conditions for staying for more than 3 months in the Republic of Croatia for EU citizens, it is mentioned that it only needs to have health insurance, so this way I know that it is not in the health ministry's supervision, it would not be a bad idea to further specify which types of health insurance is involved in order to avoid different interpretations and legal uncertainty. And finally, as far as asylum seekers and seekers of international protection are concerned, I have already explained this to my colleague, Bunjc, who unfortunately does not today, as is generally the case, that side of the Parliament is more or less empty, mostly one of the asylum seekers and the other are asylum seekers, or international protection. International protection seekers, this way I stress the Croatian public, have only the right to urgent or necessary medical care in the Republic of Croatia. So these people who have not yet received asylum, who have not been found to have rights and are truly persecuted by the countries from which they come, do not have the right to the full extent of health care of persons who are insured in Croatia. And that's what's important, and that part I just figured out and the opposite of what my colleague Bunjac has imputed, I never said anywhere that Croatian citizens don't have to pay for it, something has to be paid, but what must be paid from the budget has already been defined by this law. So that law doesn't make any difference in that sense. Because asylum seekers, persons who have received asylum, who have passed the entire system which is determined to be justified in the Republic because they cannot return to their country have until now, by all laws and regulations, been entitled to health insurance with an explicit provision that it is covered by the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So this law changes nothing in that sense. I think it's important that the citizens don't go astray. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69372	Thank you very much. We move on to the next individual debate and she is a respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69373	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm talking about health care, so I'd really feel uncomfortable if you didn't say a few facts that concern me both as a doctor and as a parliamentary representative, which is that Croatian healthcare in this year fell 7 places compared to the last year of availability of quality health care, and all foreigners who will stay in the Republic can be concerned about the quality of care guaranteed to them. According to EUROSTAT data, 15% of Croatian residents estimate their health by being poor as the largest proportion of poor health in some EU country within 25 Member States where the quality of the outcome was measured, with the average of life span as low as 6 years as it is in Italy or Spain. What is particularly worrying, Croatia has the highest rate of mortality from breast cancers in Europe as well as prostate cancer in Europe. In addition, we should be all concerned, especially from the Academy of Reiner, because according to EUROSTAT data in Croatia is the highest rate of preventable mortality. So all that health care should do to prevent unnecessary mortality in Croatia is the highest rate in the EU. So let's say if you get cardiovascular disease or diabetes in Germany or Austria, the chance that you have a better chance of due survival is far greater. Therefore, I would ask the secretary of state to point out all the problems and start solving health problems because not only will foreigners suffer, but the citizens of Croatia will also live shorter, worse, and the long-term quality of the Croatian health system will be even worse. I can't help but mention the reaction of the primary health care doctor...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69374	Comrade Jovanovic, I beg you, I have let you speak, please stick to the subject, nothing you have said is related to this topic So do you really think that someone who came from Somalia has worse health care in Croatia than they have there? [[Invadica Jovanovic: How is it not?]] Let's be serious. Let's be serious, please, let's just focus on the subject, please. [[Invader Jovanovic: Mr. Reiner, then you did not read the law.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69375	I'm fully in the subject, the health care of strangers. So the protection, not the protection of foreigners in the Croatian health system, will be as bad as the health care of Croatian citizens thanks to the incompetent minister and team run by the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69376	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69377	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will continue on my replica from a moment ago, so I will try to analyze the future a little bit, or anything that can actually happen to Croatia and it is about this law. He would disagree with counterpart Jovanovic, Croatia has a good health system, although we must always be critical, it can always be better, but he would dare say that compared to some Western European countries or, for example, Western European countries. to the US that are always our role model, that we have a good health system and a system that is free of charge, it is good and it is okay that the people who come to us in Croatia, means by these categories, searchers for international protection, asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection, vulnerable groups, that they also enjoy the rights they have and the citizens of the Republic, it is okay to understand each other. However, the problem is financing, and we know ourselves that our health system is that every year regardless of the government, regardless of the minister, it is very difficult to find funds to finance the basic health care of Croatian citizens, so we introduced additional health insurance. But despite these problems, we've now introduced here and one I'm going to say and that's okay, health care for categories of people and I think maybe we haven't thought about getting enough money to finance it. Just to understand the context, I have already said that we will be returned to about 1,500 asylum seekers from EU countries and that we have about so many asylum seekers in Croatia. Only 100 people are mentioned here. What about that wave you're just expecting? I spoke the other day, I'll repeat, we have today in Syria two great battlefields... where we have potential maybe 2.2.5 million people who will move into migration if the Turkish military does what it plans, if it wins that north of Syria, if the Syrian army frees the province of Idlib, we will have about 2 million new migrants to Europe, with Germany no longer thinking about accepting migrants in the way it accepted and then we come into a situation that we can have in Croatia no more as it says here 100, and I claim three thousand but we can have a much, much larger number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm in favour of these people enjoying that basic emergency health care and the need for it in the way it's foreseen by this law and what's, after all, some kind of liquid of Western civilization, but we have to be prepared, and I haven't seen that much more financial burden that can happen here. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69378	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69379	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory health insurance and health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 140. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees, and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most of the votes 115 for, 2 abstentions are to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69380	I would now suggest that we unite two points as follows: (a) Proposal for a decision to resolve part of a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development, (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development and then again (a) Proposal for a decision to resolve part of a member of the National Council for Human Resources Development, (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of a member of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials Do you agree to unite those two points in the debate? You agree, I see no one is against it. Just to mention, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 10. The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education Mrs Branko Ramljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69381	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It's an honor and a pleasure to be able to address here in connection with these two points. In the period from March 2015 to June 2017, seven members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources requested a solution on a personal basis because they were representatives of institutions and were changing institutions and, since it is a representative, then it is logical for the institutions to propose new members. The Ministry of Science and Education sent two proposals to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for resolution and appointment in one part of four members in the other two members, and the Government confirmed them at meetings on 2 May and 7 September 2017 and sent the proposal to the Croatian Parliament. The Parliamentary Committee discussed proposal 6.12 and sent a proposal without any objections to the follow-up procedure. So first of all in this decision for the first decision, it is required that the next members be relieved of their duties on their personal request and appointed according to the proposals of the competent institutions, Mr. Sanja Crnkovic Pozaic sent a request for resolution at a personal request, so as a representative of the labour ministry, it is replaced by Mrs Irena Bacelic of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Furthermore, Vlatka Marcan, appointed representative of the Ministry of Regional Development, is changing new representative Mat Pesut to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Marko Boras Mandić appointed as representative of the regional self-government, changes with the new representative Dr. The Royal Iron Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. And finally, for this first decision, Mr Davor Majetic was appointed as representative of the employers' representative associations also submitted a request for resolution, changing the new representative Jasminko Martinovic of the Croatian Employers' Association. Finally, we also have a representative Stankic Vrban from HGK, she is changing with the new representative Bozo Pavin. And in our second decision, we also have a personal request for Mrs. Professor's discharge. Blaženka Divjak, appointed High School Representative on the proposal of the Rector's Assembly, is amended by the new representative of the Rector's Assembly of Professors. Ivana Čuković Bagic and the proposal also to Dr. Dr. Robert Kopal, appointed high school representative, replaces the new representative Dr. Miram Lenardić Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69382	Thank you very much. First of all, does one of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in front of the "Live Wall" Club and the "SNAGA" Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's gone. He's losing his right. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Mr. Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, who is here and who will represent the positions of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69383	Thank you, Vice President. Hello to the secretary of state. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support these proposals, that's totally logical. However, I would like to highlight a few notes. So this is a very important body, the Croatian Parliament refers to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Presidents and members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. We have received material in which free colleague Sokol can now be picked up on behalf of the ministry as well as Mrs Putica so for nine months at least we wait to appoint members and members, even materials are so old. They state that they will represent Dr.sc on behalf of the promoter. Tomislav Sokol, Sanja Putica and not to mention. I'm a little bit of a joke, but I'm more sarcastic. It is therefore unacceptable to wait this long to be appointed members and members of this key body for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. So if the citizens are looking at us, they may have no idea what the National Council for Human Resources Development is and where they would put it, so for them, I repeat that the National Council for Human Potential Development is the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. So an extremely important body, and the Croatian Qualifications Framework, I hope we will soon have a debate on the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework in the way the ministry proposed and managed to resist the lobbyist interests of individual universities of the Zagreb University. The Croatian Qualifications Framework is a reform instrument that regulates the overall qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic through qualifications standards based on learning outcomes and in line with labour market needs, individuals and society as a whole. So, something crucial for our education system and linking education and science to the economy. And then what's the national council doing? It assesses, values and coordinates public policies such as education, employment policy, lifelong professional guidance and regional development, taking into account the impact on human potential development and achieving strategic goals and competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. How nice it sounds but actually it is the task of this council and therefore once again inadmissible that all the services that were to prepare these materials did not ensure that it was at the debate in the Croatian Parliament earlier because we are thus showing one underestimation to this extremely significant body. And I will end up with another body that also the Parliament has clearly shown a marked disrespect but thus also the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, where we have been waiting for months to name new members so that this committee can start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69384	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sanja Putica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69385	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of what days on our benches we get the appointment of new members of the Human Resources Development Council, I deeply believe that this council has maintained transparency in its election and that today we will choose people who will, by their expertise and their careers, actually show that they are competent to work in this council. I agree with you that this council is extremely important and should not be underestimated in this sense by us sitting on the Committee on Science and Education, which can also contribute to the quality of the work of this council as well as our proposals addressed to the Ministry itself. What I would point out, it doesn't seem so worrying to me that today we have appointing already mass makes a significant appointment of this council as much as we are going through the media into this stronger process, a more intense process of curriculative reform, and in particular we had in our first reading in this House and a proposal for a law on vocational education that I think this council would have absolutely anything to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69386	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69387	My colleague Putica, I fully agree with you, I have answered only to respond to this replica because in my debate on behalf of the club I have not disputed in any word members and new members, however, I support their choice and I am confident that my experience will contribute to the work of this extremely significant body but I believe that this long wait still meant one disrespect and that this must not be allowed in the future for any body appointed by members and members of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69388	Thank you very much. No more replicas. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since Mrs Ramljak gave one opening statement and counted all the names, I will only repeat that this issue was discussed by the Committee on Education and Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at its 20th session held on 7 December 2017 and gave a positive indication which, on that basis, also the HDZ Representatives Club of course supports. And we will note that here is the fact that individual members of the National Council for Human Resources Development, Mrs Vlatka Marcan, Mr Mako Boras, Slavica Mandić Vrban, Mrs Sanja Crnković Pozaić and Mr Davor Majetic have submitted personal requests for a solution for the post of member of the same-named National Council. The HDZ advocates' club will support the proposal that Mrs. Irena Bacelic, Mate Pesut, dr.sc. Željko Krajičak, Jasminka Martinović and Mr Bozo Pavicin, in turn representatives of different institutions name the National Council for Human Resources Development. And also on the basis of a decision on resolution of 8 September to take place instead of Prof. dr.sc. Blaženka Divjak and doc. dr.sc. Roberta Kopol, in their seats for members of the National Council, is named Prof. Dr.sc. Ivana Curković Bagić and dr.sc. Mira Lenardic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69390	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. So here's because the decisions themselves have been said a lot and there's nothing controversial about the name, I would refer to myself, I would say something a little wider about what the National Council for Human Resources Development is and what the Croatian Qualifications Framework is, so part of it already said by my colleague Jovanovic. The Croatian qualification framework is part of a European qualification framework, as a colleague said, it was defined and established by the European Parliament and the Council's 2008 recommendation. It establishes a common reference framework of 8 levels of qualifications presented in the form of learning outcomes with relevant levels that maintain complexity. They serve as an interpreter of the differences between different systems, qualifications of their levels. So the purpose of the European Qualifications Framework is to improve transparency, comparability and portability of the qualifications of persons. It means establishing a system of connecting high, in fact, the entire vertical education with the labour market and enabling mobility in the EU. What I would point out, however, on this occasion is that the recommendation by definition is something optional. The Council's recommendation is an EU act, but it does not oblige Member States. This remains also mentioned in the new 2017 recommendation, which says, in view of its non-binding nature, this recommendation respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, support and complementarity of the activities of Member States, facilitating further cooperation between them in order to increase transparency, comparability and portability of qualifications of persons. So... Of course, different Member States can implement such recommendations in different ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has decided to make one law. So the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which was adopted in 2013 in the mandate of the SDP government. So that was our free choice, to make the law in this form as it is and to create the whole system as it exists today. In the EU, when we look at the education system and how it is regulated at Union level, it should be stressed that the Union primarily supports Member States' activities. So it's prescribed in Art. The 168th Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which states that the EU fully respects the responsibility of the Member State for teaching content and the establishment of education systems and that any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States has been excluded. This means that countries have a great autonomy and a key role to approve themselves which are their priorities of the education system, but what is important and how it will organise it. And that also applies to the qualification framework. So, according to her own interests, needs and what every state and government thinks is important to her. Why are they all saying that? So this is all because in Croatia, we often, unfortunately, prescribe some solutions from the EU, from different documents and it is established as something that has to be established in a certain way, and very often it is not. And it's important to emphasize, and especially because the education system is very sensitive, so it doesn't suffer sudden reform over its knees, because, in order for someone to satisfy some of their personal ambitions to be remembered in history or something like that, it's necessary to analyze very thoroughly, to develop new programs, to prepare the system, and that, together, it has to go through a serious review which, of course, is the basic element of every scientific approach to each topic. Why do I mention it in particular? So, because of the very concept of learning outcomes. So that's where I think it's a new instrument that's being introduced into our primary and secondary education system, but also high and certainly should be looked after. So if only 10-12 learning outcomes are determined, for example for some items, most of the content may remain uninvolved. If the whole content tries to show up through learning outcomes, then we get them to 100. So for one teaching class in elementary or high school, you have several hundred learning outcomes. That's what matters. So there's a need to be very careful, so that some things aren't done that might not get the desired effect. And, of course, there must be one weed of content, which will be the basis of what learning outcomes for competences will be further upgraded. So that's what I'm saying, so you need to be very careful with the big reforms and you don't need to automatically move everything that was good sometimes but you need to be very careful and thorough and know what they want. As far as the National Council itself is concerned about the development of human potential, it is important at different levels and in different laws. I know, for example, that it is currently in the process of amending and supplementing the Quality Insurance Act in higher education. I know that there, that there are, as far as I've heard, there are different ideas, how to fix this problem in the right way. What he would also point out, to be careful, that certain market principles would not be fully, without any restrictions transplanted into our system, which may not be so readily accepted. In this respect, it would point out that Member States have great freedom and autonomy, that they themselves assess what their public interest is and to what extent market principles, which advocate both the EU and its regulations and services, etc. to make it clear, that the assessment itself to what extent it is necessary to introduce them. And I think the key is that public interest. It means that the state clearly sees what is the public interest in the education system and that this public interest protects and that we should be very careful if certain principles, which may already be accepted in some countries, are subsequently covered by an attempt to introduce ourselves into Croatia. Let me get this straight, right? Reforms are needed, they need to be well thought out, they need to be careful that new reforms don't do things needlessly administration, to build up some councils, bodies, hundreds of people who are going to do some work is actually just maybe complicating the whole system. So there should be very careful and what you would especially point out, that we need dialogue. Unfortunately, in the last maybe 2-3 years, we have seen that in our higher education system, where this dialogue has worked as much as it has so far, unfortunately has been greatly disrupted. We have a situation that in some colleges, prominent professors, contracts are not extended because of a grudge, a certain majority of them possibly to a university council or something like that. We have situations where political breaks, trying to interfere with college staffing, etc. I don't think that's a good way to go. I think that we need patience, more dialogues with our own insinuators, and to include all stakeholders in the process, so that this educated reform, around which so many spear fractures actually work in practice. And that's why I'm appealing to all sides of the different maybe world view, etc. to try to develop this dialogue, not to impose their criteria as the only acceptable to others, but to really try to make this education system together as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69392	Thank you very much. Mr. Falcon, you have two replicas. First replica, Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69393	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sokol, you mentioned that education should not only be conducted if I understand you well with market interests, but that we should watch what it is, education through prism, public goods. And I fully agree with you here, and often here in the parliamentary debates, I point out the dangers of a single thesis that has been going through over the past two years in particular, and it is very often in discussions on full curricular reform when one of the more important objections points out sub-representation or insufficient representation of the STEM area. Now, I don't really want to say that in Croatia there is no need for all education systems to increase this STEM part a little, but I am also an advocate of that there is no education in the function of public good without social activities. At the recently held World Education Forum in London, where the Minister of Science and Education also attended a special ovation, just as he spoke about the progress of technology where these STEM areas were highlighted, what is the key to survival and survival of the world is education that focuses on a young man who is critical, who is thinking analytically and who is developing as a person rather than as a computer, because people will not replace computers or people are irreplaceable to computers, regardless of the progress of technology. I believe that in our Croatian space when we talk about education we must not allow the thesis that the only thing we need to put a weight in the future is STEM, no, to protect man and to safeguard what a man does, which computers can never replace and will not replace.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69394	I let you go a little bit more. Here you go, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm very glad you're talking about... the social humanist area, here I can't tell you how pleased I am. For what? Because in office, normally I don't like to talk about it, but here I really had to react, in the term of your government when you were a ministerial assistant was passed a well-known rules on choice in scientific calling which was actually and about it existed largely in the consensus of exactly social humanistic science brought into a very, very difficult situation, precisely because it did not ignore their specificities, importance for national identity and everything else that it meant. I remember just now that social humanities had the most grudges at the time on what was then coming from the ministry. So I'm very glad that you've changed your mind here, that you're representing each other now. I'm very glad. By noting that it wasn't the only thing that came from the ministry that ended up in the Constitutional Court and fell, I think there were seven such situations in your term, which I think is some record, I'm not sure, but I think it's one of the bigger records in the term of one ministry. As for liberalisation that we understand each other, I think that the system should be relaxed, that openness should be enabled and what is particularly important is that emphasis should be placed on content. So not to whether a programme is formally offered at this institution or on that one, but that they are essentially the same and that they can give the same qualifications and give the same opportunities further and more. So I think we need a good balance, I think we need to relax, open up. I am sorry to say about those known changes and additions that eventually gave up because of the new law because measures had just been envisaged to facilitate the system, to allow easier entry into the system of returnees abroad and people who had not worked at the university until then, and I hope it will also be in the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69396	Thank you, too. The second replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69397	Thank you very much. Here's how my colleague Sabina can't answer, then I'll use some of my replica in that direction. There weren't seven documents, seven laws, regulations at the Constitutional Court of the Ministry, you know that, there were only a few of them, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. And the rule you're talking about wasn't written by the ministry, so fellow Sokol, you know it, everyone knows that the rule of progress was written by the profession, not by the minister, not by his assistants, but by the profession, and that he fell because of the staff of the Constitutional Court and the famous judge who was the President of the Constitutional Court and who used a 12-month fee he had no right to do because he was supposed to return to law school. So by means of its design, by means of a section of the Faculty of Law and by the Constitutional Court, that rule has been given a negative opinion. But it wasn't written by Sabina Glasovac, I didn't write it myself, it was written by the profession, so the heads of social humanist sciences who wanted to edit the area of social humanistic science differently. I answered to tell you that I agree with you, so it's not okay when a new set comes in that it's trying to tear down everything the previous set did, and the Croatian qualification framework is just proof that we did so. So the Croatian Qualifications Framework started preparing in 2006 and we accepted everything that was good in our mandate unchanged and let the profession develop the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I now appeal that the new set does not retaliate the Minister Divjak but, together with it, try to implement the strategy the way the Parliament brought it, and has brought unanimously, with the HDZ having only one, opposed only one fact, and that there is not enough resources provided. Thus, in no sentence has he denied a single item of the Strategy for the Development of Education, Science and Technology from which curricular reform arises.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69398	When the waist comes to power you see... maybe it's better if you wrote it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Jovanovic, that's how it was formally brought by the National Council, I think we all know that, but we know who were members of the National Council, which the dominant political options were and as they were appointed. Well, I don't think we're gonna be kidding around right now. You all know that this rulebook is a colloquial bearing the name of your then deputy who is now in another party. I mean, there's no point in acting here and calling for some sort of formal thing when everyone in the academic community knows what the truth is. I mean, there's really no need to say it paints. And as for the girdle, I don't think I'd go into those stories, I think we should protect the integrity of the institutions in this country, and one of those institutions is the Constitutional Court. And that you're bringing some sort of craftsmanship of private theory, etc. Who, who and how. I think it violates both Parliament and all state institutions and I think it really needs to be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69400	Thank you very much. Now we continue with individual debates. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69401	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary. This is how when we talk about education and learn different new terms, so I've done the shorts that I'm new at, I have to admit these last year of NCV, PSP, ERS. So National Centre for External Evaluation, Special Expert Commission, Expert Working Group. So here we are today talking about the National Council for Human Resources Development. It is very many of these groups, very many of these bodies, and one listener who is this small and slightly superficial and does not get into the measure, it is very difficult to grasp what is involved, and it is about the most important topic, one of the most important topics for our country in one of the most important educational resolutions. And here I have to say here I'm glad that it's in the preparation of a new law and I'm happy that the new law will come out. I think it's this key document that will actually contribute to the education of young people for the labour market, but I'm going to say not only about the labour market but that, not forget that schools and education mean the dimension of schools, educational institutions, or that we raise them for values, for those values that I believe we all inherit as a society. What I would say here, here I will mention and I mean the Croatian qualification framework because it is very important, so it is related to the meaning of the National Council for Human Resources Development. And what's important here is to re-connect that it's about these famous learning outcomes. So far, we've been going through programs and plans in schools, but here's what we're talking about today. Well, everyone who works at school, and it's not clear what they expect me to do, get a little closer. So the basic contents will be meant to be mandatory, and will be given the freedom of professors to actually teach in their own way the contents that are related to the subject, and that main content will be significantly smaller than it has been so far. Apparently, such systems exist in some other countries where outcomes are mentioned, not content. Personally, I have to admit, given that I've had a great experience working at school for a long time, I'm a little skeptical, I'm a little scared. I don't know how it's going to work and this whole experiment of reforming the curricula that we're going to be going to fall. I'm afraid it might be going a little too fast, that it hasn't thought about all the problems he's got very, very much. Here, when we talk about the Croatian qualification framework, we are actually talking about education policy, and I will point out again. We can't just think about educating people for the labour market tomorrow. We need to talk about STEM area, we need to say that these items are represented in an adequate way, but we must not forget the value, or value system. On the other hand, I would like these people that we are going to confirm today, i.e. tomorrow by voting in the Croatian Parliament, that they are aware that all people in Croatia are not thinking the same thing and that they are taking care of plurality, which is the key to which Croatian society differs from some other societies and that this plurality is interpolated, means integrated into a new law, i.e. that these people who are going to work on the Croatian qualification framework, i.e. people who will be elected to the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials of Plurality Management, and that it will be integrated into a new law tomorrow. And that's what's key and what we can't forget. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69402	Thank you very much. You only have one replica, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Zekanovic, you mentioned this whole institutional framework for our educational reform. Well, here's how much I agree with you. I mean, I am a lawyer, but I don't like too much administration and the accumulation of some different bodies, and I especially don't like any keys now and a lot of language targets from which you actually often lose a bit. What is the fact that this system was established by the basis of the Strategy when it was established. Some will say in our academic community that it was because then the advisor to the prime minister at the time wanted to do things besides the ministry. I wouldn't go into that right now, but there's a lot of talk about it in the academic community. But we're where we are now. What's important is that these institutions and these bodies become functional as soon as possible and do what they do. And I think we all agree on that. As far as pluralism is concerned, I agree with that, too. I think we in Croatia have one general problem, and that is that some in society are being placed as supreme arbiters. So some in this society would tell others what they can't say, what they can't. And what seems to me is that, unfortunately, it is an avaism from some former totalitarian times when they were able to determine who would be where, who would stay in Croatia, who would go out because they couldn't get a job, etc. So enemies and people's liberating struggles, revolutions, everything else. I'm afraid some of that mentality remains in our society today, and I think we should avoid it if we want to become a modern state. And I think that even new generations through educational reform are about to learn this pluralism, just to learn that both parents and families have the right to a different worldview that may not be imposed, which will not be imposed by some censors in some institutions, etc. And that's one fortune we all have to strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69404	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Zekanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69405	Dear fellow Sokol, you've noticed well, and here we have heard here today that we actually have on one side in the Croatian Parliament actually challenging legitimacy as if when someone in power has the right to staff in their own way, and the other actually argues that they are humanizing in another way. And that's what I always find incomprehensible. And here I'm going to be a little more specific about this plurality. We have several levels of curicula. We have that school curricula that brings, meaning the Administrative Board of each school, where we have some sort of between the topics in question and some optional content, where in fact, in this one optional content, some topics can be implemented that each parent will choose according to its own worldview, or according to the values that it holds. And that's what's very important to enable not in the mandatory content, but in the content that each school chooses, to allow parents to choose or not to choose through extracurricular activities, through some of the topics in question that suit them. And that's what one minimum minimum is, and I think it's necessary to integrate into this new law, it's one plurality to see that we're as a society of progress and we accept and different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I would use as much time as it will allow me to talk precisely in the context of the role of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in the Development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a tool for quality assurance when it comes to designing, I think that there we went farthest and then teaching programs in high school, especially in vocational schools when we talk about their adaptation to the labour market. And of course I would like to open one such issue of the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a tool for ensuring quality in the higher education system and then in the system of primary and secondary education when the time comes. And finally, as colleagues have already pointed out, some of them, I say to us soon, in the parliamentary debate and the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the Law on quality assurance in higher education and, of course, that the National Council for Human Resources Development has one important role there as a body developing the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Now, of course, why would she want to say a few sentences about the quality of the study programs? First of all, because of the fact that and why higher education. First of all, the study programme, a good one and a quality study programme is a key to quality and one of the essential keys of output results in order to get as a final product of students, students, above all students who will manage and quickly adapt to the world of work and whose interest and competences will be in line with the needs of the labour market, and in order to do so, programmes must be harmonised with the standard of occupation and with the standard of qualification which then determines the outcome and learning as the key content of qualifications. When I say this, I will just remind myself of the fact that the Agency for Science and Higher Education in the past wave of re-accreditation of the studies programme, just one piece of information, is the denied license for the implementation of about twenty studies programmes, which is not a little bit. In this context, I would like to talk about the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a quality tool and about what fellow Sokol said, that the Croatian qualification framework is not binding. So he does not oblige Croatia to have to but we have set out in the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and I think that's good. The question of access to the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is what we will believe as I said more debated when it comes to the Quality Act. In this regard, when it comes to accessing the implementation itself, we should identify ourselves in view of the current situation that we have in relation to the study programmes both at our universities, both at universities, high schools, taking into account the binary concept where we should actually think about applying or implementing in all ways. I would call it a voluntary, voluntary application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and mandatory application in which, when it comes to voluntary application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, we can actually view the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a kind of brand of quality and when it comes to compulsory application in the design of new student programmes as a simple accreditation standard that must be implemented in the initial accreditation of study programmes in order to obtain the permit at all. In this regard, we can talk about the study programmes whose design and then accreditation goes either through the initial accreditation procedures carried out by the Agency for Science and Higher Education when a professional study or procedure that goes through initial accreditation carried out by quality assurance units at universities or the Senate as a final instance that approves the implementation of a new study programme. And this should determine what the ultimate objective of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is, I agree, someone said it is a reform tool and that it enables, among other things, comparisons and occupations and qualifications of those we have with... with a European higher education area, with qualifications and interests that students have when they complete their studies outside Croatia and then compare mobility, and there is now a whole series of issues that are being raised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that this topic and the problem really should be discussed in a calm atmosphere in order to then find the best possible way to apply the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a quality instrument and not apply it in a way that everyone has implemented it, and then we also have to go and we have to do it at all costs. So, I agree with my colleagues that there is no need to rush into this, that there is nothing to be done quickly, that there is no need to think carefully, in any case, to support the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials but also to think carefully, therefore, when we talk about the standard of interest and qualifications and the outcomes of learning that determine therefore, the standards of qualification, to which extent these learning outcomes are represented to a sufficient or excessive extent, and to what extent we are left in the background, are, therefore, neglected, among other things and content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69408	Thank you, too. Mr. Falcon has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, I agree with you, you said a lot of things, here's two things that I think are important, first selection. So what's very important in ours, now I'm going to talk to the higher education system is that this system, accreditation and initial work of accreditation works the right way. That there are really criteria that will guarantee this famous quality. Unfortunately, we've had cases in some perhaps further past, that they've accredited, maybe some things they shouldn't have. And that may be one mistake, but which I certainly think can and should be fixed. What's important is that we don't do things over our knees again, but to gradually raise the criteria, so that our education system works in the right way. What is particularly important, however, is that this issue is excluded from what is unskilled at this initial level, the level of accreditation. And not that, if some programmes are not formally in line with each other, some claim that they are not good quality, but are actually the same, then they are not given the same qualifications, and appropriate qualifications, etc. So what you unqualityly rule out in that initial part, but if something gets accredited, then everyone has the right to act in that system and what they would say is free to live, both publicly and privately. As far as this is concerned, there is often noise, I think I should just repeat here, that only 5% of the students in Croatia are studying at private high schools. So in that sense, I don't think they're the main problem, despite the fact that maybe there are stakeholders involved with some of them that I'm not getting into. I'm not the police or the DORH or anything like that, but in general I think we should develop that attitude, that something is not bad, just because it's not part of this system or that system, but that it really looks at quality, and for that you need that threshold, that initial threshold to lift as much as possible, that we have the right quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69410	Here, let's take advantage of the replicas inside the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69411	So, I really agree, what I think is very important, and I agree with the word selection, so a good starting position equals everything, with a high-rise scale, of course in the height in which most of them can achieve it with clear and uniform criteria. And this second, therefore, we must be aware that we have a bunch of study programs, which are not in line with the Croatian qualification framework because we didn't even have it. And for this reason it is necessary to prescribe clear procedures, align with the Croatian qualification framework. So, in order to enable everyone to get their programs in line with HKK and not at the same time, what you said, to get out of the car and to disable, therefore, the implementation of the study programs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69412	Thank you, too. And finally, now Mrs. Voter, who apparently won't have a replica within the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69413	Yeah, alone on stage, objective reasons exist for that. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm glad we finally got on the assembly bench a proposal to appoint new members of the National Council for Human Resources Development. It would be good if this kind of bang of 9-month acidification were actually proposed somewhere in the halls or in Parliament's rooms before they arrived at the assembly benches. And if we were much more operational in this creation of preconditions, actually we as a Parliament create legislative proposals, we are passing laws, but we are also creating preconditions for the work of some national bodies that we have authorized to do the work we have authorized them to do, and then, on the other hand, fortunately, there is no question of quorum here. The number of members who had their mandates was sufficient, so that this did not affect the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development and could have been different. I am a proponent and I support those colleagues and colleagues who see nothing controversial in accepting the Republic of Croatia in fact, through Croatian, to accept the Croatian, or, to establish a Croatian qualification framework as a key instrument of quality assurance. I think that this is an important step, so, and when we do quite often, we have these 3 levels, in fact, ensuring quality in vocational education, ensuring quality in higher education, but also in one area where Croatia unfortunately, according to all parameters, which are measurable among EU members, unfortunately, at the beginning of the column, which is extremely important for the development of not only man but society, and that is lifelong learning, that is, ensuring quality through HKO in adult education, whose main postulate lifelong learning. We as the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately we have 5% of our citizens, who are involved in some kind of lifelong learning, this is truly a devastating statistic, and we have to work very hard as a state because simply social change, society is such that by completing our formal education, regardless of whether it's pretercial or high education, we have to realize that today you can't as an individual, as a social being, but as a person on the labour market, you can't actually survive if you're not aware of the importance of lifelong learning. And in the state to secure the instruments, that people can acquire some formal and informative, informal forms of lifelong learning, which we unfortunately still don't have or do not have but we are really at a beginner's level and I'm going to call it that. HKO is also very important to us in order to ensure this passivity which is vertical as horizontal as possible. Likewise, even now that we are a full member of the EU of our qualifications, European qualifications are mutually recognizable, to ensure this mobility in both directions. I think it may be important from the Croatian Parliament to give support not only to the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials but also to the sectoral councils for those who are formed, but also to those who I think are still not. I think that maybe we should put it in there, I mean we weren't here honestly here, as far as I know by 2015, we weren't satisfied with the dynamics of how the law was established is not just one thing, but then what happened after that was the establishment of sectoral councils, the adoption of standards of interest, the standards of qualifications went much slower and the tromia than we anticipated and expected. I think it's extremely important that we put it in fifth, sixth gear because there's no such reform, no matter what we're talking about, we can now talk about any concept of full curricula reform, that we have all the premises now. For example, in vocational education we will not do much if we do not have standards of interest, standards of qualifications, if we do not have a register, if we do not have a functional implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. And that's where we really need to step up our activities, and there's no reason why we should do it slowly anymore. And among other things, a lot of financial resources are available to us, and I think that there and operational programmes of effective human potential on the one hand, on the other hand, coherence and cohesion means both ISF and IRDF, or ISF, in this case, is available to us and should really be used wisely to develop standards of interest and qualifications. And finally, not to use all the time to pay back the debt I had before. I'd just like here's not part of it, please don't give me a heads-up about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, maybe it's not part of the subject, but it's tied up. So we as the Croatian Parliament must respectfully treat the bodies we appoint, and I will repeat, provide them with all the preconditions for work. So we waited nine months to complete it in some way, at least with these two persons, the National Council for the Development of Human Resources, but I will only tell here the National Council for Education and Education, a key strategic national body established in this Croatian Assembly, has been given the mandate to assist both the Ministry and the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the strategic reflections of all educational processes. So a year, since January 2017, that body hasn't worked, it doesn't work, it hasn't held any sessions, there's no quorum. The Croatian Parliament is awaiting the appointment of eight members of the president and seven members and members of the National Council for Education and Education. We've been getting suggestions on the board twice, you haven't probably co-ordinated each other, there's been some woods in the canal, I'm not getting into your relationship with each other now, I'm appealing. It is not right that for a year because of Croatian Parliament's trinity, look will eventually fall to the Croatian Parliament's responsibility, regardless of what someone in the Government can't, the Government sent the Croatian Parliament its proposal, which was controversial by many things and was withdrawn, and it went back with that proposal and obviously did not succeed in most of the ruling majority. But don't do it. The Croatian Parliament is ultimately responsible for this, regardless of the grasses in the ruling coalition, let us, within a reasonable period, allow it to function on the National Council for Education and Education, and not to be the brakesters of its work here in the Croatian Parliament, because since 1 January 2017 it has not worked, it is not, although we are in this Croatian Parliament that it must work and what it must do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69414	Thank you very much. But you're not finished yet. You have two replicas. First replica, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Voter, I'm glad to see today something that is very rare in our policy, which is self-critic. So you are calling out for a few months that you may have delayed the appointment of members of the National Council for the development of human potentials, but you have confessed and I am glad that you have confessed, who admits half of whom is forgiven that you are... I think only seven sectoral councils from and you in your mandate have appointed only seven sectoral councils if I am not mistaken, less than a third. So here I am glad that you yourself have admitted that some things in your mandate could have been done faster and I am very pleased. I hope that these self-critics and honesty in our policy will be even more. As for the funds, you mentioned the funds, so here I would also point out once again that in 2017 in the field of science and education it was a key year and a crucial year as regards European funds, especially the first half of the year, just to list some things. After several years of difficulty for various reasons, the financing of scientific centres of excellence from the Regional Development Fund has been resolved, contracts of over 370 million kuna have been signed, predispositions have been prepared one project has been given strategic status and for two large and two strategic projects are prepared 95% of this for tendering. From the European Social Fund, finally after many years behind when, for example, you have practically closed the entry of new young scientists into the system in three years, we have prepared a tender for 154 new young PhDs from the European Social Fund and in the budget for the following year we have provided funding for additional PhDs that allow us to have such dynamics that we will be able to have this natural replacement from 200 to 250 new young PhDs annually. And that's exactly the added value this government has made, that we've taken that break that's made many of our high-quality young scientists go out and I hope that's how they'll continue. I hope that you, as a constructive opposition, will support me in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69416	Thank you, too. Here's your answer, Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69417	Comrade Falcon, there's plenty of time we'll get to know each other. I am critical, but more than being critical, I'm very self-critical, and it's not the only thing I think we could do faster or better, have a lot of things. For this part, I wouldn't be going into debate with you right now, I don't think I'm the most competent talker on the doctorate, you know that I run one completely different administration. Of course I'm carrying part of the responsibility because I was part of the management structure at the Ministry of Science and Education at the time, but I can't justifiably replicate you right now. I could be working in that part that I was directly responsible for, which is preschool, primary and secondary. What was once the Ministry of Education. Secondly, that you can now use EU funds because we have really done something there. We've been here a little bit tromical and slower in some parts. We didn't actually go with the dynamics that we imagined and needed for these or those reasons. But as for the operational programmes we worked on them for a year, we ran the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament and created the preconditions for EU funding to be used by 2020. I'm just saddened that, well, the Ministry of Science and Education has been one of the more successful examples of fund withdrawals in our term, and I'm glad that you continued because what now, so the level at which the government and the Republic of Croatia are actually losers in the withdrawal of funds, I think it's a one-digit percentage number, is really something that is not our honor. But here, I hope that the Ministry of Science and Education in this sad statistics will be a bright point because in education these funds are needed more than anywhere I will dare say in a quadruple and more will return every euro invested in the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69418	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69419	Well, here's what I'd like to say is a brief proposal of criticism, self-criticism, constructive criticism, this kind of criticism. I believe that if we all want to improve the system and if we want a good system of education in Croatia, first of all, we must be self-critical, we must be critical and first of all, so that our discussions are fruitful and articulated our criticisms based on a constructive approach and based them on facts. So it's nice to say we've done a lot, we could have done better, and it's actually one statement that says it all, and it doesn't say anything. We could've done better. Here we are aware that it could have been more. I would rather base it on facts and data, and then I would say a proposal of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources, which is zero years, so when it was founded in 2013. So, after that 2014 paper, 2015 full year so work in the term of your government. At that time, only 7 sectoral councils of 25 were established. So, fact. As for the Croatian Qualifications Framework, of course, we need a register, so the register is the basic base in which we have to enter the standard of interest and qualifications if we want the story to work, and then I'll go back to facts and constructive criticism this time towards you, that the last time we asked a question, it seemed to me that there was a debate on the report, about the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development, and so we went there, we were interested, and I was personally interested. Okay. Okay. If we're working on how many standard occupations we've defined so far. The answer was one standard of interest ranging from the end of 2013 to the beginning of not this but the middle there and last year it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69420	Thank you. Mrs. Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69421	It's been exactly a year and a half, two that seven sector councils were founded. But now you're two years where you are, and here we expect that speed to not know how much it is now in these two years. And if we're going to judge by this dynamic that you're referring to proposals for the appointment of members of the National Council for Human Resources Development, or don't give God at the speed of any office in the Assembly, there's a proposal for members for the National Council, education and education, then it hurts the head of dynamics that's probably tripled or I don't know how to triple. But I wish you good luck. It means that all those childhood diseases that we've been going through that you've been going around, learning from our mistakes, and expecting the sixth speed from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69422	Thank you very much. You can continue for coffee if you want. I'm closing the debate. There were two points to the agenda of the same name. It's kind of a weird thing, but there's a reason. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Mrs. Ramljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69423	We are now moving to the next point, under A, the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources and B the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for the development of human potentials, please vote. I find that most of the vote 101 for, 12 abstentions, has been decided to resolve part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am now voting on the motion for decisions to appoint part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials, please vote. I find that most of the 95 votes for, 12 abstentions and 6 against, a decision has been taken to appoint part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69468	We move on to - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of an enhanced partnership agreement and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 270. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure bring together two readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the representative of the proposer, or the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, want to give an additional explanation to the Government? We have Mrs Andrea Metelko Zgombić with us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69469	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. In April 2011, the EU Council authorised the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security to launch negotiations with Kazakhstan on a new enhanced partnership and co-operation agreement that would replace the existing 1999 Co-operation and Partnership Agreement. Negotiations began in June 2011. The two sides agreed on the text of the agreement initialled on 20 January 2015 after 8 rounds of talks in September 2014. Representatives of EU member states, including Croatia, signed an agreement on the sidelines of the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 16 November 2015, while representatives of the European Union and Kazakhstan signed it in Astana on 21 December 2015. The enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement is a comprehensive international instrument providing a legal framework for business, trade, investment, and cooperation in all areas of production, through public finances and culture. For the EU and the Republic of Croatia, this agreement is an important step towards strengthening political dialogue, concreteising bilateral co-operation with Kazakhstan as the EU's largest trading partner, and providing a political framework for talks. The agreement will also ensure that the EU and the Republic of Croatia have greater political, economic engagement and influence in Central Asia. The provisional application of most of the provisions of the Agreement began on 1 May 2016. There are now procedures in the other Member States to confirm this agreement. When it comes to Croatia, Croatian relations with Kazakhstan are very important. The foreign and European ministry plans to open an embassy in Astana during this year. In 2017, Croatia and Kazakhstan signed a double taxation agreement which is also on confirmation before this House. The plan is in 2018 to sign economic cooperation contracts, and several memorandums of agreement in the areas of agriculture, tourism, science, education, and justice. The implementation of this law will take place within the framework of the regular activities of the state administration body and will not need to provide additional funding in the state budget. Thank you for your attention. I'm at my disposal for possible additional questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69470	Thank you, too. Mr. Stier has a short replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed a brief replica, i.e. to thank the Secretary of State and to further say that I think that confirming this, i.e. the ratification of this agreement, is a good thing for our businessmen, given that we have some, in particular, construction firms that do business or want to expand business with Kazakhstan especially in Stan, and the confirmation of this agreement as well as the opening of the embassy, I think that in this context there will be an additional incentive for these businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69472	Thank you, too. Do any of the committee reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. Mr. Miro Bulj, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Vesna Pusic, GLAS and HSU representatives' club. She's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic in front of SDP's Club of Representatives. He's gone. He's losing his right. Since there are no MPs, we have exhausted the list, all the debate lists for this agenda item. I don't suppose there's any closing word. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. We'll continue tomorrow, Friday, February 2nd with the dots. We only have two points. First point of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act in the first reading, therefore. And the second final draft of the law on administrative inspection means in the second reading. Thank you very much and goodbye! Good night! Session interrupted at 18.10 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-01-0.u69473	The final proposal of the Law to confirm an enhanced partnership agreement and cooperation between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the other hand, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 270. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting to finalise the proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that 113 votes are unanimous for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an enhanced partnership agreement and cooperation between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the other. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the work, the first point is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Insurance Central Register Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 263. The first one came forward by a colleague, Alexic.
