ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65705	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to talk one more time about the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65706	Okay. The other is a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65707	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I want to talk about the 3 judgments of December in the case of francs in Germany, Greece and Slovenia. They're all for the integrity of the contract and the currency clauses CHF.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65708	She's a colleague of Jack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65709	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club to discuss the current situation in the east of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65710	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Lenart's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65711	... I'm looking for a situation on behalf of the HSS Club on petrochemicals and petrochemical problems. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65712	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65713	The Honorable President of the Curiculum of Social Science in the Curiculum, school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65714	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65715	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mosta Club for 10 minutes, the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65716	Is anyone else picking up? I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65717	Dear Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU to say something about the work of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65718	Thank you. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65719	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65720	Thank you. We'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the HNS and the esteemed colleague Maria Puh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65722	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's today from this pay phone I'd like to tell you that the HNS is not going to give in to the Istanbul Convention. The Istanbul Convention is not a polygon for ideological bickering. As long as one girl, woman and one victim in Croatia suffers violence, I will not and the HNS will not give up insisting on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I ask all those who are afraid of what? What will change exactly when we ratify the Istanbul Convention? What changed in France, Italy, and Germany? Are we going to choose violence as a pattern of behavior? Are we going to sacrifice victims of violence for political outwittings and ideological bickering? I'm asking you, what's going to happen? The only thing that will happen and what needs to happen is the protection of victims of violence, sanctioning the perpetrators and ultimately reducing the number of violence. I want that kind of company. I want Croatia that helps the most vulnerable. I want Croatia to stand by progressive countries that do everything to protect vulnerable groups. If Poland could ratify the Istanbul Convention in 2015, Croatia can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65723	The second debate Lives the Wall and SNAGA and the Honored Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65724	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. During December, it was a very exciting case-law across the EU. I am extremely pleased and proud that we here in Croatia have started a process which the EU recognises as the right thing to do. And all the judgments that have taken place in recent months are in our favor. First of all, in December Germany, a final court ruling establishing that the bank has agreed an unfair and worthless contractual provision on the currency clause CHF, and this is a contract with a legal person, not with consumers, but with a legal person. So, North Paradise-Westphalia has received the power of judgment in Germany and the bank has to return the total difference of course to North Paradise-Westphalia due to the negotiation of the unfair currency clause CHF. The Greek court's ruling at the Piraeus Court in a collective court trial, a verdict concerning 70,000 debtors in Greece, also found that the Eurobank in Greece has negotiated an unfair and thus a zero currency clause in the Swiss franc, which means that all these 70,000 debtors will receive compensation in the form of a difference in the course of the initial and the one charged. Here we learn yesterday that the first private court ruling in Slovenia was also passed in December, which gave a couple the value of a complete contract with the CCF currency clause. So, a married couple in Slovenia sued the bank for the unfair currency clause CHF and asked the court to determine that his contract was worthless. First, the Court of First Instance found that the contract was invalid. Following this, the case-law of the EU Court of Justice, which by verdict C 186/16, determined in detail what makes the currency clause unfair, after which the Supreme Court in Ljubljana amended the first-degree verdict and made a final ruling on the basis of which the couple from Slovenia would receive the difference of course. I must say that at the time of the lawsuit, the married couple owed another 72000 euros to the bank, but after the verdict, he owed the bank 17,000 more euros. And since there were still some payments to the annuity in the meantime, the couple will have to pay the bank a debt of 72000 euros at the time of the lawsuit, and it will be completed with its loan due to last until 2027. This is an example that the conversion in Croatia is neither near to what is obtained by a court ruling for the integrity of the contract nor close. Double the value of the contract with the exchange clause CHF and we really expect with great hope and faith the new decision of the High Court of Commerce, and this new decision of the High Court of Commerce, if it is positive against the debtors, will mean that all debtors, 120 thousand in Croatia, will be given the opportunity to get a complete difference in the course, but to that end the interest is added and tightened because it is an unfair bargaining. This isn't only good for debtors. What I'm talking about is extremely good for the Republic of Croatia. We know that banks, first of all, have initiated arbitration proceedings in Washington. I don't know if the Government of the Republic of Croatia is following these developments across the EU, does it monitor events in the EU court? But all these events, all of this European court practice is in favour of the Republic of Croatia. So, arbitration in Washington isn't a regular arbitration. Why isn't she regular? Because it's not the EU. The EU court has made it clear that loans with the CHF currency clause are unfair loans, because banks did not warn the debtors of the risks. I don't know if the government of the Republic of Croatia is using that tool it has in the EU court. And I finally invite all legal persons who have agreed to the CHF currency clause to report to me personally on the mail, Assembly email HYPERLINK "mailto:goran.lexic@sabor.hr" goran.lexic@sabor.hr. I will personally help them press charges against the banks and get their money. If Germany can do it, so can Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65725	The next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club respects Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65726	Gentlemen Parliamentarians. I asked for a break to talk and to meet the public about a positive and unusual event that took place here in these 19 days in this new year in eastern Croatia. Namely, in the east of Croatia, the living young man they call Vaso lives in Borovo, is 18 years old, is of a clear nature, likes to hang out, go out and especially sport. And I'd say there's almost nothing out of the ordinary in Vassin's life. But in 2016, Vassi got sick at practice. Many thought of anaemia, but a more detailed analysis found that he was suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia. With the cruel illness and with the great people at Rebro Hospital, he fought Vaso as a real hero and he and his parents. However, the situation has deteriorated and a bone marrow transplant outside the Republic of Croatia is needed to continue its struggle. Now the continuation of that struggle has won the amount. And the amount is 110,000 euros. Like most people in Croatia, Vassa's parents don't have that money. And that's when his sports buddies from the Vutex-Sloga Club and Vukovar came into the scene in '91. They decided to go into a big fight for their player. Since Vukovar and its surroundings are small, this action has been reported and many have been involved. At that time, the joint council of the municipality restricted the humanitarian action under the symbolic term "Together for Vasa". Individuals, companies, schools, kindergartens, businessmen, political parties, associations, sports clubs, people who have moved from the east of Croatia, and so each has given an opportunity. And what's most important in just three days' time we've collected almost all the money. This story from the east has a sequel because a charity concert for Vasa and Masha will be held soon. Because Masha is a girl, our fellow citizen who needs money, unfortunately for the same purpose, for kidney transplants in Padua. I felt it was necessary to get to know the public about this great, useful and human action that I hope as a final epilogue will have the healing of these two fellow citizens. More importantly, I believe that there are students, businessmen, chiefs and professors in eastern Croatia, parties, mayors, individuals who do not have to be marked by name, gender or nationality but should be designated as good people who are willing to give their little to those who need it, imagine for a naked life. It is important to know that in the east of Croatia, in addition to emigrating, unemployed, discrimination, intolerances exist and cases like this, only they remain undetected because they are spoken little and are not sensational. I wish your and your little Masha a healing, and everyone who participated in this noble action remains to honor and pride the indisputable fact that we have all done something humane and good together. We helped our fellow citizens quickly, immediately and without delay. It's a great honor for the people of eastern Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65727	Let's move on. Now it's on behalf of our esteemed colleague, Zeljko Lenart, on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65728	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would today, on behalf of the HSS Club, talk about the problems in Petrokemia, the problems that cyclically arise over the years, the Petrokemia that you lose and unfortunately the hostage of all these problems that occur and occur solely because of the price of natural gas that is raw material for Petrochemy and not energy. According to ECN Petrochemia DEMOS-HUS Petrochemy and Petrochemy Association, INA announced a gas delivery break, the debt reportedly amounts to 100 million kuna and allegedly agreed that the first gas company would take over the gas supply for the next week. And without gas, Petrochemy can work for 10 days because it has stored raw materials. But once Petrochemy stops, then the losses accumulate because only the trigger of the Petrokemia plant costs enormously. The Kutina Petrochemy spends over the year, during the constant production of 650 million cubic metres of natural gas and the largest underground warehouse around, in Croatia, a warehouse of just over 500 million. Then you can see how much the natural gas consumption of Petrokemia itself is. The gas price supplied to Kutina Petrochem is on average 20% higher than it is on the market and the transport price of that gas is 3-5 times higher than in EU countries. The price of fertilisers is formed on the free market, Petrochemia cannot sell 20% more expensive fertilisers than it has to sell at market prices and the artificial UREA fertiliser contains 80% of natural gas as raw material. Dear gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take up the real solution to this problem once and for all because this is about 1700 workers, their families, the whole region and the Republic of Croatia for which Petrochemy has great meaning. How much is the meaning of Petrochem which is the strategic industry in Croatia especially for agriculture, 1/3 of the total consumption of natural gas is Petrochemy, 1/4 of the total HZ Cargo transport is Petrochemy, 100% of the work of Sibenik port is Petrochemia, truck transport, this information cannot tell you exactly and means the impact of the termination of work or any earthquake in Petrochemia is very large on Croatia. When gas consumption in Petrochemia is 650 million cubic pounds, when we cut that price by 20%, if we cut the transport price to the EU, we would come to a figure of over 300 million kuna and Petrochemy is losing to somewhere 280 million kuna, then you can see why Petrochemy is losing it. I am wondering here and also members of the union whether Petrokemija Kutina wants to be thrown on her knees, to reduce its value, and today we can see that Petrochem Kutina shares among the biggest losers on the market, whether someone wants to buy it cheaply, whether it has anything to do with the president of HNS Mr. Vrdoljak who has ties to the PPD because of those who have applied for the capitalisation of Borealis Austria, INA and PPD, we ask ourselves who destroys Petrokemia, Croatian property, one of the largest industrial plants left in Croatia. The solution is for the government to ensure a bank guarantee or funds that Petrochemy can buy gas on the free market. I believe that this can be achieved very easily because if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has 65 million kuna for the purchase of mobile phones, and the debt of Petrochemy for gas is 100 million kuna, then I know and believe that there is enough money in the Republic that this problem can be very simply solved if it is the ruling wish, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65729	Now it's an independent club for Croatia and a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65730	Dear fellow Parliamentarians, I'd rather not talk today about this subject but I'm forced to do this. Here's Croatia joined NATO, in the EU, co-operated with the Visegrad Group, launched the Three Seas initiative, etc. It takes over the Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2020 but on a nonstop basis someone is pushing us to the Googles of the Balkans and these people are sitting here, sitting in the media, NGOs and elsewhere. What is our perception outside, who creates the perception of the Croatian state and who repairs it? You have an example. based in Zagreb, Balkan Insight, that is, in Zagreb, talks about clerofashists, Ustashas, the repetition of the new NDH, etc. They're here, who are these people? you have now the Adriatic Institute which has sent to all relevant addresses by the same topic of... to Nepal, such reports in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have Dubravka Ugreić, our famous writer who paid for the city of Zagreb to give lectures in Italy on the same topics, the city of Zagreb paid for it, and Croatian diplomacy accepted it. Serbia is in a constant intelligence and propaganda offensive against the Rh, when will we figure it out? The UN opens on the East River, soon the exhibition about Jasenovac opens. Kusturica is making a film about Jasenovac, which is funded by a generous Serbian imperialist. And today we pay, the Croatian government pays, pays someone to falsify the victims of the Jasenovac Memorial Park. So much has been written, said on this subject, you have series in the Croatian weekly, you have people who have talked about it, there are people who have been killed, dying in '45. since your natural death, you have falsified names, no one to stand up to. ... Croatian World Congress to propose establishing a Jasenovac Commission, I am not saying this because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No crime justifies another crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, in Croatia, social sciences are dying. What have these guys been doing up there in HAZU all these years? What were the media doing? Croatian teachers? That's what he's not talking about. Recently in Canada, they saved the face of Croats, the parishes of eastern Canada, raised $43,000 to build a monument in Ottawa that opens there at the end of this year, the Canadian government gave a million dollars for the project, we gave as much as we gave and all the countries from Baltic to Slovakia that suffered under that regime gave money for the project, I don't know what we did. Today, 1/5 people live under one-party communist systems. It's not a passe topic as some speak here, it's not a passe topic, when we figure it out. I recently mentioned 30,000 dead in Maribor when one here from this party said here and said I don't dig in the trash. Scary. And what kind of drink we have for our victims. We're total autists out there, how are we gonna fix that? Here, I read this from a Serbian writer, I didn't write it, this is what he said, a lie is a vision of Serbian patriotism and confirmation of our innate intelligence. We're lying creative, imaginative, inventive, it wasn't Glasnović, it was one of their heads. If, as we continue, we are free to put on this Faculty of Political Sciences, to write the history of Mr Mesic, Manulić and Edo Majk. Otherwise, I don't see an action plan for us to get out, to defend against this black propaganda. I'm amazed how little they know, students come here every day, they have no idea about anything. It's a total failure of the general knowledge system. They didn't even hear about French school, the conflict of civilizations, they don't care, and they get all the information from Wikipedia, and who writes Wikipedia? The same, intellectual terrorists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65731	Let's move on, Advocacy Bridge of Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is for disrespecting the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Here he would point out that I asked a question, 15.11. means 2 months ago by the rules of procedure the ministry should answer within 30 days. That's right, business. Well, here, and President of the Parliament, he would point out that respect is meant by parliamentary deputies, because there is parliamentary democracy here and the ministry would have to give answers in time. That's exactly what I'm going to talk about, because of the silence of the administration, and this is about the bankruptcy procedure of the Dalmatian woman, i.e. Dalmatin women, claims of Dalmatinian workers, and so on. the worker, because we all see that we're all emphasising here, so we've had a break around the HNS, so I expect them to urinate on the government and the finance minister, that the claims of the Dalmatian workers can be made by workers, mostly by women who have been terrorized, who have not received their salaries earned, who have worked in the textile industry in the blue Dalmatians, to be seen about it. It is not enough to act elitistly from this position, and workers have not received their earned salaries of 10.5 million kuna since 2009. So many claims together have the city of Sinj and their company owned. On the city council, I suggested the city of Sinj, which was adopted, that the city of Sinj would give up its claims. Also, I've asked the Ministry of Finance, but unfortunately because of the disrespect of the Parliament, it's less important for me as parliamentary representatives, but these workers, I didn't get any answers. What's worse, silence confirms the rule that we have a bankruptcy law that's disastrous. Because, i.e. Different creditors will be charged, the state will be charged, however, the workers will be left unaccompanied. The Dalmatinka was sold at the 9th, 8th competition in 2009 at 24.5 million kuna. The 15.6-term deadlines have been set, however, the buyer has requested a postponement, provided a guarantee of 2.5 million kuna. Fortunately, he asked for a continuance in this case, because we simply wouldn't get an answer within 60 days, but the ministry would be charged. She's been in trouble for 60 days. It's a bankruptcy manager, a bankruptcy judge approved, and I expect this question to be answered. If it could be forgiven by the various tycoons that robbed these companies, I don't see any reason, and there's no reason that Dalmatian workers don't get that money. The same case was with Kamenski workers, who did not receive 10% of their earned salaries. It's a terror over workers who worked in the most difficult industry, the textile industry. I expect the Ministry of Finance to respond, loud and clear. And it's not just the Dalmatian case, everything that starts with Dalmatia, Dalmatia wine, it's recently been working here. Workers mostly, workers too. Which offer a concrete solution, withdrawing the lawsuits of their assets that serve the Republic of Croatia to collect their claims. The government can't hear them. Why can't the government hear them? Where big bells ring, little bells don't ring. Don't worry about the torture and crying of children from these workers, not worry about Minister Maric, finance minister for those children, he cares more about meetings with Todorovic when he was excluded. It is forgotten to talk about and how to solve Todorovic's problem. Once again, this is a cry, because of the violence against these women, against those families, against those children, on an unfair bankruptcy law, which we must change, and I will personally, I am trying, I am working on it, to change it, because I can't remain workers without swearing. And free from the Ministry of Finance, to collect their earnings. Well, pay is basic by God, by man, by law. These are their salaries, for their children, they're the real women who are surrounded, that's violence against those women, who were exploited worse than in Africa 200 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65733	Thank you, too. So, as for the government's non-response, there's support, from me as president... Yes, yes, yes, yes, and we will today, during the day, instruct the Government to answer parliamentary questions, which must be answered within a certain time limit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, here's a colleague of the Hill on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65734	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have a lot of problems in Croatia, I have in some way specialized these life-related problems and the work of pensioners. And I have to say, we often change systems, but uncoordinated. Since 2014, pensioners who have gone into retirement can work for up to 4 hours, can enter into a contract with the employer if they need to work and work for up to 4 hours a day, so they can receive a pension and receive a salary. Of course they don't take a place for young people. The employer will decide on them if they only need such characteristics of workers, or experience. Another form of work, i.e. another form of work, is the copyright fee. The third form of work is a contract on the work that received additional burden from the tax code's novels. Since the beginning of 2017, if pensioners work under a contract of work, then they pay half of their health and half of their pension contributions, half of their health and half their pension contributions. Well, if that's the case, then I'm asking one question, why do craftsmen have to shut down their crafts when they retire? Isn't that counterproductive for the Croatian society where the turns die. Or they could retire neatly, retirement not any pension, transfer the craft, do not have to shut it down that the craft exists, or they can still earn a kuna in that craft because their skills, these skills are no longer on the market and their departure, and by shutting down those crafts, the entire activities are being extinguished. Do we have to insist that someone has to shut down the crafts? We have to remind ourselves that these craftsmen have not been making huge contributions. In most cases, they have the right to a minimum, or minimum pension. They couldn’t use living as company workers during their working days because if she was sick, she wouldn’t make a living for bread. They couldn't use the employment agency's right, because they were thought to manipulate them. So they are, in some ways, second-class workers in Croatian society, and now we're still asking them to close the crafts to receive a pension and a mostly lowest pension depending on the years of the internship. Does it have to be like that? I listened recently to a smart man, the founder of a low food chain in Europe, who said that when countries lose their craftsmanship and family agriculture, they lose their identity, and when they lose individual states, then in the finals they will lose the whole of Europe. So he won't even have his identity. So, and the identity of a society, the identity of a nation is very much needed. So I appeal to all those to coordinate, so both the pension and the ministry responsible for crafts, to coordinate, to find a way to continue, to have a continuation of that craft, that those who go into retirement don't have to shut down the crafts, that the longer these crafts live. Maybe one of the young people decides to work in such a craftsmanship. Perhaps they can find opportunities to transfer the craft with their obligations to the heirs, not to let the Priory go. So a little flexibility in our society wouldn't do us any good. However, I think we could use a little coordination between several ministries. I think this was one tenth in a row of questions from people who are craftsmen who are getting ready to retire and in some way appeal to us to make a system so that they can continue to work by paying all their obligations and with regard to contributions and taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65735	Thank you. We're going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65736	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it's very effective this morning to come for a pay phone, throw some topic, pick up the front page of the portal and so on and unfortunately everything remains unsolved and it's our biggest problem and it's something that shows the greatest irresponsibility of those who act like it. Why do I say that? Yesterday we had here in this High House debate about the State Property Management Act. And when you take some of the debates that came from this pay phone today, they were the ideal debates for yesterday when he was Minister of Management, Ministry of State Property Management, to ask these questions. Why? Because these questions are repeated year by year in continuity. We want Petrokemija, Petrokemia Protection Station back in 2002, the first, and then the recapitalisation in 2000, I think it was the seventh of 650 million when the state turned its claims into capital and thus brought the balance to zero. Or we want to last year when last year, when elections in the election campaign were similar to the one now Petrochemia is not supplied with gas, the Ministry of Finance should give a guarantee. But very interestingly, it happens exactly. So, there's one systemic problem that can only be solved in a way that, when it comes to the exploitation of hydrocarbons, when it comes to concessions, some questions need to be asked among other things. Likewise, when we talk about fees, when we talk about the law on bankruptcy, then also the business issue and this great concern under quotes for employees, then we need to install it into the bankruptcy law. Why? So if we don't install it into these laws, the government can't practically solve it. Or a key document, the key leverage for economic policy management is the budget. Well, if colleagues are so generous, they tend to some things, so let them suggest it when the budget is made, so let them increase the government budget deficit by a billion and a half, two kunas and say that's it. Then we'd be serious. But I'm saying this points to something that some of life's topics don't suffer political approach, why? Because they just come back, they're living life, they live with all of us, no matter who they're in the middle of, you'll always find that something similar is happening in your midst. Or what my colleague Hrelja was saying, he's practically the only one left of those looking for a break here. When we discussed the Law on Turning, when we discussed the Pension Insurance Act, we should have put these two topics on the table. So you remember, my colleague Hrelja, when it was an amendment to the Law of Rotation, I defended that name of the club 14 amendments from the Chamber of craftsmen who were thus only obtained because the craftsmen had no idea what they needed. Someone from the office knows better than they do. Although most and then colleagues in the ruling coalition agreed that the proposals of craftsmen were life-altering, they were also the ones guaranteeing the survival of the crafts. Look, every single one of us finds himself in a situation where he needs a master to fix something in his house, and there's no master, why? Because no craftsmanship, no more education, no more masters... They will cover it in every way, they help in every way but these are the topics to be discussed when the laws are here at the plenary session and then let's read the law and then show that we read the law and that in this and that article we suggest that it be built in and that we do so because that's what we're going to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So yesterday, we proposed to Maric that, not matter which article, install it and how it is managed by companies in crisis and how the state should discuss it and then add that when we discuss here the report on the use of support, then we would say that we are responsible, but in this way, this is simply collecting points, getting 15, 20 minutes or 2, 3 hours on the front page on the portal and this story is passing, but unfortunately those people who are all affected by this, workers of Petrochemy, unfortunately if the government does not help them, these are not all the same stories that will benefit neither benefit nor will the government find a model or a way because you know that you can't give a guarantee or support to anyone who doesn't comply with EU directives, I find myself illegal or illegal, however you want to go back. Therefore, when we make laws, then we need to think about what the problems are about us and try to put those problems into that law, and then finally we will say that we are really doing this because many colleagues who discussed the Law on Managing State Assets were just acting that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u65737	Thank you, too. We are now done with discussions after the break, we are back on the agenda, the first point is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual support of the host state, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 255 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Defence Committee, so I would now ask that the representative of the proposing, respected Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence give an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67700	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives. So before you there are laws confirming the memorandum of consent between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual provision of support to the host country as a final draft of the law. The letter of agreement was signed in Bucharest on 12 September 2017 following the completion of the negotiation procedure and signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic, also signed their Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Ion Ciolacuo on behalf of the Romanian Agreement. Otherwise, Croatia has 30 of these and similar signed memos, most often on bilateral agreements or memos between the Republic of Croatia and other partner countries or memos that Croatia has joined or signed and most often on the country's memos of the host country and the Supreme Allied Command for Europe. The Memorandums of Understanding shall lay down the basic provisions, conditions and procedures for the mutual provision of support by the Host State to any party as they participate in operations and training in the territory of the State of the other Party. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the entry into force of the Memorandum of Understanding establishing an international legal framework for further mutual military cooperation through logistics, financial and legal support during activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and Romania. What should also be pointed out in particular is the fact that the implementation of this Memorandum Confirmation Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget since the provisions of the Ministry of Defence through regular activities are also financed by such activities. I hope you'll support the law in question on confirming the memos and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67701	I thank the Secretary of State. Before we go any further, we will introduce a practice which is to welcome the guests who are coming to us, with us today the students of the Blata High School from Blato, so please welcome them. Do any of the representatives of the board want to get involved in the debate? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, so the debate has been withdrawn. Then we go to another club, it's the club of representatives GLAS and HSU, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, unfortunately she's not here either. So we move on to SDP's club and respected colleague Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67702	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the Secretary of State and I would like to say that we will support this bill and memorandum, because this is something that we will say to the mandatory character in the development of defence cooperation with our partners, logistics support, mutual, for joint exercises, training and God forbid some activity, certainly good because that is why partners serve each other. Mr. President, allow me another sentence, two, about one thing that may be coming out of this topic, so there's a lot of talk about hybrid warfare. I would like our colleagues from the HNS who are part of the ruling coalition to take care of when, and today we have heard them talking about the Istanbul Convention, when it comes to this agenda, not to be hybrid. That there are no restrictions in it, which will be completely devoid of its purpose and purpose. Here, thank you very much and apologize for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67703	You know this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but good. ... Yeah yeah, it's above all that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, the second debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67704	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Honorable Secretary of State Ivić, fellow MPs. Proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act, on the consent between the Government of the Republic of Romania and the Government of Romania on mutual support of the host country, which is important for the Republic of Croatia today, for its security policy and foreign political relations, and that is why it is necessary to put into a certain context its adoption. The Republic of Romania, last year, marked 25 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, and the two countries' common interests as well as similar views of security challenges have been crystallised during that period. The two countries are fostering good bilateral relations and dynamic political and diplomatic dialogue, and significantly improved cooperation within the sector, such as transport, education, justice and European funds. In front of these interests, the two countries also have common objectives, which are to continue to contribute to the work and success of NATO alliances and the EU, and of course to the stability of Southeast Europe. Good relations between the two countries are also visible in the area of defence, which also have great potential for strengthening, as Romanian and Croatian soldiers have been participating in NATO missions in Kosovo and Afghanistan for years, and have been participating in a mission in Poland since recently, with the aim of strengthening NATO's presence in Eastern Europe. The Republic of Romania and the Republic of Romania created a framework for co-operation in the area of defence in 2 occasions, first on 3 November 1997, by signing a military co-operation agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Romania and the Ministry of People's Defence, and then on 27 April 2005 by signing a protocol between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Romania and the Ministry of People's Defence, on the cooperation and training of military and civilian personnel. Thanks to these quality foundations, good relations have developed between the two countries, which ultimately led to the need for further enlargement and an increase in the scope of defence co-operation. The need culminated in the signing of this memorandum, on the agreement between the government of the Republic of Romania and the government of Romania, and establishing an international legal framework in the relations between Croatia and Romania, for further mutual military co-operation. The application of the Memorandum of Understanding will allow Croatia and Romania to access a wide range of logistics resources to support bilateral exercises and joint deployments faster access to a wide range of strategic infrastructures, simpler and faster access to training areas and facilities, in support of joint training and training. What is particularly important is the aspect and possibility that is realized by this memorandum, especially in the world of numerous natural disasters, which have hit us in recent years and expectations of effective and rapid support in the event of natural disaster and emergency situations. The adoption and subsequent application of the Memorandum Confirmation Act will facilitate the mutual provision of support between the parties to carry out operations and training and will also ensure that each party takes the greatest possible effort in accordance with national priorities in order to meet the requirements of the other party, in relation to the provision, support of goods and services in the peace period, emergency situations, crises and conflicts. The benefits of this memo are multiple for both countries, for the Republic of Croatia, they are reflected in greater and better training opportunities and training of our armed forces in significant logistics resources, but also in support of emergency situations or natural disasters. In addition to these advantages, the memorandum will also contribute to joint efforts to strengthen regional security and stability, and as member states both NATO and the EU should be the bearers and pillars of that process. For these reasons and for the numerous advantages of this law, which confirms the HDZ Club's memorandum will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67705	Thank you, since there are no more reports, I am concluding the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual provision of support for the host state, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 255. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 124 votes to pass the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual provision of support to the host country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67708	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. The Republic of Croatia currently has 62 contracts to avoid double taxation and negotiations to conclude new contracts with a number of countries are under way. The initial basis for negotiations in the conclusion of a double taxation agreement for income and property taxes as well as in most countries is the own models that each country develops according to its own tax policy and are based on a model of a contract to avoid double taxation of income taxes and on the property of an economic cooperation and development organisation of the OECD and the UN. Negotiations for the conclusion of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of avoidance of income tax have been held and successfully completed in two rounds of negotiations and subsequent additional alignments between the professional bodies of the two states and diplomatic contacts. After the conclusion of the negotiation procedure, the texts of the contract in question were agreed and ready to be signed. Since there was a significant interest in the economic sector to conclude contracts in agreement with representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, it is agreed that due to the urgency of access to separate contract signing in Zagreb... by authorised representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to this, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Zdravko Marić signed both maps in Zagreb in June 2017, so contracts were then forwarded to the other Contracting Party, or to the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who signed the same in September last year. In view of the above, it is considered that the contract was signed on 29 September 2017. The contract regulates ways to avoid double taxation of income and profits. In the opening part of the contract, the definitions referred to in the other provisions of the contract are contained. One of the most important is the definition of residents that avoid double taxation of Croatian residents. The contract allows Croatian construction and similar companies not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan if these works last less than 12 months. The Croatian companies are also providing services, including... enables them not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan if such services are provided for less than 6 months in any 12-month period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taxation of profits from business is generally carried out by the State of residence of the company except in cases of permanent establishment. It will also be possible for Croatian companies benefiting from the use of ships, vehicles for road transport or aircraft in international transport, paying taxes on such profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The contract lowers the rates on passive income compared to the existing rates prescribed by domestic laws so that interest is taxed at a rate of 10% at the source and copyright fees also at a rate of 10% at the source. In the case of dividend taxation, the tax rate per deduction is determined up to 5%, if the actual beneficiary is a company in which at least 25% of the company’s assets are directly owned and in all other cases the tax rate is provided for at the deduction of 10%. Ways to eliminate double taxation as equal treatment with contracting countries' societies in various tax situations are prescribed. The joint agreement process is the possibility that any emerging problem or threatening case of double taxation of the state will be directly negotiated without the participation of diplomatic channels, which will also need to contribute to the speedy and accelerated resolution of possible problems. The article on the exchange of information is an effective means of combating tax avoidance. In view of these solutions, we believe that the contract will be an incentive for foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia and for the mutual exchange of goods and services and will therefore affect both countries' overall economic activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia confirms international contracts requiring the adoption or amendment of laws, international military and political contracts and international contracts that are financially bound by the Republic of Croatia. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Treaty’) provides for the conclusion of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the Treaty’). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for the adoption of this law under emergency procedure is set out in Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in other particularly justified state reasons. Namely, given the reasons set out in point 2. The proposal for a contract validation law, given that the agreed mechanisms of the contract in question and in order to intensify the economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan, are necessary as soon as possible to create the conditions for the entry into force of the contract in question. It is estimated that there is an interest for the Republic of Croatia to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to create assumptions that the contract, in accordance with its provisions in the relations of the two countries, enter into force. On the date of entry into force of the Treaty Confirmation Act, the contract in question shall not be in force but shall, in accordance with the provisions laid down therein, enter into force 30 days after the date of receipt, be notified by diplomatic means by which one State Party informs the other that its internal legal requirements for the entry into force of this Treaty have been met and the information on its entry into force will be published in accordance with the provisions of Article 30(3). Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The contract will also produce a legal effect in relation to the income achieved from 1 January of the following year compared to the year in which it entered into force. Here, given everything we're saying, we're proposing to pass and vote this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67709	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. A HDZ representative club and a respected colleague, Ante Bacic, have at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67710	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Here we have before us the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax with a final draft of the law as the State Secretary has met us. The basis of this law is precisely an international contract concluded between the Ministry of Finance, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kazakhstan in June, i.e. September 2017, which passed the consultation and our Committees on Finance and Budget, as well as the Committee on Legislatives. The Secretary of State has also mentioned what is important to us that the Republic of Croatia implements 61 such contracts, and with many countries it is now in preparation to sign a double tax avoidance contract. This particular risk of double taxation and arises when two countries have the right to tax our income. In the event that we live in one Member State, and in another we work or if we are referred to shorter work abroad or if we live and seek a job abroad, and we have transferred unemployment benefits from the country of origin or in the case of retirement in one country, and we receive a pension in another. In that case, we will always be subject to the tax rules of the country in which we have a residence. Fortunately, these are exactly the kind of contracts that facilitate tax cases, tax policies, i.e. These contracts usually protect us from double taxation. On the basis of many bilateral tax contracts, the amount of tax we paid in the country where we work is subtracted from the amount of tax we would pay in the country where we have only residence. In another case, the income we made in the country where we work could only pay taxes in that country and it would be exempt from taxes in the country where we have a residence. It should be noted that the tax rates in the countries concerned are different. If the tax rate in the state where we work is higher, it's also the final rate we'll finally pay. It is in this Treaty that the basic definitions which are in accordance with the Law on International Law are also contained. It's important to highlight this particular definition of residents. Simplification is a natural and legal person treated as a domestic by the law of a particular country. It will also enable Croatian companies carrying out international transport of goods, paying taxes on profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia. The contract also lowers rates for passive income compared to existing rates. Interests shall be taxed at a rate of 5%, copyright fees, taxing dividends shall be set at a tax rate of 5% if the actual beneficiary is a company in which at least 25% of the company's capital is directly owned by a dividend. The contract itself also lists all cases of double taxation and will bring benefits to our economic employees. It is important to highlight exactly Articles 24 and 25 of the joint settlement and exchange of notifications, which is ultimately the goal of just concluding such contracts, which is simply to bypass all diplomatic and consular bodies that take up more time. And simply the whole tax problem of our two states and economies operating in the areas of the Republic of Croatia and Kazakhstan will directly solve all problems through our tax institutions and tax authorities, not diplomatically. The Treaty will improve the conditions of mutual exchange of goods and services, and increase the level of overall economic activity of both states, which is also the reason for this urgent process of adoption, which I think is understandable and we all supported. It is important to stress that for the past two years, the trade itself has not crossed between our two countries, it has not crossed 10 million euros, since we have exported about tens of millions of euros, imported some 100,000 euros of goods from Kazakhstan, which is important to highlight because it is an extremely small trade in goods and I think that this contract and this kind of activity by the Government and the Ministry of Finance will just improve economic activity with even distant countries, but the countries are very much of our own interest, especially our businessmen. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67711	Thank you, colleagues, Bacic. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm the one who's locking them up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously 123 votes for the passed Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67714	Dear President, honourable MPs and advocates, the reason for this regulation is an increasing number of experts trained to provide psychotherapy treatment, and the position of the psychotherapy profession has not yet been regulated by legal frameworks. Psychotherapy is currently regulated only by a rule on specialist training of medicine as a subspecialisation of psychiatry, and there is currently no special regulation that would determine the conditions and methods of performing the activities of psychotherapy, conditions and type of professionals who can deal with psychotherapy and the responsibility of persons who deal with psychotherapy since the rule on specialist training of medical doctors is not regulated, these issues are not regulated. According to the Association of Psychotherapeutic Associations of Croatia, the number of educated experts in the health profession who use some of the psychiatric methods or techniques in their work is significantly higher than the number of psychiatrists who use psychotherapy in their work as a treatment method and their ratio is 80% to 20% in favour of health professionals. The aim of this regulation is to regulate psychotherapy as an independent activity which, under the prescribed conditions, could also be carried out by persons who do not have a health education. Legal regulation and its compliance with European standards will guarantee a quality level of service for this profession, which is the main objective of helping people improve the quality of life. The adoption of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy would regulate the affairs of psychotherapy as a monastery of activities that require the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapy in such a way as to prescribe conditions for the exercise of psychotherapy., that these jobs can also be carried out by unhealthy workers under prescribed conditions, the issue of work permits, the organisation of permanent education, the resolution of ethical and delinthological issues, and the introduction of supervision of the work of a psychotherapist, which is not the case so far. Psychotherapy would be defined as treatment of the problem of emotional nature by psychological means in which an educated person deliberately establishs a professional relationship and uses professional procedures to remove, modify or mitigate the intensity of existing symptoms for the purpose of applying impaired behavioural schemes and fostering positive personality development. In view of all of the above, psychotherapy should be regulated by a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67715	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the Honorable Miro Bulj, since he has no loss of speech, so we move on to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Honored Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades and colleagues, gentlemen of the ministry. The SDP club supports the good intentions of the promoter who wants to regulate an extremely important area, which is the field of psychotherapy and patient work, but in the same sentence, I must say on behalf of the club and express hope that the minister with his authority but, regardless of the fact that he does not have it and heeding the promise she made to the Health Committee yesterday, he does everything in his power to make a proposal for a law until the final adoption in some important elements of transformation and necessary improvements. There's a lot of reasons why we should support the adoption of this law, he's here on the side of our club welcome. It is necessary to regulate this area and we are aware of it, it is necessary to regulate it as an independent activity, it is simply necessary to introduce rules of the game, stop the mess, deal with the black market and the state of the sea, that is its task, to take care of the protection of the vulnerabilities of society that need this kind of assistance. It must protect them by a good law, so we must not pass a law that will further complicate things and relationships. That wouldn't be good, but I don't think so. Secondly very important, we must accept the fact that in this area they are already doing unhealthy professions. Apparently, about 80% of psychotherapy activities are already doing professions today, such as psychologists, social pedagogues, rehabilitators, etc. They're using different methods, reportedly there's almost 500 of them around the world, so different methods, working techniques. To deal with this activity and we know it from experience, in practice some, means actually years and years of investment in themselves, 3 to 5 years to education, training, which is long, hard and very expensive. And that's why we have to try to get the law to govern those who work on themselves, who have learned, who have invested in themselves, their knowledge, just like that, we have to enable them to work on their own and we have to make such a distraction to enable licenses but to operate according to the rules of the profession. So to problemise at this point the work of non-medical or unhealthy professions in the psychotherapy activity would in some way be a step back and let's not do it. We at the SDP club are not going to do it because the need for psychotherapy by patients or clients has long gone beyond the framework of the health system, we are all aware of that. And let's be honest, and let's say we don't have enough educated doctors who want to deal with this activity, and we don't have enough money in the system. However, some parts of the law really need to be clarified and better defined. On the Health Committee yesterday, we spoke very comprehensively about these parts of the law. There should be no room for ambiguity and doubt in this law. We agree with all those who hold that it is necessary to clearly distinguish who is in Article 5 of the psychotherapist and who is an advisory therapist. Among other things, we mean here and the second paragraph, which mentions a completed study of pro-pedeutics that doesn't even exist in the Republic of Croatia, but well, that's not the primary thing. We have concluded on the committee that this item must go to the advisory therapist's category. Maybe it doesn't have to be done absolutely by this law. Maybe some things should be given to the chamber's jurisdiction. When it comes to doctors, the law does not prescribe what they have to do, so it may be understandable when some say that they should not do so for this activity. But we make sure that the rules of the game are well determined by the chamber. As a club, we believe that particular attention should be paid to those parts of the law relating to the issue of licenses and membership in the chamber as many times as I have mentioned. The work of the chamber is extremely important. Like I said he's the one who, she's the one who prescribes the rules of the game. And finally, the chamber is also responsible for who gets the license to work. So, who has competences, skills and skills for working with patients on their own, that's a serious thing. It is therefore totally unacceptable that this activity is not worth what the Bible is for other professions. It's just not good. Therefore, Article 15(2) states that the licence is issued for unlimited time. Well, that's not acceptable. We just have to change that if we're serious. Why? Well, doctors don't have that right, so physiotherapists don't have that right, and nurses don't have that right. Why don't nurses have a permanent pass? Why don't psychologists have a permanent pass? Well, look, there's a reason why it's like that. I'm stressing again it's an extremely important and serious matter. We ask a valid question about how to monitor permanent improvement in this activity? We need to be aware that we're doing a precedent, a very serious precedent, and I would dare say on behalf of the SDP Club and not allowable precedent. If all the other professions I was talking about are susceptible to so-called. Relicence, so the chamber obliges them to perfect themselves and to give evidence of it. The licence is not permanent, the license is renewed and you must prove that you have earned a re-authorised license, or a work license. We can't let that happen. Such a failure can't happen in this law. This issue is important for one more precedent, which is that membership in the chamber is not mandatory. Now I ask you if membership is not mandatory in the chamber who will oversee the work of all those involved in this activity? How did we figure that out? Who's going to set the rules of the game if you're not a member of the chamber? So then you don't subject to the rules and laws that you pass, by the laws conditionally speaking, of course, by the chamber. As I said, it's a precedent again, because doctors must be members of the chamber. Psychologists must be members of the chamber. Look out for all the professions it's a commitment, and for this one it's not. Can you imagine what that would mean in practice and what that would mean in the field? Would we fix the situation we have or would we make it worse? And we need to be aware that this is one activity that is growing more and more, obviously the needs for it are growing and greater. This is one activity where you make a very good living and let it. We don't have anything like a club against it, but we do it by the rules of the profession. It is therefore important that what applies to other professions, which work with patients, are also valid for this one. The opening of dangerous precedents takes responsibility that things will not go in the direction we wanted. In the direction we wanted, and we want to solve the gray economy, regulate this activity and introduce order. So the chamber monitors the development of its doctors, the chamber monitors the development of its psychologists. I ask you best please try to offer us until next reading some other solution. You may be troubled by the fact that psychologists have their own chamber, and they'll be dealing with this activity, so now how? They should be members of both chambers. I don't know, figure out some way to pick out which chamber they're going to enter. But this is not a good solution at all. I think on behalf of the club I touched the key things that bother us. Our support for this law, or the intensity to regulate the area, is not at all controversial. In principle, we support this law, but we warn that we are expecting in these important segments, so a clearer definition of the work of psychotherapists, advisory therapists and the issue of the chamber, the issue of permanent improvement and acquittals. It just has to be solved. There are, of course, challenges, I haven't touched that, and the very expression of psychotherapy is whether it's the happiest solution because we know very well what the word psychotherapy means, so therapy implies and implies. It's not just talking to a patient, working in groups, etc. It implies some other things. There are countries that have dealt with this in a very good way. It's still not too late to, like, England, yet it's not too late to study what they've done, to look up to them. Anyway, on behalf of the club, I'm asking you to seriously consider our suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67717	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67718	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The representatives of the SDP have commented on Article 15 of this Act, paragraph 2. You have instructed a pass to be issued for unlimited time. However, you have not read the full paragraph 2. It says: “The license is issued for unlimited time under a condition of permanent completion.” So there is a condition, not that the permit is issued for unlimited time, so no one asks. So I have no interest or motive to defend this Law, but you simply have to correctly specify items and respect the context and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67719	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67720	Thank you very much. I didn't just read what you thought was right for me. It's not true. You have to look at every article and item in the context of the whole law, so the truth is, you said it well. It says: “The license is issued for unlimited time, and I have quoted it, and I have missed it on condition of permanent improvement. ” Now, if you've read the law, then answer me a very simple question about how this permanent improvement will be controlled? Who will be controlled by the Croatian Parliament, you, who? I guess the chamber. But the law goes on to say that membership in the chamber is not mandatory. Well, that's what I was talking about when I was a young colleague, and those two things are the opposite. You must be a member of the chamber. It must be mandatory, because the chamber prescribes game rules, so the chamber will say you can get a license, you can't get a license. But if the membership in the chamber is voluntary we do not have the elements, we do not have the elements that people who are going to deal with this activity in any way put into order. You understand? You can't. This is collapsing, and I quote very well what I quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67721	Thank you. We will now move on to the next club of representatives, and that is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Celic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67722	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For many years, preparations for the adoption of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, whose adoption was in fact initiated by the Association of Psychotherapeutic Associations of Croatia in order to regulate services offered without any control on the market by opening up the possibility of unqualified persons who do not have adequate education to conduct psychological counselling services. What first comes into the eyes is that the ministry in charge of this bill, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, is completely illogical. This should be under the Ministry of Health. And the bill was first addressed to the Ministry of Health in 2010. The idea of the Minister of Health at the time was to regulate this area by a regulation, but the regulation cannot establish a new activity. Then the Minister of Social Policy took over the part that was not done and now the current administration from the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy passed this law before us. And I think it's a good thing that this bill came to the constituencies, although I believe that it will see major changes between the first and second readings in order to be adopted and to have a consistent consensus and positions and opposition because I think it's a fact that this area needs to be regulated. In one way, we can combine this area with the legalization of illegal construction, so at this point there are a lot of those who offer psychological counselling services, or psychotherapy as they call it, with this law will be a significant part of those who provide these services but still cannot be all covered by what is in this first reading in some way indirectly implicates that fact. So if it was a beach house, of course she couldn't be legalized. This is what the esteemed representative Jerkovic said regarding the definition of psychotherapist, so in Article 5(2), paragraph 2, where after the definition of who can be a psychotherapist states does not meet the conditions laid down in subparagraph 1 of this article but has completed a study of pedeutics. This means that, for example, a professor of Croatian language and literature, an art historian who has an education of at least 4 years in one of the psychotherapy directions, can be a psychotherapist. Well, he can't. There are health professionals, there are health workers. The fact is that psychotherapy is performed not only by doctors now but also by psychologists, and if it is necessary to expand that area, so other than medicine and psychology to social work, to educational rehabilitation, social pedagogy and logopedics, I think that it should certainly include nurses of high professional training who have completed a university degree in university studies, teachers of sororitys who have completed a professional part of psychotherapy so that they too can be called a psychotherapist. Another nonsens, I'm a psychiatrist who finished six years of medicine, five years specializing in psychiatry within 700 hours of psychotherapy, I'm not a psychotherapist. So it's also a big challenge, not because it's about me, but because I think if a psychiatrist isn't a psychotherapist after so much education, I don't know how he can be someone who's not a health care professional before that defined as a psychotherapist. As regards regulation across certain European countries, the introduction of this bill said 17 countries regulated the area, however, according to the Austrian Institute of Health, only 7 EU countries regulated it and it is very, very different. So you have from very restrictive to very liberal or if you want from very flexible to very limited. It is interesting to say the Netherlands, which is a model of liberalism, it is very, very restrictive, so only psychologists, psychiatrists and doctors, other doctors who are not psychiatrists can start training from cognitive-bihoveral therapy, after training these psychotherapists are enrolled in a national register that is prescribed by law and managed by a competent body by the government. So they totally regulated it at the state level. The Croatian law is closest to the Austrian law, however, the Austrian law also has its limits that do not exist in this bill. For example, in the Austrian law, the 23 psychiatric directions that have been verified and recognised and which are covered by this law as most other countries in Europe regulate this area in a way that defines 4 or 5 groups, such as the Belgian law defines psychoanalytic and psychodynamic-oriented psychotherapy, cognitive-bihoveral therapy, systemic and family-oriented psychotherapy and humanistic and experienced psychotherapy. The German law, which is not a law on psychotherapy, but a law on psychotherapy that is again restrictive, defines it at the very beginning and clearly stresses that psychotherapy is forbidden because it is a matter of authority and the question is certain which at this point I believe very rare in the Republic of Croatia that persons who are engaged in psychological counselling and who are not doctors are prescribed psychopharmacotherapy, which we know is very, very dangerous. The German law also distinguishes medical and psychological psychotherapists. Medical psychotherapists are exclusively doctors and what should also be incorporated into this law is the distinction between a psychotherapist for adults and a psychotherapist for children and adolescents. It kind of coordinates with the distinction between childhood adolescent and adjudicated psychiatry but it's very, very important because knowledge of child psychosexual and generally psychological development is very different and it involves additional education and I think it's necessary to make a distinction between children's adolescent therapists compared to psychotherapists who work with adults. As far as the law itself is concerned, purely new technicalally, I think it would be more correct to be a Croatian psychotherapy chamber, not a Croatian mental therapist chamber. Article 2 of the 2006 Directive mentions part of psychotherapy services, which are provided as an economic activity outside the health system. I think it's more right here to talk in part of psychological counseling, because this directive does not mention psychotherapy or psychotherapy services anywhere, but it does talk about counselling, legal, tax, and psychological counselling. So I think, in the spirit of that directive, it's more appropriate to have it in part of psychological counseling. So, from my presentation, it is clear that, above all, certain terms should be defined, limited and made a clearer distinction between who is a psychotherapist and who is an advisory therapist. Also in this paragraph, second subparagraph 3. I think it is not sufficiently defined if spoken over a period of at least 4 years in some of the psychotherapy directions. So my specialty is five years, eight hours a day. These four years of psychotherapy education, they're educations that are cornered. They happen on weekends and they're not educations that last eight hours a day. It is therefore necessary to write how many ECTS points are and how many hours are theoretical and how many are practical teaching. That's how certain laws define it. If we are already, we have some templates from certain countries, then what needs to be applied well. And let's say the German health reform law, which started at the end of 2014. Therefore, the Association of Psychotherapy Associations of Germany has given consent to the state that together the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science launch a special study in psychotherapy, which will be at university level. So for those people who have the conditions to be able to deal with psychotherapy, they're going to have to finish a university study, which will take a minimum of 4 years from psychotherapy. It is the future, I believe in Croatia as well. I'll come back here again. There's a study of pedestics. There's no such thing as that in the Republic of Croatia. There are supposed to be some indications, that the preparation is in Croatian studies, but there is no study of prodeutics in the Republic of Croatia, and it is mentioned in this law. So the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the first reading of this law, but we expect some changes. We welcome the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, which took this responsibility, although I stress that, in my opinion, this is the primary issue of the Ministry of Health and I believe that between the first and second readings, important changes will take place, which will ultimately improve the quality of services, which concern the spectrum of psychological counselling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67723	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67724	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Celic, I almost agree with everything you said, I think as a colleague, Jerkovic, that you have made a good contribution to the future second reading, which will be better quality. What I just wanted to relate to you, when you were talking about the chronology of the adoption of this law, that it was really absurd that this law was passed already in 13 years, that the adoption of this law started, so it continued in 2010 really in the Ministry of Health, but it was transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs, for one logical reason. So it's not illogical that it was brought by the Ministry of Social Policy, it wasn't passed because the elections were in 2015 and it remained in the drawer of the current ministry. So why is it logical that this law is passed by the Ministry of Social Policy for the simple reason that it's in the health care system, where this job does psychiatry, especially those who are educated psychotherapy, something psychologists, how regulated it is. And there's no problem. The problem is this very non-medical part where the gray market rules, where people actually appear to help many who have no education, and this is where the highest order was to be introduced. And that's why it's like that. At some point, as far as I know, so please correct me, because you are more informed there were 560 psychiatrists in Croatia, of which 37 psychotherapists. At the same time, nonmedical psychotherapists were 450 and there was chaos. And that is why it is good to pass such a law and to regulate and protect the citizens of Croatia above all, this does not endanger psychiatrists, psychologists, this contributes, better protection and quality of protection of Croatian citizens. And one data from Rijeka, how important education is, therefore, a known association, cybernetics psychotherapy, they have 1922 hours of education, so they can even get a license to deal with psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67725	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative of the Steels.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67726	Thank you. So, I can partly agree with you, therefore, what I think is controversial, the issue, let's say, supervision, later by the Croatian psychotherapy chamber, I think that within the Ministry of Health there are certainly more who will be able to carry out supervision, because now with this law, Croatia's psychotherapy chamber is overseeing it by the Ministry of Social Care. So, you're on the side, but what's ultimately important, no matter what you say, for more than 13 years, you've been moving a ball from one resistor to the other, I think it's a good thing that we're in the process of passing this law and that this law is passed, because it's going to have a lot of positive repercussions and therefore, primarily, to the quality of the service, which is provided to the people who need such care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67727	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67728	Thank you very much, Vice President. So it's a long-term problem. And I really think that we should all agree that this should be regulated. The worst part is when it's unregulated, that's when it's actually causing you a series of problems. However, even when you regulate something, you must have some criteria and some conditions. I've been dealing with another problem for many years, chamber problems. I always advocate the option that the law should regulate certain things and the chambers deal with technical matters. If you can't regulate what you can't legislate to the chambers, you've opened up the next problem, because someone will, someone gets something and someone won't get something. You said that you would support in the first reading and I think it's good to go law, but I think it'll be good to define in the law what activities these professions are, what professions are possible to do with further training. Equally, I think it's extremely important some kind of acquired rights. There are people who have been dealing with things for years, who may have some other education, and there's this sensitivity that should be in chambers and in that sense I absolutely support your debate and it's good to do so and it's good to be the law that regulates it. And lastly, you've set up here, or one topic from which I've come to understand the following. It's me, so I have a college education architect. And with one good-looking course, I think there should be some kind of foreknowledge, and in that sense, a psychotherapist, if I'm not mistaken, I'm not really sure that all highly educated people need to be with each other, but I think that some kind of foreknowledge should be, and that in that sense, there should be effort and pronouncing and all of us, because it won't be very good to open up, at least in the first place certain bankruptcy rights, certain educations that are with clear criteria and then see where it goes because I'm afraid of good, you know, the way to hell is always paved up with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67729	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67730	Here's a thank you, Your Honor. So what counterpart Jerkovic also spoke about about the membership in the chamber, it is also very discussionable, so all the memberships in the chamber in Croatia are mandatory. Here for the first time is membership in the chamber voluntarily. One explanation is that, for example, those who are psychologists and social workers, doctors are already members of one chamber, and then they wouldn't have to be mandatory members and other chambers. What you said as an architect, so it's not quite like that, but it's quite wide enough, and I think it should be defined in some way because if you look at the catalog of all those who would be inclusive if this subparagraph 2 stays with the definition of psychotherapists, then you would have a whole diapazon of art historians, linguists. Here, and that's why I think it's good that there are counseling therapists, and I agree with you if a person has worked for many years to do so with some transitional and final provisions or to do a certain article that will allow these people to do the job they've been doing for the rest of their working life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67731	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67732	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, you asked yourself at the outset of this law, so here I am for both the public and you, and something touched my colleague Jovanovic about this law because of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which was then on the table at the beginning of 2015. And in fact, the government of the Republic of Croatia then decreed that the holder of this law be the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. I am pleased, and here is former Minister Opačić, in the best interest of the time a working group was formed and worked on the proposal of this law which was good and definitely showed up and showed then the need for this law to be passed but it was doubtful whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth then decided to do so. But many then wondered in the ministry why the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. What we talked about was not a problem of a colleague Jovanovic, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth having such a network, having centres for social care, different homes and institutions, and that was not so bad. However, the issue of supervision of this law was raised and supervision of this law could not be quality and could not be done today by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, as could the Ministry of Health. And that's the only thing I'm expressing the skepticism of this law. And if at that time the Union of Psychotherapy Associations had exerted a lot of pressure to pass this law as soon as possible, that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67733	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67734	Well, that's the difference in the concept, so I don't know if anyone mentioned it, so the Croatian medical chamber sent a letter to the board members calling for this law not to be supported. But this is from the perspective of the Croatian medical chamber, so that defines psychotherapy as treatment. It's been transferred here that it's no longer a treatment rather than a means of treatment, so it's a much wider concept than the whole situation. So it's very discussionable and it's very difficult to regulate this area legally. But I think it's imperative for all of us that this area is regulated legally. That's why the Germans called the Law on Psychotherapy and not the Law on Psychotherapy because therapy is an old Greek word therapy means treatment. So they went to such language finesse. I'm saying, I think the most important thing in this whole situation is that this area is legally regulated in the most optimistic way. They will certainly be dissatisfied on both sides but the role of the legislator is to try to find the golden environment in which they will be least dissatisfied on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67735	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Cellic, I agree with everything you said in your debate, and above all, I would like to say that it is good that you specifically pointed out that in this period until the second reading it is necessary to define certain concepts. I think it's a good thing this law came to our benches to discuss it in detail, for example. I don't understand who's gonna go to psychotherapy, whether it's gonna be clients or patients. Because if they're patients, then I think a psychotherapist can also give them some medication based on their condition. It doesn't make any sense to me, for example. it can make a logo, so it can determine the medications. It wouldn't make sense for a logod educational rehabilitator to be diagnosed. We know that, unfortunately, today, you and I have witnessed this happening today, that they are estimating diagnosis, and they are even determining medicines. So here, I am particularly pleased that this law is here today so that we can discuss it and I believe that here is the secretary of state to write carefully and her colleagues all of what we are going to say here today in order to really pass a quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67737	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67738	So here, I already mentioned the German law that was passed, the first version of the German law was passed, the first version of the German law was passed in 1999. There, for psychotherapists who aren't doctors, it clearly states that they can't prescribe drugs, that they can't refer to other doctors, that they can't refer to a hospital. The terminological difference between patients and clients is also present within the psych profession itself. So some say that the patient is the one, the person who came to seek professional help within the healthcare facility. But if she is, for example, a person who suffers from a life-long mental disorder at a good stage of remission, if she's using psychiatric treatments in the community, then she's no longer a patient but a client. So yet the difference is that we who work in psychiatric hospitals are the ones who come looking for professional help from us, hardly we can tell her that she is a client than she is a patient without diminishing her value and her dignity. And what you said absolutely agree, so unfortunately because of the lack of development of the system for health care of people suffering from autistic spectrum disorders, we at this time in the Republic have a situation where the diagnosis of autistic spectrum disorders is set up by not doctors, by people who are not health professionals who I find absolutely unacceptable. But here's the initiative and co-operation of UNICEF's project with the clinic, KBC Osijek gives hope that it will change quickly to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67739	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Bernarda Topolko will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to welcome the secretary of state with my associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The club of HNS representatives is very pleased that this bill finally came to us. Of course we will support him in his first reading and hope that the ministry will take into account all those remarks that have been made so far and will be given in the next discussions. This first bill was presented to the public as early as 2006. After that, a number of workshops and discussions were held with the departments of choirs of doctors, medical chambers, representatives of psychotherapy associations, legal experts. The draft was also presented in 2010 and at the Croatian Psychological Congress in Sibenik, 2013 at the Pula Congress as well as at the Conference of the Association of Psychotherapists of Croatia. The draft continuously complemented the new proposals, agreed with the legislation, and now finally, here we are. On the parent board, we witnessed a very intense and dynamic debate, which was very commendable. We hope it will contribute to better solutions that the minister has noted these things. Namely, a number of questions and dilemmas have been raised as to who can do everything and how to conduct psychotherapy in order to more clearly define the concept of psychotherapist and counseling therapist. Then in terms of what doctors can do psychotherapists and not health care professionals. We also, here is Mrs. Lukacic, who referred here as well as the board to the question of the patient and the client. It is also important to note as regards membership in the medical chambers, you in this bill of law made it possible for them to be. But what happens if one of them joins the chamber and the other doesn't? Since we are witnessing, or predicting that the pass will be given by a medical chamber, whether those who are not in the chamber will not receive correspondence. Or that might raise some other questions. Also, who will monitor the obligation of permanent harmonisation to issue a licence for the self-execution of psychotherapy and which the body will decide on professional work, evaluate it and monitor it since the present proposal allows it to be, or define it to be, the Executive Board of the Chamber. Perhaps that is not the happiest solution given the composition of the members of the Chamber Executive Board, where the president, the deputy, the secretary, the cashier, the register reference and the chamber register are found inside. I believe that some more questions will be raised in this respect, but it is undeniable that such a law is necessary and that its adoption should be supported precisely in order to introduce more order into psychotherapy circles, since we cannot ignore the fact that a large number of psychotherapists operate in the Republic of Croatia, without any clear legal frameworks, and which then allows, as has been said, the gray economy, unclear standards, action and those who do not meet the conditions for psychotherapists and pass without control and sanctions for such work. Psychotherapy, as a special activity, aims to define other EU members, and by adopting this law, we will be at the side of 17 members who have already regulated psychotherapy. The declaration from Strasbourg in 1990 is a fundamental document, based on the activities of the European Association for Psychotherapy, to establish psychotherapy as a separate profession with contaminating standards throughout Europe. According to that declaration, access to psychotherapy education is subject to candidates after completed education or studies, especially studies from humanistic sciences or medicine. Thanks to the above-mentioned declaration and standards of the European Association for Psychotherapy, in Croatia they have been conducted for 10 years and therapeutic education and... So, the number of our psychotherapists, who, as I have already stated, are actively working and operating on the market, have passed in accordance with all the European criteria of education, have experience in the work and many hours of their own psychotherapy work, and still do not have a legal framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that this law will legalise what is done through clear frameworks for the exercise of psychotherapy and remove from the market those who do not have education and cannot be called psychotherapists for which reasons the HNS will this first reading proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67741	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which they will speak respected with representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67742	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, honourable MPs. Here, several times today, it was said that on the parent board, they had had a heated debate and it was a vote, so that 3 MPs were against the law going to the first reading at all, and the others were in favour. All I'm gonna say is that I was one of those three who was against it. Why? I think we absolutely agree that this area needs to be put in order. And now it's an unprecedented mess. And this morning thinking about this law, I had an association, one of my acquaintances, a professor at economics college, who said in his own time, says, my friend in Split is having a hard time being crazy. I say why. He says there's a lot of competition. And then the second statement this morning, my colleague Misic tells me so you're making a fool, you should treat, not produce a fool. The intention, to pass this law and to regulate it now on this market, i.e. to ban the black market, to know exactly what can, which cannot, which, which is not, is absolutely for every praise. And it's no accident that this law, as we hear it, has been passed for 13 years. It's just that everyone who worked and was wise was careful. Because the proposals were obviously bad and no one wanted to be more serious about anyone. So I congratulate all those who have avoided this law so far, it just shows their seriousness. I'm looking at my colleague Taritash now, the association is different, she said she doesn't think she could do psychotherapy as an architect. You see, listening to him talk about problems he obviously knows, I think he'd make an excellent psychotherapist for education, and even with that basic education, why? Now I'll tell you why. Because when you speak, you also talk about details, which are sometimes very important. You're spotting details. The one who sees the details is obviously systematic. This area needs systematicity. And secondly, I'm here to take a little interest. I was interested in people who were architects, so we often talked about small Mediterranean cities as they were built, as architects designed them, how well it was done in a psychological sense. The architect deals with man and space for this man. How will a man in space feel good? So the meaning of the architects takes care of the feeling of man in a certain space. We're talking about emotional problems here. So, architects do, when they draw something of water, take care of what it's going to have to do with a psychological condition or a group or an individual. However, the fact that basic education is not what we have learned in medicine where it is very important, verticalizing it gives them no less right than it does to others who want to deal with it and who do not have that dimension to take care of a man. So I think you could work. Now the question is why am I against it, why am I against first reading because the proposal is very bad and we're going to do it, but we're not going to do it. And Parliament adopts laws that regulate relations in society, society and individual, among individuals, etc. There's still regulatory bodies out there, and there's none of that here. Let's fight for, the battle of all battles is a battle of concepts, so let's start with the concepts, the Law of Psychotherapy, when he tells you the Law of Psychotherapy, right you, what first comes to mind? That someone is looking for help for certain problems they have, that are psychological. And now a fellow doctor who has passed that verticalized education is a gynecologist, but she is constantly with people who have certain gynecological problems that reflect on the psychological condition of that person. She can't even be near this law. And now that we don't concentrate on who can, who can't work, it's a trap again. We need to concentrate on what kind of law has implications for possible patients. A fellow cellie said they're called here somewhere, and they're counselors, right? It's an old rule that often times more useful than advice has one that gives it than the one that receives it, you know. Second therapy, therapy assumes treatment. What do you think when you enter the Law of Psycho Treatment, it's nice to say in Greek and blurry things. Psychotherapy, which means psychological treatment, psychotherapy. Why people would prefer to go to doctors, to the doctor rather than to educated psychiatrists or doctors who have upgraded their psychological knowledge to basic education. First, when you go to a psychiatrist or a psychotherapy doctor, then you think the following way. I'm telling you this as a man who was a psycho therapist, you know, who has four years of education from group psych therapy. So I'm not completely out of it. It is much easier to accept the fact that someone will treat you with words than medications, although many psychotherapists prescribe and diagnose medicines. But when someone treats you with words, then you think it's not that dangerous. The motive for particularly private therapy is mostly private, rarely when there are very good examples in Rijeka and psychotherapists doing well psychotherapy, then it is a motive for it to last as long as possible for completely understandable reasons. You know, let's take one disorder, I can't tell you everything you should tell right now. Let's say obsessive-compressive disorder, that's what you need... I don't know if you two have one classic example of the need to wash your hands 50 times each time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can understand that in different ways. Now it's the official attitude of the world's psychiatry and psychotherapy to treat it with bi-biscuit therapy. But there's also a lot of doctors who treat it with analytical therapy. When you talk about psychotherapy, then you need to know that there are as many as 27 techniques here, but there are 200 psychotherapy methods, 200. Someone named 200, I can't count 200. You don't know what method someone's treating you with. In all other areas of treatment, you also have algorithms that are not, therefore, protocols as to how something is treated that are not quite mandatory, but will ask you why you did not stick to the profession, and here you are left because psychotherapy, because everything is allowed, because it is possible, because you treat words neglecting the fact that words can be more dangerous than swords, more dangerous than guns. Every treatment, every treatment has its side effects, the fellow doctors know that well. Do you know the most serious side effect of psychotherapy? Suicide, ma'am. Suicide. Dig up a psychological wound and don't know what to do with it, it's very dangerous. So, the desire to introduce order is extremely welcome and I will support it absolutely but that we must... And the terminology, the concepts that won't, because this is how you send a false message to people, a false message to clients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I mentioned an obsessive-compressive disorder, to come next to me and ask you what your problem is and to say I wash my hands or every time I leave the house I have to go back and check the list is closed so I'm troubled by the thought of shutting down the gas, I'm going to ask you how often it happens to you and if it disturbs your everyday life, how much it bothers you, how much energy it takes away from you. If it takes too much of your energy, if you don't have anything left to function normally or a lot of it takes away from you, then of course I'll fully apply another approach and don't try to stegmatize you as a mental patient because I know what that Stigma means. And you'll get a Stigma if you go to psychotherapy for 3 years, 5 years, it's treated for 5 years psychotherapy, so we need to know, it's not treated for 3 days. And for all five years, you've been raising your loan to pay for sending someone a false message, a false message. Here's the message of cheating on potential clients. What kind of client, what are we going to fool ourselves about, so I say battle for... is the battle of all battles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The medical chamber responded negatively to that. Yesterday after that committee, Madam Minister told me that we will do this law together again, in that sense I will do my best to make this law better, but I will not support this proposal either, because if it remains, I support the proposal and it is called that and that it is undefined and that it is not in line with what we are told that it is accepted in the EU and that it is, we get rid of this complex that everything that comes from the outside is better than we can do ourselves. I see my time is up, I hope I've been so clear that you partially understand what my position is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67743	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dodig, it is very clear that from your presentation it will not support the law, however when you say it is good that the law has not been passed all these years, I cannot agree with you in that part. I think that even if we passed a law like this that might be missing, it could be done, it would be better than what we have right now, and it's a completely unsettled area, and I think we should verify that this law started right from the profession of psychologists, psychotherapists who want this area to be arranged and who don't want to be in this area, let's say that people's babes come back as psychotherapists and they don't have an absolute foothold for it in their educations. I will personally support this law in my first reading, I hope that by the second reading, this law can be passed with a great majority in Parliament, because I think that this law primarily works in order among the psychotherapists themselves between those who do not have education and those who have the necessary education, have a license and can do this job and those who simply do not have it, and at this point do it. On the other hand, psychiatry is one thing, psychotherapy is something else. When you have what you say is an obsessive-compressive disorder, it's a job for you, for a fellow cell, for all those who are doctors, who are psychiatrists but when you have a child who is sexually abused, then it's not for medicine, it's not for the treatment of that kind, it's for psychotherapy. It must have experts in front of it who will go through the trauma that the child has experienced to go through with it, must know that it is not wrong for what happened to him, that it did not in any way cause it. Only when it's over can it go on as many normal lives as it is. And in this work, psychotherapists are extremely important, and there's so much clarity between what's sickness and psychiatry and what's trauma and what's treating a psychotherapist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67745	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67746	I'm sorry I had to deny you almost everything you said, it doesn't matter, you know. Trauma is not a disease. And it can turn into a disease. I like you, and I'm not going to rephrase you in an ugly way, but I'll just tell you the following, everyone who deals here, here's our Professor. Reiner who deals with blood pressure, which is taken as a disease, so I'll tell you, that the traumatic way of life, the stress, the anxiety to say is one of the risk factors and the pressure. So how are you going to treat him? It's a question, you can psychotherapy, you can drug it, but it needs an expert to determine what will help at some point and what is the fastest way and what method to achieve the goal. If you take it, you'll start in five years, then it's very difficult. And 100 other reasons. The abused child, absolutely, finally, medications, there are no psych wards that are registered to children. You know why they're giving up? Because any hope has been lost that otherwise will happen, but psychiatrist, psychotherapist, anyone, who gives the first opportunity... The child is very troubled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So to make a difference between that, which is for the child, which is, there are differences. Is it real? Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67747	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Dodig, sit down, you don't have to stand. So, I highly appreciate your professional work and we've been working together a long time ago, in some areas of depression and I understand your concern and I really think it's sincere. However, I cannot agree with some parts of your debate. So you said those who ran away from this law were serious. I don't think they were serious, but I'm not gonna say they weren't serious, I'll say they weren't responsible. So, we need this law, and I'm going to repeat it both now and later and in an individual debate, and as many times as it takes. Not because of a psychiatrist, not because of a psychologist who's been through an extra education, although a psychiatrist doesn't have enough education. He told his colleague that he had been going into that psychotherapy training framework for about 700 hours from the subspecialization area. So that's not a problem for us, we're dealing with this gray zone. A gray zone, dominated by dilettans, profiteers, various wizards who protect citizens. And that's why we have to put in order, so it's no good that there's been a mess for so many years. All the problems you said, that the laws are being dealt with in a good way, we'll try to solve the second reading and I believe deep down that you will make a great contribution. And that's what the SDP said among other things. But all those problems that you said, there are now, there are years, and many citizens are going to get help, to unskillers, to pay expensive money, and no one is helping them. This law has to be settled. He's already, by his own solutions, of course, we've all agreed to perfect them. And that's why I'm calling for all of us to be together until the second reading, that's exactly what we're doing. So it's not serious not to solve problems. That's irresponsible. We as politicians must rise even above the profession and provide a solution when there are different differences in some problem. And that's what this law is trying to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67749	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67750	... If he doesn't make a good foundation. [[Specially enabled.]] That's all I'm talking about. You misunderstood me, if you said I was against the law and regulation of this area. However, we must, the system, we must systematically do so. Not with the wrong concepts, which send false information, not with false assumptions, which can be catastrophic. And this, if they were serious, I interpreted it in a way that they understood all the seriousness of it. To pass the law, under pressure of time, as soon as possible, not quality. We've legalized something that's not good. In fact, let's go catch up well, you can bring it in a month. In a month, but you have to have the courage to say what's true. That's the point. No one is against this law, though. He, that part of the population that this population is interested in, is crying out for this law. I'm aware of that and there's no place to delay. This is more important than ratifying an agreement that, or some report from 2015. Absolutely, we can speed it up, that's what I'm looking for, nothing else. So it's just the seriousness of the law-making approach, because huge implications have that law. It may not seem to people, but looking at it from the point of view of individual and collective needs, it's terribly important. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67751	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67752	Dear colleague Dodig, we belong to the same profession, though different specialties. What worries me all the time about this problem is why it hasn't solved it long ago. We've been waiting for him for as long as I've known for 17 years, so if good memory serves me. And what is one of the main resistances, therefore, in the profession of psychiatrists and because one is for this solution, the other is to remain another solution. However, seeing as how this has been resolved in Europe, America or Canada, it is obvious that we must go through solving this problem rather than putting under the rug and leaving the status quo. You've been a specialist for a long time, so you know things, which perhaps we as the rest of us don't know what your opinion is the problem with fellow psychiatrists why they're against this law, so why they're against solving this problem. So we're not really talking about the text, but why, where the problem is that fellow psychiatrists don't want to deal with it this way, but on the other hand, we know that when we talk about fellow psychiatrists that a lot of them are resented by psychotherapy, that they're more focused on biological psychiatry, so treatment, that's another way. So I'm interested in your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67753	The answer of Honorable Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67754	About me now saying why certain psychiatrists are for, why they're not, it's also among hematologists very often. Well, you have algorithms, so you kind of stick to it, and shrinks have algorithms, so they stick to it. So I can be against it or for but precisely because even the waist is not unique. The parliament must not allow itself to make a political decision, and that is a legislative framework for this to succumb to the pressure of anyone, you know, anyone, even if it's part of the profession. Let's go see what they're like, here's a colleague who said experiences in France, what they're like in Germany, and we'll see a little bit, and we'll comment on that. And it's not the same as doing psychotherapy in Zambia and Vienna, you know. Nowhere do you, in any profession, enter as many of your own and even world-class as you do in psychotherapy. That's why it's perfectly understandable that there's been a huge disagreement. It's much easier to give the medicine because then it's behind you pharmaceutical industry, you're standing here and there's no, colleague Jovanovic said, there's no control, there's no psychotherapist and there's no time, there's no time, I've been through a part of that education, four years, I've had a supervisor. You're getting your emotions into it, into that process. That's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67755	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honored Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67756	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that there are so few of us in the assembly but this is one of the very interesting topics about what the Parliament can do and how the Parliament can solve some things that have not been settled in real life for 10, 15, and 17 years, respectively. Obviously, in this activity that is well expanded in Croatia, order should be made. It's just that the basic question is whether to make order with a law like this, or maybe you should make order with some other way, so some other text of the law, because looking at the text itself, it's in many ways missing. It's very clear that you need to edit the area, but when you're editing the area, then you're doing frames in which area, so a particular waist can move. So let's say from 43 articles of the law on what psychotherapy is, then, just one article, article 5, so 2%. And when we talk about a chamber that I think is necessary and necessary, we have 16 articles and 37%, respectively. So we don't edit the essence, but we edit the network, the structure, how, who's going to give the credentials, what the chamber will look like, who's going to be the president of the chamber, etc., idt.. Defacto, this is a psychotherapist's chamber law. This isn't a psychotherapy law. Because if you look at it, so if you look at the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, but we can make it a good thing that it's a psychotherapy law, how psychotherapy is conducted in Croatia. If you look at other laws, then you'll see, you'll see that in other countries it's settled in a different way. The last country to solve it, I looked at it a little bit and Googled it, the last country that solved it was Canada, I think in 2015 at the 12th month where they passed the Psychotherapy Act where psychotherapy was put into regulated health professions. So it's regulated what psychotherapists can and should deal with. So their law makes it very clear that it is psycho, so it is treatment through psychotherapy techniques in relation to psychotherapist and patient, therapeutic or serious disorders, opinions, moods, emotional regulation, perception or memory that can seriously endanger individual judgment of his behaviour, communication or social functioning. So here in this law it doesn't say anything, so it doesn't say what, which is the framework with which psychotherapists need to deal with, and I can deal with what might be easier for psychologists and it's easier for psychiatrists because it knows what limits they're going through, but for all the other professions that are listed in Article 5, it's something that's very important because the result of psychotherapy can be favourable, it can be unfavourable. One of the unfavourable results he mentioned and a colleague, Dodig, is suicide. Who's going to be responsible that if this happens after psychotherapy, what might happen is that psychotherapist neither guilty nor due, psychiatrists get people killed. So it's not something that's unusual, so it's not something that doesn't happen in life. But if you don't have a frame in which that psycho therapist was going to defend himself against possible charges that he did wrong, that he was doing wrong, that he was treating wrong. Because this is treatment. So, whatever we turn this around is just a cure. So I lack the definition in this law, so I lack the framework, so I'm missing it so that it clearly defines what psychotherapy is. And here I plead that this law goes into three readings, because I'm afraid with a text like this, if we go to another reading, knowing our ouses, it's going to get a little bit better, we're going to come to another reading and we're not going to be fixed. And the point of this law is that he's not a psychotherapy law, he's a psychotherapy law. And no one can convince me. The matter needs to be resolved. This is a good step. The first step is good, we have some background. But here's what I'd like to think about is that this law goes into three readings, that we still have a chance to see a completely different version of where it would be completely different to structure the law itself. As far as the law itself is concerned, first of all, when we talk about a chamber in my opinion, the chamber must be mandatory. The chamber if, so if it's in the chamber, so if you're a member of the chamber, it means volunteering that if you want to or you won't be a member of the chamber then you won't, so you'll just use the chamber to get a license or nothing else and then what? After that, get out of the chamber and what now? How are you gonna take someone's license? He says, I'm not a member of the chamber, you can't take my license. On the other hand, the chamber serves as the Chamber of Doctors, dentists and others where you have continued education, that you must collect a number of points to restore your license. You're licensed here indefinitely until a man dies, a psychotherapist. So for the rest of his life. Thus, in that part too, there are some things that need to be resolved because the waist goes forward. So, you must continuously educate yourself in order to make your service quality as good as possible. So I think that this should be changed absolutely and done in another way that the chamber is mandatory, by agreeing with other chambers and with the chamber of doctors and the chamber of psychologists therefore agree that there should be no overlapping. If a license is issued by a medical chamber, that if a fellow psychiatrist wants to be also a psychotherapist, then you too are licensed to be a psychotherapist, and there is no overlapping there, then there must be two chambers, in two chambers a member if he is a member in one. And Article 5 is totally inappropriate to me. So, we're just picking up the professions that might be dealing with psychotherapy. Again, we don't have a framework in which we could put psychotherapy, so here I don't regulate it. I'm telling you all of them, please look at all the laws both German and French, look at the American, look now Canadian. It seems to you everywhere that it's a regulated health profession. It is regulated and will probably be regulated and, I haven't followed that area for a while but I think it will be regulated or regulated in the European Union as well. Therefore, if a health care profession is regulated, place a framework that these people need to deal with because in such a way we will know who is doing what. And as far as Article 5 is concerned, I think that as long as this is not settled, as long as it's not said to be a regulated health profession, it's very difficult for a pedestetic to be able to perform in health care institutions with patients. So that's where the law protects them, that's how it protects everything else. It is therefore very difficult to do this in departments, therefore in psychiatric clinics or others. And lastly, I think this is a good start. If necessary, I think that can include both the Parliament and its committees very actively and possibly the Committee on Social Care and the Committee on Health, because this multidisciplinaryly, therefore, overlaps. And here is the Vice-President of the Parliament one thing that, if the Parliament puts in its own, therefore activities because we too have the right to propose laws, that we go to solve another area that is similar to this area, which is homeopathic medicine. In Croatia, it is completely unregulated, hunting in the murky certain people, and this is an example so that, by solving this, we can go into the Law on Homeopathic Treatment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67757	Thank you very much. You can see that Mrsic is an intern. One lapus happened to him, instead of psychotherapy, he said prophesytics. And as for homeopathic medicine in 2000, it already existed since '99. on 2000 there was a proposal to regulate alternative forms of medicine. Unfortunately, there was nothing to do with that proposal later, but good. ... That confused me, because it really had nothing to do with it. [[/Intruder Mrssic, you can't hear.]] Yeah. We have two replicas. He is the first respected colleague, Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67758	Here is Honorable Representative Mrsic, the Committee on Health and Social Policy is one committee, without two committees. I agree with much of what you said, and I think this law is quite technical. There's a lot more talk about form than content, and I think we should define what's under the description of a psychotherapist or an advisory therapist. These examples you said, so everything depends on which lobby at a certain point is more pressuring to the administration. So, let's say in Spain you have a situation that the Spanish Federation of Psychologists insists that psychotherapists can only be psychologists. The moment you stated that psychotherapy is exclusively a health profession, you would automatically disable all those who are not medical professions from being psychotherapists. So that's a rather problematic question. So everything needs to be watched The Union of Psychotherapeutic Associations of Croatia has launched this initiative, this initiative should be welcomed but this legislative proposal is primarily a insistence and from their perspective that this area is regulated because, as counterpart Jovanovic said, too many people working on the black market, who are falsely represented and who have no education and yet with this law, this number will be significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67759	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67760	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, when I was talking about the Assembly being involved, I didn't just think about the board, but I thought about all of us who aren't members of the board and we're interested in participating in creating this law, so there are also colleagues who are social workers and other professions who would also like to be involved in the creation of this law and I think it's good for Croatia and that Croatia has it. And when we talk about regulated health professions, it means that it does not mean that it is regulated if the term and in Croatia is such that the term is not a regulated health profession, it means that only doctors, the regulated health profession is said to be a profession that is in the health system and all those who have a particular education can participate in it, so in this last Canadian law, there are both occupation therapists and psychologists and psychiatrists, so they are all in that profession, and that law authorises them that members of these chambers can wear the title of psychotherapist, so that's what this law is missing right now. So who has the right to be called a psychotherapist and who gives him that license. So that's something this law should say. Thus, a regulated medical profession does not mean that the profession can and should only be dealt with by doctors. All those who have the necessary education to do so can also do so if it is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67761	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mrsic, you've expressed concern that this law will not be reached until the second reading, I sincerely hope that it will come to an end, there have been good discussions on boards, so here at last here and in the assembly, today there is no fight, there is a constructive debate, and indeed here I have to say that today I am happy about this kind of debate that has been argued and which I think has brought to people in the ministry some ideas, perhaps some new proposals that you can include until the second reading. And it would be good for the law to be passed in the second reading, and indeed this area that has long been unregulated to regulate it, and to pass such a law. I'm going to do it again, it's better than the state we're in right now. As for this idea of yours to be a regulated health profession, I would truly like it to be so. However, here's my data may be outdated, but as far as I know, there are 23 clinical psychologists in all of health care in Croatia. So 23 people, psychologists working at this point in hospitals, certainly insufficient, a little. When you start talking to doctors and the medical chamber aren't exactly thrilled that psychologists are part of health care, I think they should be, I think that's one profession that can help in the hospital system, the health system. And it might be good to go that way. But today it seems to me that the door of the medical chamber, the doctor, is very closed. And this law that doesn't even push psychologists and psychotherapists into the health care system, look how much resistance we have to take care of that part, let alone say this. So, I would be happy if we could really achieve what colleague Mrsic here said that even psychotherapists who, of course, end all necessary educations are part of the health system, would be much better, would help the health system, should leave what can be done on the market, outside the health system, but I'm afraid that at this point, it's better to take this one step, so maybe when he matures the situation then this second step, I think these two might be too much for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67763	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67764	Thank you very much. I agree that it is good for this to be a regulated health profession, and I think that the chamber of health care and medical care must be opened according to other professions, because it is simple to close itself to avoid following the modern assets of society and development and society and medicine and everything else. So I hope that the Croatian Medical Chamber will also hear these discussions and have a very significant impact on the second version of this law, I hope that it will be constructive and will not only do so to prevent the law from being passed but also to bring the law itself. A regulated health, medical, health care profession is actually something that will allow people who wear the title psychotherapist to wear it with pride and to know that they are therefore part of the health system and that they are licensed and in such a way we will prevent all possible those who hunt in the murky. I hope that the proposer, who is therefore not easy to reconcile some of the things that we know have been uncompromising for years, but if there is determination and if the liquids and trends of what are seen today in Europe and the world are being monitored, I think there might be a better second version of the law. But knowing what it looks like, I'm afraid that the law will remain the same as it is and that it's very difficult to change it in a way that everything we discussed today and that it's the Law of Psychotherapy, not the Law of the Psychotherapy Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67765	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, he mentioned to his colleague Mrsic, that we should resolve the Houseopathy Act, so I use the opportunity, which you are as vice president of the Parliament doctor, that we urgently need the Health Activity Act, because we want to admit it or not, we doctors,... changes and functioning of health care and health care staff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've had universities, ours, where nurses are educated who will be masters of the sisterhood, nurses, medical diagnostic labs, clinical nutritionists, dental hygienists, and they don't even recognize the health care system. If we lack medical personnel, it would be good, as soon as we pass that law and completely change the systematization of health care, so as to know who is doing what, and so that our patients have better health care. I share the opinion of my colleague Opačić, who shows what a quality parliamentary debate should look like at all levels. I don't think I can, not commend my colleague Strenja Linic and the expert services of the Health Committee and all members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. So it's enough to read the board's conclusions on this subject, because it's all written in them. So all the things that we've been saying here today, we've been discussing, we've been proposing is summed up on this page and a half. So here we see how the Parliament should function, quality rank in committees, proposing solutions from committees, including committees in the creation of laws, amending laws. And I'm really convinced that thanks to the board and everyone else, this law will be good and good. Why are we passing this law? We heard it today, and here I will quote Mrs. Irene Bezic, Mr. Jadranka Morović, the head of the association of psychotherapy associations of Croatia and psychotherapists, psychologists, psychiatrists. So it's really simple. There are no hidden intentions here. The aim of the law is to protect the citizens of Croatia, to know what is and what is not psychotherapy, which I can and cannot expect from a psychotherapist. Of course, one of the main objectives is to prevent market abuses and the co-existence of non-licensed persons offering psychotherapy services, and this is where great problems arise for our citizens. There are now various people on the market called psychotherapists and similar names, and they serve various pseudo-psychotherapy methods. These are often also persons who have not completed a study of helpers and directional ones, so they are highly likely to harm individuals with their activities. But it's certainly what's particularly important, even today, and about the problem in our debate, to do harm, concept and importance of psychotherapy, as methods of choice. So we've heard that this law has been being prepared for decades, almost, to say, and that it is necessary. It is necessary, I will repeat, because today, there is no profession, no activity, no occupation of psychotherapy and psychotherapy. We now have a psychotherapy process, a treatment that recognises HZZO, and thus opens up the possibility that this process also serves people who are not adequately educated. Adequate education and psychotherapy are obtained for years and by working in the group individually. We've heard from some methods, so I'm going to repeat this Rijeka story, which I've been familiar with for years, so cybernetics, psychotherapy, where education lasts for 1922 hours, and then there's a license that's been valued by a European psychotherapist association. Otherwise, I'm the concept of psychotherapy, and there's a declaration of psychotherapy brought in 1990, and since then, it's been trying to solve this activity in a quality way throughout Europe, and here we are, late oh-ho-ho years. Who cares most about this law? So he interferes with a part of psychiatrists and psychologists but not in one malicious way. So everyone likes to stick around their area and doesn't like to get someone else involved in it. But I'll do it again, what I said several times today, and so did my colleagues. So, the big problem, the psychological problems, the simple number of psychologists, the number of doctors, especially psychiatrists, and to point out a highly psychotherapist, is so inadequate, that the growing problem of the psychological disorders of WHO metal disease has placed it in its priorities and in 2020 it will be one of the leading problems in the medical offices. It is clear that it is also necessary to regulate a part that is not psychologists and doctors, in order to help citizens through psychotherapy, to make their quality of life greater. I'll mention another segment, which we in our assembly, have a discussion of occasions, these are prisons, colleagues and colleagues. If there's a need for quality psychotherapy, it's in our prison system. Ask yourself what this concern is and to what extent, there are even psychiatrists who are interested in working psychotherapists in prisons and whether these people who are psychotherapy are actually one of the methods that will enable a quality return to life. Not to list all the other segments in our society now, where we need to start with quality psychotherapy. So, to say the least, I'm not taking up your time, I think we're taking an important step, and I am convinced that this law may be one example of the return of citizens' trust in the work of the Parliament, MPs, who, by quality legal proposal, solve the problem and pass the law exclusively in the interests of citizens. Not psychiatrists, not psychologists, but citizens who need quality help in the various psychological problems they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67767	Thank you very much. He had some replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Steel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67768	I agree with you, Mr. Jovanovic. I would point out, therefore, during specialization and psychiatry, that is, 180 hours a month if we take 12 months during specialization, a psychiatric specialist should be in the psychotherapy department, which means over 2,000 hours, which means absolutely correlating, i.e. above all those recommendations that have certain psychotherapy schools, which are prescribed and which are in some way licensed according to European regulations within the Association of Psychotherapy Associations of Croatia. So I would just mention that during the specialization part, I was in Belgium, there in a hospital that has 600 beds for 15 psychiatrists and 65 clinical psychologists, and in our case, as Agent Opačić said, with us psychologists working in psychiatric hospitals, they are mostly dealing with psychometry, so they are not educated to be clinical psychologists and, unfortunately, the concept of colleges that have a course of psychology is more focused on being scientists tomorrow than clinicians, and that is also what needs to be changed in university studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67769	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67770	Thank you very much. I agree completely with my colleague, Celić, and I use this replica when you are now talking about university education, to mention another example since you are, and I will speak on behalf of the club to emphasize that just sisterhood, graduate master's of the sorority are certainly persons who, based on their education, will be perfectly involved after further education and the field of psychotherapy. In particular, in Rijeka, at the Faculty of Health Studies, we have a course called promotion and protection of mental health, so graduate and university studies of the sisterhood where such persons can contribute to the resolution of this deficit that we have in the system when it comes to solving the problem of mental disorders in Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67771	The next replica is the respected representative of Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Jovanovic, I volunteered for the replica because you opened a whole new dimension, which is psychotherapy in prisons. The fact is that we don't respect our own laws because there is a provision in many laws that people who commit certain crimes are sentenced to prison, they have to go through psychosocial treatments, but unfortunately there's no one to work with. In EU countries, where many things are looked at through money, certain research is done, so these studies show that people who, therefore, are perpetrators of certain crimes, abusers, if they don't go through some psychosocialism in the period when they're in prison, if they only support the prison sentence, are often re-repeated, which means that they're in some way, that's what we're not doing in the state through the cost of his stay in prison calculated that they're much cheaper to invest in psychosocial treatment and they're not getting re-recitation from him, which they might be going to be in prison for two or three years again for the next 10 or 15 years or five years and doing new expenses than to invest in psychosocial treatment and simply don't have him in prison anymore and of course not have a new sacrifice that he's going to ruin their life. So this psychosocial treatment is extremely important, and it seems to me that we should work a little bit in the education system, so even on the registration quotas to get a part of the people because at this point we just don't even have mental health experts on the market who can do that kind of work, so that kind of psychotherapy regardless of this law, I'm talking about experts who are educated by their basic education that I can do it at all. So the registration quotas are questionable to us right now and many parts of the law are falling into our water because we don't do what we wrote down in laws because it simply doesn't exist. And I'm glad you mentioned that dimension this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67773	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67774	Yes, colleagues Opačić, prison system and prison care in the prison system is a big problem, I am preparing to discuss this law contacted doctors and psychologists who go into the prison system and indeed in huge problems how to conduct psychotherapy quality, simply because the number of people who need it is so large that they do not arrive in a quality way. So taking care of the registration quotas at universities is certainly one way to solve it. I also appeal again to our academics, Vice-President of the Parliament that he is also initiating a more quality conversation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science where there is indeed a complete discrepancy between the works of staff who are being educated at universities, who have no place in the health system at all. Of course, every school in Croatia should also have a pedagogogical and psychologist and that, in the long run, all these problems that we have in our society may be minor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67775	The next individual debate is those respected advocates of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67776	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I'm glad to have the opportunity to speak at last about a law that has come before us to this House because for 13 years now, it's been 13 years trying to regulate this area. Through the presentations we had, several times we could and had the opportunity to hear that this was being discussed by the board, that some conclusions had been made. What I would like to point out is that, here I belong to that profession that is sub-represented, is, in fact, sub-represented in both the Parliament and the Committee on Health and Social Care and it is the law that regulates the area that is being discussed. So I'd prefer them, so it's probably just that my colleague in the Assembly probably doesn't have any, so they're not represented on that committee, I haven't studied them until the end. But I have to say that in a committee that unites both areas there is 9 if not more doctors, there is not a single social worker, a social educator, an educational rehabilitator. I think I've been able to find out that he's an outside associate, so there's an outside associate on the board. Why am I saying that? It seems to me that the composition is even, more uniformly, that we might discuss this in a different way, that we might have a little bit more understanding and support for this law and the need to regulate the area itself. Ours, so my club is probably reserved on this matter by law. I will definitely, I will support this bill. Of course, I'll tell you later what bothers me in this bill. But first of all, I support law-making, and I support this first reading for a reason, for two key reasons. First of all, those are benefits. So we will allow citizens legally and under the supervision of the use of services of those methods means psychotherapy that individual people need and give the right to choose. And that's what should contribute to the quality of life. We've often had opportunities here to hear that it's about treatment or it's about patients. Maybe you'd still be there for me a better quality expression of clients. Thus, space will be opened, and on the other hand it will narrow down the area of nadirism or manipulation. Another important area is that this law will regulate the current work or work of a psychotherapist, or those involved, in doing so. How? It is in this way that professional training will also be made possible and supervision of professional training will be carried out. That's the key. So without it, we're going to have a hard time, so if we stay on this one alone, that area will still be gray, and people will use it because people need it. So, not going into the work of a psychiatrist’s specialist doctor, I want to stress, however, that this area has been dealt with and not with health professions for many years. Why are they in business? They're dealing with it because, above all, education is recognized, proven. When we talk about our territory, it means that in the European Union, the recognised and proven bodies are implementing it. The professions, therefore, are educated in this area and now we are, therefore, what is recognized, so it is precisely recognized by the people, by the citizens, by the clients. So where it may not have even been successful, the results have not been successful in, say, the psychiatrists have been able to find out, have been able to achieve good results and be satisfied with what was provided elsewhere. When we talk about education, so it's clear, we know that how long it takes to educate a psychiatrist's doctor, but I want to point out that these educations are, too, here are the three that will just mention integral gestalt therapy, reality therapy or systemic family psychotherapy that does not, so in this area only psychologists, social workers or social pedagogues are educated, but also psychiatrists. So it's a common area. And this is exactly the way, so the adoption of this law is the way to bring it all together, how to regulate and how to carry out this surveillance. I told you about the integral gestalt therapy four years out of it 816 hours of group experience learning, 400 hours of clinical practice under a super vision, 200 hours of work in expert groups, 100 hours of individual therapy, 158 hours of supervision, 64 hours of seminar and 50 hours of writing final work. A total of 1788 hours. Reality therapy in two degrees, basic and psychotherapy phases. You're two and a half years old plus three years, five and a half years old. So, I think it's a serious area, serious directions that have been proven and give good results there in that area or those who need it and where it is shown to be effective. What I support and believe is that until the second reading should certainly be changed and regulated, these are exactly what chambers and the detours of the work of chambers, i.e. jurisdiction. Consent with colleagues who stressed that membership in the chamber should certainly be mandatory for precisely this reason that it is possible to conduct quality surveillance. Because it is said that they can, that they need to be perfected, but how to exercise over perfection is not clearly stated. Also, I think it's very important to introduce a relicence because there's no way that a permit in me should be permanent, because that's exactly how psychotherapists will always be in, so they're able to prove that they're still capable and that they can and that they're perfected and that they have results. So that's certainly important to me. Here is a personal meaning in front of my profession I support this bill with and expected that until the second reading will be done and changed what is necessary to make it quality and to reconcile, above all, these professions medically, primarily psychiatrists and professions that are assistants, who are already performing and providing services, a certain form of psychotherapy services to, in line with the needs of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67777	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Ines Strenja Linic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67778	Dear MPs, here, as we could hear from your discussion this area is close to you. But I'd like to tell you, actually, that the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy has four representatives of your party, four doctors, and that you really need to agree within the club, who you're going to put on that committee. Because some of them don't come on board most of the time. I think that you should have realized by now, that actually, the composition of the board depends on the parties who propose their people, the Bridge has proposed two members. One of them is someone who deals with the social field, the other is a doctor. So, I think that's how you should solve the composition of your club. What's important is that this committee also regularly invites all doctors to the thematic sessions, all the doctors in the Assembly, I asked that an exact list be made and everyone gets calls to the thematic sessions of this Assembly committee. And no doctor who is not a member of the Assembly has come to any thematic session. He's saying something. And I invite you, if you are not a member of the board, we can send you a call, but certainly you can join, because you can always make a good contribution to the debate on the parliamentary board, regardless of what you do not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67779	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67780	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleagues, for this observation. Yes, what was my intention in this exhibit, what I said was that our profession was actually sub-represented. Unfortunately, it's probably part of the Parliament, and that's how it's sub-represented. I had no intention of talking about whether someone else was supposed to be. Maybe if we had separate boards of social policy, say the Health Committee, maybe it would be a situation, it's just one of my characteristics and remarks, and then there would be the possibility of a easier deal. I thank you for this invitation, and I will be happy to respond to your participation in the committee's work. I say, it was my intention, in that very sense, that this law was most discussed by doctors. And then it's kind of understandable, I think that resistance to the adoption of this law. If it were a profession, for example, was a different situation, I believe, in the number of experts, so let's say that instead of doctors on the board, social workers, psychologists and social educators, I believe there would be a situation or that thinking would be something different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67781	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67782	Here, dear Representative Alfirev, I would not agree with you that only doctors were critical of these amendments to the law, and if you exclude Professor Dodig, who was the only orthodox in the defense, Professor Dodig in defense of the medical, or, on the one hand, the psychiatric profession, you will see that there was understanding and involvement, and also at the very session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy and fellow Members of Lukačić and counterpart Varda, who were also quite critical of this definition. So you're a social pedagogue, as far as I know, and that's not controversial. So, these assistant professions are not controversial and they were at no time questioned, but the question is, that sub-paragraph, which follows behind, which is related to the study of pedeutics, related to psychotherapy, which is said, that study, does not exist in Croatia at this time. However, other than that education, which lists at least 4 or at least 3 years in an advisory therapist, I think it is necessary to write the number of hours. In German law, for example, it says a minimum of 600 hours of theory, a minimum of 1200 hours of practice in a psychiatric institution, and then in a non-institutional treatment, then a supervision, therefore, is precisely defined number of hours, i.e. the number of ECTS points. That way, it's just like the autoservices. So, you go to the service, after you've been 15,000 miles, if you haven't passed, then you have option B after a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67783	Thank you. The next replica is, I'm sorry, the answer, the esteemed representative of Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67784	Yeah. Thank you, co-worker. Yes, I agree, and it is true that there are recommendations, not only between professions, psychiatrists and not medical professions, but between themselves, therefore, and among psychiatrists, there are also recommendations, because we also see that the president of the association of psychotherapists is also a psychiatrist and at the same time a psychotherapist, who is actually with a colleague, psychologist, psychotherapist, has initiated and is therefore working on the adoption of this law. It is clear that even among our professions, therefore, there are some misunderstandings and in fact all of this is going with the goal of actually protecting our basic profession. It's very clear, and we all stand for it in this area. I see that this, therefore, is not only not only the proposals that have come to us but also the intensity and the ministry. I see that even now among the clubs, so in this House there is also a clear intention and goal to achieve a quality law. And I think if we keep going this way and until the second reading we're doing it right now, we're going to pass a pretty good and quality law that's going to be on both yours and our professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67785	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not a doctor here, but I think I can say something in this section about education. It is therefore very important because medical care, i.e. health activities, is a regulated profession that clearly determines which activities are required by scientific staff subject to specific rules and which activities others can carry out. So, as far as the definition is concerned, I think the number of combinations is the number of hours, the number... A good way to clearly define who can perform an activity and who will be authorised for certain procedures and use it if you also look at European rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, administrations use that method which I think is good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing about the whole legislative framework and health care. So we often have a discrepancy with real needs and laws very often do not follow changes and the state of actually individual professions. Here's specifically when we talk about the example of the sisterhood, ours, we have regulations and a system not only within the education system but rather a health system that actually doesn't motivate someone who wants to study the famous master of the sorority to use that study. Unfortunately, given the current framework, someone is motivated to study the sisterhood to the level of the magistrates primarily to make it easier to work in another EU country because, according to the Professional Qualifications Directive, a certain number of hours, the number of ECTS points needed for such a thing. And I think that even in the health system, means in the health care system and in the Health Protection Act, we need to create some methods, let's say motivations that someone goes one step further in education and achieves those levels of professional qualifications that are already recognised in higher education regulations. Well, I think there's a need for more coordination of just as different resistors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67787	Thank you. Dear Representative Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67788	Dear Representative, a colleague that is necessary here in any case and necessary control is necessary, cooperation between different resolutions is necessary in order to achieve satisfactory results. Yeah, what I think we even see in practice is that it's not necessary now, so there are very high-quality experts who may not even be our assistant professions, and they have results. So we can see that in some examples, so simply in practice. And it's good to one law, to sort out the whole system in a certain way. For example, I don't know, we have pedagogics here that aren't necessarily an auxiliary profession. However, with a certain, therefore, education, a certain education, a certain experience already have some good results and I can also think of entering this system if not a psycho therapist, and those advisory therapists in any case. And that's why this is good this way to regulate this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67789	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is now, slowly and at the end of the debate, when doctors have cracked themselves and said what they think, and at the President's table, Reiner, who is the same academic and our doctor here in the Parliament who has many, let's say we representatives who look at it on the side and who are thinking in fact that for 27 years we don't have a regulated profession that is very important and when we talk about how much trouble there will be in the future in this area and how unfortunately people will have to deal with it more and more with the everyday life and the problems that people are tormenting is normal that there is a great need for such a law. And I'm glad to see here that and probably there's a reason why the Ministry of Social Welfare suggests it, not the Ministry of Health, because obviously there's one big resistance in health circles, to regulate it this way. But that's why I'm glad there are doctors here, and also with my colleague, Cellic, who is our prominent employee from that area of a psychiatric hospital who understands the need to regulate it this way. And on the other hand, of course, there is a need to keep it even normal and to ensure that people have the best possible care and that they have what the state needs to provide, and that is support in certain situations when necessary. What bothers me as a representative of the opposition is to see that in this law which is very important has approached one quite a lot I would say the easy way by the position, or most, although here I say Colic carries it on his back I see a very small interest in the MPs of the majority. So this should be a law that is being discussed from the position of the government, i.e. representatives of the ruling majority, and they should spray proposals, ideas, contributions, etc. And we can see that there isn't. Most of them are being debated by opposition deputies, as if we had replaced the role of colleagues. If there wasn't Mr. Shucker and a few other colleagues, I'd practically think that HDZ isn't there, that there's no trace of them. Regardless of Mr. Rainer's Friday, one is an hour and people are taught not to be there anymore. So let's get a little serious, let's see who the position is, who the opposition is, who should contribute to quality proposals and debates, and not leave everything to one fellow cellist who's standing there doing it and in some ways a man feels like the only one who's made a contribution on behalf of the ruling coalition in that area. On the other hand, I'm a little bit funny to watch here, and here's a colleague from the CNS who's been looking at something under the bench, but when I look at these propaganda materials that they've put in today, I wonder what's even symbolic, now we're discussing this law how much the failure of the Istanbul Convention contributes to the need for this law and how much more work is going to be done because with the fig tree in the pocket of people from the HNS today tells us that they're going to condition something, and the sparrows on the branch know that the HNS can condition as much as I can, for example, Lebron Jems from Cleveland that they don't perform at the next MBM game, so they can condition up to Andrej Plenkovic, or HDZ, or HDZ, but here today they're saying to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they won't give up. So then a colleague comes out and says, "Well, I didn't mean until the 6th month." So that you will be conditional until 2020 at the 9th month, and then you will no longer be subject to any further conditions, you will no longer be important or anyone will ask you any more questions. So your condition has a period of time, and he's 2020. Nine months. And so please remove these papers because it offends me, I would say those who look at us here today, who are in need of this law because you do not show a genuine desire to solve the problem of domestic violence and in the Republic of Croatia. You show that the question is to put someone in Plinar's office or HEP's office, and then they'd see the conditions. Then you'd be conditioned much harder. If Dragan Kovacevic had to move out of Janaf, then the coalition might be on, perhaps be on the questionnaire. But in this way there are no conditions these are stories for little children. And that's why I'm saying I'm going to, despite the fact that the law is not perfect, he still has a lot of need to work out and there are a lot of suggestions that are likely to be a very small number of proposals a day from the ruling majority of HNS until the next time, we're going to definitely contribute to the quality of this law. I'll support him for one gesture to show that this area needs regulation, that I don't think it's crucial what he thinks. Dodik, that it is necessary to be a person of medical profession, that it can be educated, that there are very many people working in the system with people who know a lot more about this job, about the needs of people and of the people who have finished medicine, regardless of what might seem strange to someone, this is not about prescribing medicines and thus treating diseases here is about the therapy that people who can do a great deal of experience in the work and who can, compared to what counterpart Celic said, educate, acquire certain qualifications and allow us to have a much better situation in the future than we are now. And now, thank God we have all those who are offering to help us, so look, sometimes when you turn around at night, when you come home to those programs, that's where everything and everything is offered, people solve problems just need to call a number. Let's get it all serious and do what our citizens really need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67791	Thank you, colleague Maras. You're aware that one part of it you said completely off topic, but you're doing it on purpose always, and then of course you probably wanted to cause my reaction, but you didn't cause it as you saw it. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was requested by the distinguished representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67792	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, a colleague, spoke about a subject that was not the subject of discussion, calling here fellow MPs on the topic that had nothing to do with the Psychotherapy Act, which is currently under discussion. And I'm sorry that that's actually how he ruined this very constructive debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67793	Thank you, that's what I said. Tell me, here's your colleague, Maras, and you're in need of a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I guess what you've hurt the Rules of Procedure or what you want to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67794	I don't know if you need to show your supernatural ability to think, to show what I'm trying to say, but that's not going to work, so don't pass that test, don't take your hand. So, I was gonna tell Mr. President what I'm asking you to do, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67795	What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure, please tell me? What article of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67796	Well, there's an injured article that, all of Chapter 2 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67797	You can't talk like that. Tell me which article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67798	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67799	That in what, you can define that for us?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67800	I can tell you, because you're as president, it's so obvious, you as president can't share my lessons, not go into debate with me, and then you don't finally protect me. Says colleague Jelkovac that I'm careful this humiliated debate. So, this great debate really is a great debate for you. Well, there aren't even five HDZ deputies here. So that's the kind of debate Mrs. Jelkovac would like not to discuss at all. That's what HDZ is. So Maras hurt the Rules of Procedure because he was arguing. Well, gentlemen of the HDZ won't get away with it. So you'd like us to keep our mouths shut, not to talk because Mrs. Jelkovac rebelled, says because Maras was arguing is not good. Maybe if no one had discussed it like you did, maybe it would have been the best debate. I'm sure it would have been the best argument for you if it hadn't been for you to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67801	Comrade Maras, of course, you know that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, and the articles you have listed have nothing to do with anything. But it's your way of working. That's why I didn't even warn you, I even let you talk all the way even though you did. I know that you want to cause some kind of, I know that you want to cause some kind of incident, but it won't work. I will give the replica to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry, too, and I'd like it better if my colleague Maras hadn't praised me or been involved in this debate, because his debate was neither professional nor constructive, nor justified unlike his colleagues Jovanovic, counterpart Jerkovic, Alfirev. And it doesn't matter here in this law, and I'd like to have a consensus on a lot of things like we had here, so because it's not about some topic that's world-class, because they were here primarily professional, reasoned debates, bidding as far on the left, as on the right. Well, we can do it all the time. Unfortunately, it is not rare to see on the left or on the right, that the hall is mostly empty. I also expected that since your wife is working with me, that you will be better prepared and sure that she has suggested certain remarks to you. I believe the debate would be more constructive. Let's stay away from this Friday after 12 hours of politics and let's discuss and do everything we can to make this law as good as possible and bring it in as soon as possible, because we've been waiting too long for you to do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67803	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67804	Thank you very much. Mr. Cellic, first of all, I'm sorry that I commended you. I don't think that's gonna take Plenkovic away from you for evil. So if you can pass it on to Mr. Plenkovic, I will withdraw my praise to Cellic if he will take it for evil that I commended him. Because it's very rare to hear someone say I'm sorry that I commended you. That speaks enough of certain tendencies within the HDZ. The other thing we said about consent. Well, I said I'd be in favor of the law. I don't see what the problem is. So I said I'd support this. But I must also point out, Mr. Cellic, that of the 50, and six, seven representatives of your club, it is the position that makes the contribution. Well, you can't bring this down to one of Ivan Cellic's owners. I'm protecting you, I'm trying to help you. I want the position to do its job, not to technically just do it as our Vice President Reiner figured out, so he shakes his hand, you talk whatever you want, I'll take it all the way. If it lasts up to one and twenty better than to last till three, I'll be home sooner. No, no. This is where we're supposed to talk and we'll talk. And that means a professional debate. So what now is that MPs who represent citizens who listen to what they say about certain topics should not speak at all unless they are those professions. For what? What's the problem? Please make sure that the MPs represent the entire society, all layers of society and that everyone has the right to speak of such an important topic and not act as easy as Vice President Reiner who shakes hands and says let them talk about what they want. That's not what we're gonna do, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67805	The next replica is the respected representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67806	Dear Vice President, here I will commend my colleague, Maras, because that is actually what these discussions are all about. It means that we are discussing and discussing not only those whose profession it is, but also the other representatives. And that's why I'm glad that in the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy we have other professions completely unmedical, choice means doctors, nurses, dentists and those who are sitting there right now. But I'll also tell you you call HNS, but I think it's hypocritical. You were the minister, the government minister who was supposed to ratify the Istanbul Convention. And so you're all to blame and those who don't put on the constituency benches and the SDP who didn't do it during his term, and that should have been the end of the story, because the Istanbul Convention is the best, most optimistic legal framework to protect women and families from violence. That there isn't anything that's happened now, that's gonna scare the victim, that he's gonna drop all the charges because he sees that we as a society haven't helped her. It's a legal framework that helps victims of violence against women and their children to get away, to have a number of shelters, to have psychological support, to have legal assistance, to get out of that hell, not to have to keep it quiet to stay within the family or to withdraw their accusations so they don't find it even harder. That's why you blame each other for HNS, which is completely irrelevant. He can call out in the same day to withdraw his thesis. I think you should have brought it in, but I hope you're inside your club and I hope HDZ has the strength to put it in and finally solve that part. And after that, what's important to us is to do this whole story and do this legal aid all that needs to be done. Because as we've seen, my amendment to the state budget was much bigger. 50,000 have only increased funds for this purpose in this budget since last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67807	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67808	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, here's a confession to a mistake. What do we do now? What do we do now? What do we do now? I admit it's a mistake. We should have brought it. We should have ratified. Is that an excuse now that no one's saying anything anymore? Should we support HDZ in not doing that to Plenkovic? I don't think so. I think exactly the opposite. If you see something you haven't been able to do, you need to make it right. And it's not true that, I think HNS is irrelevant there you're right, but it's not true that they wouldn't be able to take advantage of their position now with their 5 MPs, so even here are fellow minorities, there's Mr Furio, who have the same effect on HDZ. It's a majority of 78 MPs. They can do whatever they want if they really want to, and not if they're selling the story, and basically the interests are something else, they're partial, etc. And I commend you. Here's hoping your colleague Petrov won't sanction you as Mr. Plenkovic might, so he got scared and said he wasn't happy that I praised him. But I now commend you for your efforts. Keep going. I will give you support just as I will support all MPs who want to do something useful regardless of whether they are HDZ, Most or HNS. Just keep going. I'm giving you support because I don't think it's important to argue here like our Vice President Reiner does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67809	Thank you very much. Now, individual psychotherapy will be discussed by a respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as the applicant pointed out in the opening part, the reasons for the submission of this bill are contained in the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, an increasing number of experts have been educated to provide psychotherapy treatment. However, the position of the psychotherapy profession has not yet been regulated by the legal framework, and that is why we are discussing here today. It should be noted that when we pass the law we will be one of the 17 countries in Europe that have the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy. Therefore, the law is necessary because we do not have the profession or the profession of psychotherapy and psychotherapy. So today, from all the debates, we have concluded truly common that this law should be passed. It should be noted that the establishment of the psychotherapy activity was decided in Strasbourg in 1990 when the psychotherapy declaration was established. So, we think it is very important to define psychotherapy as an independent activity since many have completed in this respect demanding education with many hours of experience practice that it is an important activity that can help people in the recovery process, that there are not enough psychotherapists within the health system, that psychotherapy is needed for this and knowledge, skills and experience and that self-called and unprofessional harm. So the damage. That's why this area needs to be arranged. Psychotherapy has been known for the last 50 years, but psychotherapy is not regulated. This opens up a space for any self-called psychotherapists and misleading those persons or users who need such treatment. So what's said today is adequate psychotherapy education has been achieved for years in the group and individually. Some educations last as we have heard for 4 to 5 years a thousand and more hours of experience in the group mile, the obligation to go through their own individual psychotherapy for a minimum of 150 hours, 10 hours of supervision of their own psychotherapy work. We also believe that it is explained in the bill that psychotherapy is not adequately defined within the specialist training of psychiatry. So why? It's defined only through psychotherapy subspecies. What my colleague was saying and it's about subspecialisation of psychotherapy, because all psychiatrists are not also psychotherapists because it's about an additional education of at least 4 years, but not 4 years of specialization, but after that specialization another 4 years or at least 150 hours and personal therapy. As regards the question of whether psychotherapy can be performed by other professions other than doctors and psychiatrists, I note that even now within the system of validation of services by HZZO, psychotherapy can also be treated and shown by psychologists. I note that in clinics this activity is mostly performed by other psychologists, social workers, in some psychotherapy groups and nurses, defecologists all with completed education and licenses because there are not enough psychiatrists who could do so. As regards the outcome of the licence/approval for independent work, it is proposed that members of the Croatian medical chamber will not need additional permission from the future psychotherapist chamber. As for the expertise of psychotherapy routes within the Federation of psychotherapy associations of Croatia that could offer psychotherapy education, I note that they had to meet the demanding criteria of the European Association of Psychotherapy. Today we have psychotherapists all those we want to regulate legally now who have very demanding completed European Association of Psychotherapy and obtaining a license. But we also made it possible for those who do not have it at this time to provide such services within Croatia and charge for it. So we feel further that we should better regulate and define in order to remove some misunderstandings and ambiguities primarily because he is a psychotherapist, and who is an advisory therapist that is not regulated according to today's point of view, and this law will do so. There must also be no dilemma about membership in the professional chamber. Very often certain groups attack Croatia's medical chamber and other chambers at the moment. The chambers have transferred powers to the ministry. The medical chamber has five powers passed on to them by the Ministry of Health, it is primarily a relicence with these others, which is actually a professional part we follow, and based on the points we have achieved, we can get a license again every five years to practice the medical profession. This is why membership must not be optional, it must be mandatory, but what has been passed several times here has already been answered by your colleague, and it will not be without some time limit means any psychotherapist will have to prove to his education that he can continue to have the licence he has been granted, the license. Therefore, in order to avoid possible abuses, it is necessary to legally define the concepts and techniques and methods used in the field of psychotherapy, the distinction of psychotherapist concepts and counseling therapists and to make it clear what psychotherapists can do and what unhealthy therapists do. There were particularly stories on the Committee about whether to prescribe medicines or not? Of course not. And whoever prescribes drugs and is not a doctor will therefore be punished and within the legal now options that we have they may be punished only that must be reported. So there is also a need to remove the ambiguity of using the patient's or client's terms. They're all patients. So we expect the law to introduce more order into psychotherapy circles, to ban those who do not have adequate education from calling themselves and representing themselves as a psychotherapist. This would make the service of psychotherapy more accessible and quality, and that's certainly why we need the law. So, I'm not saying that the law is ideal, I absolutely think it should pass maybe after this first reading that the Mosta Club will support anyway, to move and sit again, to consider all the proposals still invites the profession to the table because in one session three, four years ago, the Medical Chamber took part in making this law, had one opinion, now the Medical Chamber against this bill. So we need to get back on the ball and see what needs to be adopted in order to make this law better. We do not say that it is absolutely something that should go in this form it certainly does not, but that we need the law and that this area should be regulated by it certainly yes and therefore we will support this law and if we should participate on the part of the Mosta, but also by the Committee on Health and Social Policy in its design in order to get a quality law that regulates this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67811	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Chelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67812	Dear Representatives Strenja-Linić, I am pleased with the high degree of consensus regarding this law, although we all have certain criticisms and I believe that these criticisms will be largely adopted. You mentioned psychiatrists, so psychiatrists can be divided into two basic groups, those that are biologically oriented and those who are psychodynamically oriented. The specialisation and subspecialisation of psychotherapy have their own meaning and a different definition of psychotherapy in the context of specialisation and psychiatry in relation to the definition of psychotherapy as set out in the proposal for a law on the activity of psychotherapy. What exactly does that mean to you, say, at Sparrow Hospital, there's a psych ward. But this does not mean that all other departments do not do psychotherapy because at the Institute for Treatment of Dependence it is impossible to work and there is no quality work of psychiatrists as long as he does not include psychotherapy subport minimally, although he may be a dominant biologically oriented psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67813	Reply Dear Representative Strena-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67814	Well, of course, as a neurologist, I'm really leaving you as psychiatrists, too, more actively involved in making a better quality law that will regulate this area. But it's also clear that part of those who conduct psychotherapy will also be unhealthy workers. So you probably have in your department other than doctors and other activities that and persons who carry out psychotherapy and that's good and that's especially important for addicts you do. It is important that the law be passed as high as possible in order to regulate this area so that we know who the psychotherapist is, what education he needs in order to have the right or license to deal with this area, and therefore he can somehow charge for that service. What's a fact which is that today in this area we have so many different people who really are completely needed and can cause and do a lot of harm to these patients as we also know that a part of the psychiatrist is not educated in this sense, and actually without a problem, he can when he charges HZZO to write that he did psychotherapy because he is now allowed to do so. Psychotherapy can only be done by those who have passed adequate psychotherapy education and are licensed under all rules that will only be regulated after this law and the adoption and establishment of a psychotherapist chamber. That's why I think this law should and I think it should definitely support him in his first reading, and then make him as good as possible until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67815	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by state secretary of honor, Maria Pleikosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67816	Thank you, Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. I thank you for this interesting debate, suggestions and remarks that have contributed to the creation of a more quality text of the law that will be provided and better quality service to citizens. From what is said, it is possible to conclude that the clear need for regulation is to ensure control over who is qualified for access to psychotherapy education as well as who meets the conditions for carrying out this activity. It is the only way that citizens will have relevant information on what is a scientifically established psychotherapy practice and will have the option of choice. But they will also be protected from abuse. I will refer to the often repeated remarks about mandatory membership in the chamber and the unlimited duration of the permit. In fact, it is an obligation under the European Internal Market Services Directive to bring all existing laws regulating the area of different activities into line. I would like to stress that this is only the first reading of the law that we consider to be in the process of preparing the corresponding text and, therefore, finally, once again thanking everyone who has contributed to this regulation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67817	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and we'll see each other again on Wednesday, January 24th, at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 182. Have a nice weekend! Session interrupted at 13.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-19-0.u67818	Proposal for a law on psychotherapy, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 249. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the activity of psychotherapy is adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 votes for, 16 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We got two hands in the air, three, four, five. Let's start with a colleague of the Bund. Here you go.
