ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66601	Good morning, everybody! So today is our agenda report on the state of supply for 2015 and 2016 with financial indicators, but first here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66602	I'm looking for a break, please in 10 minutes on foreign investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66603	You got it, you got it. You got it. You got it. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66604	On behalf of the SDP, I'm looking for a break without getting a plane.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66605	Permission granted. Buying a plane. Thank you. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66606	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66607	He's living the wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66608	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the cancer epidemic in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66610	I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on the subject of violence in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66611	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66613	Thank you very much. We'll continue at exactly 10 o'clock. Thank you. It's 9:00.45.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66614	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Independents' Club for Croatia, the first representative, Željko Glasnović, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66615	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This week we were discussing key issues, mechanisms for state without which we can't make a modern state, it's a public administration system, there was a law on the table on strategic investments and how to solve it. We're tapping in place. You have that Doing Business magazine that's a World Bank branch where the investment atmosphere is estimated from 1 to 190, we're here somewhere on building permits, land registration, etc. Somewhere on number 60 and we tap in place. Why is that? Here we have the institutions and the formulations of the law all look the same as in countries that are functional, let's say where the Anglo-Saxon Law rules rule, everything looks perfect. And what's behind that smoke screen, why can't we go ahead? Here is behind that smoke curtain of hordes of bureaucrats, clerks, legal uncertainty, etc. We've got bad preparation, bad performance, that's what the military would say. No state administration can function properly if the rules are constantly changed and if performance depends on bribery, corruption and ineffectiveness. I'm going back to that old homo... from the former system where stealing was allowed everything from toilet paper to generator, we transferred it to this system. When will we begin to lead, when will the leadership begin to function in this country and by decree? When are we going to make clear legal frameworks, strengthen surveillance of personnel, when? Where are the anti-corruption laws? The more bribes that should take more punishment, and here we have legal puss from strategic to tactical level, that's what I said ten times in this House. Someone here discusses professional ethics, we have a party here, a party that recently brought out a verbal smoke curtain, says they're pushing for moral capitalism. Of course, no system can function, at least business and economic without legal ethical frameworks. And two months ago, they said they needed to get back to the '45 collectiveization. A year. Who's kidding who here? That's scary. Here's the personnel that came out of that self-government anarchy where corruption wasn't just the product of that system, but the integral part, we have it today. This is why no one has introduced here since the 1990s, when they tried to hitchhike it, the property origin law, the origin of the property? And you can't take more than $10,000 in a state where there's an Anglo-Saxon law that doesn't ask you about the origin of the property. How do you solve that? Here you have entrepreneurs actually these barons who pay minimum wage, and actually show something else, and the rest goes in the pocket. They have fairies, yachts, and people work for the church. What kind of state is that? I've never heard outside that someone doesn't pay a worker for a month, two months, that employee doesn't have insurance. How is it possible to have 19, 20 companies without any employees? Is that possible? That's scary. This only confirms to me that the thesis that some don't accept when you say it, you're a modern heretic that we haven't come out of that system yet. This is actually just an extension of communism that can be described in one sentence, terror every single one of us at any moment, we have today. And until that mental circuit changes, it will remain in the head of that homo-corruption, homo-Yugoslavnicus, and, of course, if we don't have that legal moral framework in place, no one will come here to invest. We're going to have factories in Lica two, three that today where the investments are hitched, the license is gone, we're going to have a grey industry and another, third generation that rots there on the Adriatic coast, but new investments won't do anything if people don't start running and they don't set up that legal framework that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66616	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Franco Vidovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66617	The tender for the acquisition of the battleplane squadron was concluded on 3 October 2017. The next day, Minister Krsticevic said four bids have arrived and that the US is offering a new F16, Israel and Greece used F16, and Sweden's new Gripen and that the purchase decision will be made within the next two months. He repeated such statements in public several times. Since then, five months have passed, the Defence Committee met in December half and gave its green light to the purpose of obtaining planes. I have to stress this because in public, it is often thought that the Defence Committee chose between bids, which is not true. In principle, the committee gave the green light for the acquisition of a squadron of multi-purpose combat aircraft after all four bids were presented to it, but without a statement which offer is best. And such a decision has passed unanimously on the board. I stress this because there is often a misinterpreted story in the public that the board has chosen the best offer. The Committee, based on its constitution and law, gives only a principle of supply, but does not choose a concrete offer. The decision on a concrete offer is in the domain of the defence ministry proposed by the government, so when the government adopts the decision then it goes to the Defence Council called by the prime minister and president together. Since then, there have been a number of stories about the acquisition of aircraft, which have been caused by a completely non-transparent procedure and by the difficulty of choosing the best offer. They were caused by the other side and the short notice of the competition. Other countries hold such tenders open for a year or two, so when they collect bids, the next two decide on them. It was caused by the minister's promises that everything would be resolved by the end of last year, 2017. The announcements were made in Israeli media that the purchase of the plane was finished after the Israeli and Croatian prime ministers met. They were also caused by the president's last statement, which was clearly fenced from that purchase and is right. Let the government make a decision, stand by that decision, and then I'll call the Defense Council. Due to the entire Croatian public, the SDP must ask a question about the purchase of aircraft and so on. Why didn't we first decide on the means that we were able to extract on the purchase of the plane and then go to the competition instead of going the other way around? The tender was completed in October and the funds were provided in December with a new budget. Why did we unite non-comparable, new and used aircraft in the contest? Why the public is easily determined that the decision will be made by the end of the year. Why did we not leave the possibility of extending the competition and in individual separate negotiations tried to result in a better price, as best conditions for the Republic of Croatia as possible. Why doesn't the MORH inform the public about the course of the whole process and the selection but the information to the citizens comes to the drop and they're always optimistic, the type will be solved until the end of last year. In 2020, when we are chairman of 2020, new planes will guard the Croatian sky and so on. Why did Israeli media announce a job with Croatia? Why the question that I then asked the prime minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia about talks with the Israeli prime minister and announcements in the Israeli media is not answered so far. I assume the Prime Minister knows what they were talking about. And a whole series of questions regarding tendering for the purchase of fighter aircraft is open. The SDP initially strongly supported the strengthening and modernisation of the Croatian military. The SDP government and the parliamentary majority have just proposed and accepted that in all relevant documents concerning the Croatian Army Development Strategy, the focus is on modernising aviation and obtaining new multi-purpose combat aircraft. And that's why the SDP's deputies supported the principled acquisition of new aircraft on the Defence Committee. But that doesn't mean we've given the green light to everything the government does and doesn't mean we've given the green light to the intransparentity and curvature of the whole supply of stories and secrets. Because of the importance, because of the importance of the strategic move that is ahead of us and which will determine for many years the development of Croatian aviation, we in the SDP think that transparency of the entire process is a guarantee of good and quality procurement and clean work. In the SDP, we are looking for answers to these questions on behalf of the entire Croatian public and seeking to encourage the government to the best choice. Clearly on the content of these answers will depend on our further Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66618	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the Independent Lists in the name of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66619	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, At first, I pointed out that it is not good that we are late this morning with a session, and I would not like Parliament to go beyond what is in government chaos and chaos, so here I expect because of the delay and also because of the part where we do not have a vote today and it was only said this morning that we do not have a vote. I'm not going in for reasons, but it's obviously chaos. The opposition obviously saved most of it this time because it took over the late presidency. But we have one topic that I've been talking about since I've been in Parliament and I'm talking about mountainous and mountainous areas, areas where more than 230 thousand inhabitants live, these are areas of the Dalmatian Zagorje, like, the mountainous Kotar and Zagorje. The existing Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area has been in force since 1.1.2015 and has changed seven times by 2002. For three years, the law is, of course, ineffective, inapplicable, and of course, because of the mountainous and mountainous areas, there is also a new law waiting for local self-government because of the emigration of the new areas that I have listed. It's one huge area, it's the largest space in the Republic of Croatia. The only thing we have promises to do in the year 1.1.2016, p. 1.2017, p. 1.1.2018 and is now being announced in those areas of people and people is a lot of false promises. Yesterday I was also in the Gorski Kotar where we have 22 thousand 959 residents on the 2011 census, unfortunately this falls rapidly. There are three cities, Delnice, Vrbovska and Chabar. I was with all three mayors and they warned and pointed out that only they were remembered when the elemental disaster as snow was, however, as snow lands such snow, that the snows of land remained in them, the bills for payment remained with them and that was convinced by my colleague Sladoljev and Pranic, so I can confirm later. So the problem of reducing urban budgets, one of the basic problems has no benefits for entrepreneurs, and of course none in these conditions where they need to invest more for energy and for finding labour without any benefits can neither be competitive nor want. The state should grant benefits to entrepreneurs here. It is not normal for water contribution, water, fees, kilowatts of electricity, and even wood as heating, in Gorski kotar is the same price as in Zagreb, there is the most expensive life. In these most difficult areas people leave, the most expensive life is, and we can see that very easily. The most expensive is the maintenance of infrastructure, the numerous roads that remained after the snow, the slides in Zagorje, the water supply of numerous do not have, are the longest, such is the infrastructure, it is a huge area and there are few inhabitants. The mountain cotar said the problem of the forest, simply these forests in the Gorski Kotar only benefit the Croatian forests and the central state, everything is centralized just to be local leaders of these residents dependent on the government in the Banski dvor, that they must be beggars and not serve their people. Local leaders are literally beggars. We have a mountain-mounted law that has been announced and 5 months have not met the commission for a new law which is more than embarrassing, year after year to promise Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorski kotar and Zagorje a new law. Because of these problems, we no longer have time to wait, most of all, from these areas is evicting people. Me and my colleague Ante Pranic are preparing a new law with experts who will be directed to all mayors and mayors from these areas, but when they do not want the Government and this government to change the law, I hope that together with the local self-government leaders we will propose to you parliamentarians the law to the very specificities of the Gorski Kotar, Like, Dalmatia Zagorje and Zagorje. These areas no longer have time, these areas have been forgotten and we have no more reason to wait for false promises from the ministry to start a new law. And not only that, Chabar was declared regional development as a developed city, it's a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66620	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66621	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we got an answer to my January 30th parliamentary question about the number of cancer deaths, I believe all the MPs are informed, but I want to inform the public of this information. What we have so far suggested, we have now officially, and that is that the number of cancer deaths is constantly growing year by year. These data are more defeated for reasons because the population decreases more and more every year. So, in 2012, 13 704 inhabitants of Croatia died, 2013. 13 788, 2014 13 939, 2015 14 012 and 2016 14 065 of which 8 099 men and 5 966 women. In total, 70,000 people died from cancer in those 5 years, or 28% of the total dead population. This means that today in Croatia, every fourth person dies of cancer. Croatia is at the rate of cancer 6th in the world. I'd like to warn the public because she doesn't notice this problem I don't know why, we see that the media is scaring us with terrorist attacks, we see that they scare us with measles in Serbia, I'm not saying that it's not a problem, that we shouldn't have warned people, but we need to be aware that today and every day in Croatia 40 people die in the most terrible sickness sufferings that have just been rare until recently. For example, imagine. If there was a car accident today where 40 people died, I believe that all the TVs, all the media reported it for at least a week, but when 40 people die, we're going to say it in silence, each for ourselves, just keep quiet about it. I'd like to ask, although the media are already not paying enough attention to it, why the responsible don't react as well. It's also time to ask ourselves why such an epidemic of cancer. How is it that we have more and more cancer drugs, that they are more expensive and more expensive and that at the same time, the number of patients does not drop, but is growing. How do cancer get those people who have no genetic predisposition to it and how do young people and children get it more and more? Is it the import food that Minister Tolusic and Minister Kujundzic agree on at the joint session of the parliamentary committees? Should we ask ourselves whether the glyphosates banned by the European Member States are affected and Croatia approved by 2023, although WHO said that glyphosates are most likely carcinogenic? Are there additional causes of cancer outbreaks from environmental pollution to stress? I would like to appeal to the parliamentary committees to hold the thematic sessions on this subject and also to the Ministry of Health to finally adopt a national strategy against cancer. This is neither the Living Wall nor the HDZ nor any of us individually, this is the whole nation's matter. If we turn around, we will see that the cancer affects both the poorest citizens and the largest social cases as well as the parliamentary representatives, as well as the presidents of the Parliament, as well as the biggest rich people in Croatia, everyone is equally exposed and therefore we should all be concerned because we can practically all ask ourselves together who is next in line. I call for us to turn to saving people's lives, to make an analysis, to bring preventive measures, to fight this vicious disease, because if we save only 1,000 lives a year from these 14 grand, we'll have something to be proud of when we remember our mandate, and I'm sure we can cut these black numbers in half if this catastrophic situation becomes our priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66622	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Dodig will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66623	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The topic I want to talk about today deserves a lot more time, not because I think I need a lot more time, but because it's really complex. The subject is violence. Violence, I'd say, as a general phenomenon. We can talk about violence in different ways. So we can talk from a psychological aspect, which is what makes an individual a bully and why at certain times he becomes a bully. We can talk from a sociological aspect, why in certain areas violence is more present and why it is not in other environments. We can talk about violence from a legal and criminal aspect, so let's see what legal provisions and the implementation of those provisions, how we prevent violence, and how in some way we send over those convictions that are a legal and criminal message that violence is unacceptable. We can talk more with a lot of aspects of violence. We can talk to biological aspects why certain people are more violent in biological terms, so to speak, than others. Why others accept other patterns of behavior, some of which are strictly rigid acts of violence, and how much biology can affect it. But there's no time for that at this point, so I'll just mention different types of violence. Often we talk about violence that is of a physical nature, and that is what impresses us, and we forget some other types of violence such as emotional violence that is so present today that it has become everyday. Referring to this, my colleague Bunjac, referring to what you said about stress as one of the possible factors in cancer, then I assure you that stress is hardly mentioned as a serious risk factor in the development of cancer, and when we associate it with emotional violence, then we see that it is absolutely necessary to discuss that part as well. And for that, why am I talking about it in the House? Because the Parliament is an institution where a lot of violence is manifested by administrations in this manner of emotional violence. Today we are inclined to look for all solutions in society, investment and economic indicators. However, the emotional violence committed in this House, where people are labeled, where problems and phenomena are not spoken of as such, but simply, became a rule that many of us are wondering what I needed to do? Because of the continued violence of calling colleagues by name and last name, dictated how they would behave, on the basis of the assumption that someone is a thief, he is told that he is a thief. Based on an article he read somewhere that he's a criminal, he's been told he's a criminal. My dear gentlemen, if there's any violence to be prevented, then it's in this institution. Unfortunately, however, this institution has received attributes of violence. I ask you to take care of this and not replace freedom of speech with violence as a method of political reckoning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66624	Thank you very much. Here, let us take advantage of the occasion before the last replica, before the last performance of the club to welcome students' gallery "Ivan Supek" from Zagreb. Give it up! Especially these messages of violence, I think they're very useful to young people. We will now go to the last club, which is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Djakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66625	My colleagues and colleagues, so here today is the topic of obtaining fighter aircraft in the Republic of Croatia, and we can say something about the fact that transparency in the conduct of the tender was so great that in the Croatian Parliament it was clearly shown by slides and figures all that came as offers by 3 October 2017, and the decision that should be taken on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the contract was concluded between the governments that they had offered, among those offers that would be considered. To achieve the ultimate objective of the long-term objective of modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia's Republic of Croatia through such procurement, the government will make a contract for the procurement of the squadron of aircraft needed to achieve the ultimate objective of the long-term objective of modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, what can you say when we hear certain references to those who should be silent today? The Croatian squadron is significantly weakened by the remonting in Ukraine, there have been failures in control, contractual forms, investigations are conducted, and there are no details of this investigation, because one of the actors has admitted to taking bribes, and those who today have potential non-transparency, talk about where he is in a hurry or being late or having some hidden motives, clearly concerned those who participated in the remont 21 and who are likely to have the greatest responsibility of which was once spoken at the joint hearing of the Defence Committee, when all the participants were present in which a lot of the untruths were brought about about the remont of moments. It is necessary to get a new squadron as quickly as possible, quality and contract with private companies that work for the states, not exactly an option. The government with the government when it enters into a contract, and then there is also investment in the development and modernisation of the repair office in Zagreb or Croatia, investment in the economy and agriculture of certain bidders who have committed themselves to it, clearly says how transparent is throughout the system of obtaining this aircraft, which is actually produced or the USA is a product that is modernised in Israel, if it will be chosen. If a new one is to be selected, which has not yet been decided, we believe that the means should also be provided. Of course, in what we can see in the past, a significant increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, as well as the projections that were created, already in 2018-2019, as well as further, clearly states that 1.23% of the share in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, as well as insurance for the repayment of these planes, when they are decided to buy and when contracts are concluded. It is clearly presented on the Defence Committee, as defined in these offers, what kind, which means, and what the welfare will do to the defence forces of the Republic of Croatia, but also the economy, which is offered by which country or supplier. Of course, the company that manufactures in airplanes cannot be in the same position as the state that makes the contract and I don't think some people want to understand or want to cover up what's still going on with the MiGs 21. 4 are grounded and are not functional, their numbers do not correspond to reality and are required from Ukraine to replace. This is what has been missed in the past, which clearly speaks of the machinations that have been made and we hope that the investigation will reveal as quickly as possible, who has all participated in such unholy work, who has damaged the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and who has impoverished the fighting power and the protection of our homeland as well as the sky. We believe that this is a motive due to today's currentity, which honors the minister of defence of the Republic of Croatia, in choosing the best performers, who will be the best of the armed forces, but also for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u66626	Thank you. We will now move to the agenda, finally and the first point for today is: - The report on the state and management of the stock for 2015 and 2016, with financial indicators the Government submitted this report based on Article. 6 The Strategic Stocks Act, but the discussion was carried out by the Committee on the Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mr. Mario Antolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74893	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Dear MPs and representatives, we have before us a report on the situation, before you and the management of the stock for 2015 and 2016, with financial indicators. It is a united report, and it is a united report, and the reason is that there was no time to accept it when trying to submit the last report. Therefore, a report on the state and management of commodity stocks, for 2 years from which it is apparent that business and stockholding, in the reporting years, took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to budget and budgetary users, and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law provides that strategic stockpiles are to be created to provide basic supplies at a time of war or direct threat and independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical technological and ecological disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to rest the urgent assistance of other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. In 2015 total revenue of 116 million kuna and expenditures of 126 million kuna were generated, with a deficit of revenue of 10 million kuna, which is covered by revenue surplus and income from previous years of 13.6 million kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The total revenue of 115.8 million kuna and the expenditures of 114, resulting in a surplus revenue of 1.7 million kuna, which is used mostly for current, additional investments in its own warehouses, with the resources of the surplus incomes of 115.8 million kuna. The purchase of goods and the complete balance of strategic stock stocks was carried out in 2015 amounting to €91.6 million and €91 million in 2016. The total value of the stock on 31.12.2015 was €487 million and €567 million on 31.12.2016. The Director's Department of Stocks has been actively involved in the supply of the population in the flooded areas of Vukovar-Srijem County since the first day of the disaster in cooperation with the State Administration for Protection and Rescue until 30 September 2015 by delivering goods and strategic supplies for the purposes of the Red Cross cuisine and the care of the population. Total delivery of goods in 2014 amounted to 23.6 million kuna and another 6 million kuna in 2015. Since mid-September 2015, due to increased arrival of migrants in the Republic of Croatia, there has been a need to intervene with strategic commodity supplies for the purpose of providing them. In that year, in 2015, the total supply of goods amounted to HRK 17.4 million, and in 2016 another circus of 2 million. The goods supply also provided humanitarian aid to the Republic of Turkey by delivering thousands of first aid kits to help care for refugees from Syria. The Directorate for Stock Stocks was also responsible for coordinating the acceptance of international assistance for the needs of migrants. This same principalship was given during 2015 and the 16th year of single goods aid to Caritas for the purposes of soup kitchens by delivery of flour, oil, fish and meat cans, milk and eggs powder and other goods worth approximately 10 million kuna. From stockpiles, a total of 19 were intervened multiple times by delivering housing containers for the purpose of providing vulnerable families. Also given are the use of 23 multi-purpose water taxis, 10 lifeboats with a transport trailer, and 27 sandbags in areas most threatened by floods. As a result of the elemental disasters that have hit us in collaboration with the State Protection and Rescue Authority, strategic stockpiles are increasingly being used, and further completion is more important in order to enable more efficient use and availability of supply supplies. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for your attention, and I call for the report to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74894	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74895	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My replica refers to one fact, i.e. the cost of maintaining the warehouse in 2015 is less than 25% compared to the year before, so I'm curious about how many warehouses there are and what happened. So these are maintenance costs, infrastructure costs and everything else. So, logically, it can vary in some small percentage. Since this is about one serious percentage, I'm curious about what happened years ago and I'm curious about how many warehouses there are. Thank you. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74896	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74897	So we own six warehouses, and these costs are related to investments from 2014 and are put into use later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74898	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the esteemed representative, Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome the Secretary of State and the associate from the stock exchange. Here is a report on the work for two years of the State Stock Commission, and this is, like any report, the opportunity to discuss it and to learn from this report through analysis and discussion of this report, we try to give our guidelines, new guidelines for strategic development of these important, important institutions. The Committee on Stocks and the Ministry has given us a report in which clear financial indicators are through the 15th and 16th years, and we can certainly discuss in a way that needed a more detailed report or not, whether this financial report satisfies our interests in this area. I would refer here more to what these stock stores are for, and these are some difficult times, which also determines this instrument to provide supplies, to prepare ourselves for these situations when it is potentially a difficult situation which is caused by a war situation that we have experienced, but with what is more common, these are basic disasters or some serious accidents that may affect some part of Croatia. Well, here's the report from the secretary of state, and that's what we've heard in the report that we've got concrete examples of where the stock interventions were in the flood in Gunja, in the refugees, the refugee wave that hit Croatia, but also helping other countries specifically Turkey to help refugees from Syria that we directly helped. So this is also the possibility of intervention in our major accidents and accidents and assistance, international aid to other countries that are also at risk. But it also means the possibility of us getting help from other countries for our possible crisis situations. It is very difficult to make real scenarios for difficult situations, but the experience which we have, unfortunately, Croatia and war experiences, as well as experience for the elemental disasters or major accidents that we have experienced in the past 20 years or 30 if we are looking at and the war situation in our country gives us the right to make right strategies here from acquired experiences during the time that comes and the dangers that can affect the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I think that this ministry is doing well and that goods supplies through its work and activities are making good strategies, good scenarios, plans for a potential potential threat that can affect Croatia. How difficult these conditions may have been, we may have seen, and media information was in the last situation when in Ireland I think it was in the big ice, so the population ran out of basic foods, blocked the whole area, large amounts of snow, the ice eventually resorted to breaking down the Lidl shopping center with some bulldozer, and their warehouses violently taking food to survive in these times. So here is why it is important for us in our organization to see what we can do and what this High Reverend House can do through its proposals, through this analysis and the report that we have received, with any suggestions, clearly define a strategy of behavior in these times and such. It is clear that the State Administration for Protection and Rescue is working to distribute, demand, needs because it manages crisis situations and in those times and plans for such times, and the basis of experiences or good plans for advances clearly defines what is needed. So other than this nutritious part, we have this part technically or not nutritious. Here's how I come from the field of fire is our most interesting technical part, and there's the government, the ministry, and the state supply has done good activity in Croatia long ago through the purchase of technical goods. Here is a particularly large aid or large support to the local administration's purchases of tanks. As you know, we also have problems with water supply in the dry areas, or part of Croatia that has no water supply, and there is certainly an important supply of these drinking water tanks that are in crisis conditions, but here are the fire situations as it was this summer, then it is also intervened with these supply tanks in the areas they need. It is very important that these tanks are located in voluntary fire companies, public fire departments that take care of it because in the report you received from the debate you see the amount of funds. There was also a question here through the replica, how much it pays for storage and storage to store these goods, specifically food products, foods, and, in one act, when you give that tank to a voluntary fire company, then they take care of that tank and secure responsibility for the... critical moment and in the situation where we need it then it is given specifically to the State Administration for protection and rescue at the disposal to intervene in the areas where it is needed. And certainly there is thinking, we see the existing costs here in the financial plan are given concrete costs of how much storage costs and how much funds are invested in storage, and also in the list of goods is given us a review and strategic stock supplies that were obtained in 2015 and 2016, so you have an insight. We have all the concrete quantities that Croatia has and the values that were needed for this. So perhaps we should now work through this analysis and propose from our experiences what else we need or what possible crises have shown to us that Croatia should at these times of crisis, and possibly not, although the law defines what goods and quantities should contain are normally determined in relation to the financial situation and government decisions for each year. Surely we should... the overall state in the country, here I am going back to these drinking water tanks, to have as many of these tanks and perhaps appeals from our today's session and this debate of the government to ensure even greater amounts of money for next year because with some fifteen tanks that we are planning annually or in a few years are small for the needs that Croatia has. Clearly, it is not the obligation of the State goods supply to take care of the tanks in the area but rather of the crisis situations, but I say they have fulfilled their purpose, as well as the aggregates, the pumps for large floods. There are six stores here if I'm not mistaken for these big pumps, and this year the purchase of new ones is planned. You saw when the crisis conditions of the flood were as much as we needed those quantities at the time. We have another situation, that civil protection that cares about these states or the State Protection and Rescue Authority in crisis states then she buys equipment, keeps it in warehouses, now in the new time they're putting on the ground their equipment. But mostly whatever it takes to do everything through this analysis to use this today's stock exchange report and recommend what we as agents see in our fields, or that it should or should not be in this list of strategically all the stock supplies we have, and to ensure the sudden potential conditions that may be through elemental disasters or major accidents. Generally, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this report, votes for normal and provides support for further activity, i.e. funds, new funds and always fresh funds for supply of goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74900	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74901	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm a colleague of Sanader's. I am glad that you have once again highlighted the importance of stocking as a tool or instrument that the state reacts in crisis situations and must certainly make sure that the adequate amount of resources from the state budget is allocated to resupply in stockpiles, primarily because of these crisis situations, but also because of the correction of the disturbances in the market for certain food products and others. I volunteered for the replica to point out once the importance in these crisis situations of voluntary fire companies' activities and to use these experiences from crisis situations when it was defended from the flood in 2015 in the area not only of the County towards the east but also of the subjugation of both the Brod-Posavina County and the Požega-Slavon County, that we had daily movement from 170 km from 3 to 5 thousand people in defence of the flood and that the majority of these were units from voluntary fire companies. And it was seen there that a lot of equipment was missing and that a lot of equipment and had been killed in the defense against floods from uniforms, shovels, axes, and that you emphasized the lack of pumps for the rapid pumping of that water, were particularly dangerous coastal waters in the water streams and later through the pumping of wells to provide citizens with drinking water. And a lot of those pumps got hurt, and I think we need to make quality plans so we don't get surprised by these situations again, that we have enough tools and equipment and pumps. And here you mentioned in particular the drinking water tanks because our voluntary fire companies had mostly existing technical water tanks, none of them had drinking water, one was dislocated now in Nova Gradiška, it is necessary to reconsider that deployment and ensure that we are well distributed from Ilock to Dubrovnik that we have a high-quality water supply opportunity for our citizens in such crisis situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74902	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed member of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74903	Thank you. Here's an esteemed colleague of mine. I couldn't agree more with you. This is a good help tool because no local self-government unit has such reservations. Now, you've mentioned one detail, I don't know 500, 1,000 people have at one point been on a flood protection move and in these and those scenarios of our unit of local self-government, and regionals don't have the potential or the reserves, they have certain plans that can intervene in such situations. But it often surpasses the plans for budgets down at the local, regional administration, and then the state needs help. We've seen it in the snow now. Some small municipality, it does not have such capacity that it can financially, it predicts, each predicts normally such situations but has no financial potential that it can respond to major accidents that occur or elemental accidents. Also, this is for fire, everyone's getting, organized equipment and fire department technique, to protect their area. But such an elemental accident when they come, they certainly don't have enough potential. And that's why it's important that we use this tool and that we Parliamentarians encourage and constantly demand that it be renewed, improved and that more resources be allocated. Because it is also one equality or one decentralisation of funds and this one is very useful and therefore it is also necessary to encourage here and through the budget to allocate more funds for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74904	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sanader, here I want to join your appeal to encourage as much equipment as possible through the supply office means primarily drinking water tanks and other equipment that you mentioned, pumps, intestines etc.. I think it's a very good model precisely because the local self-government units themselves sometimes who, in general, finance volunteering, have no means of getting vehicles themselves and then, in this way, the state makes it very easier. But also, as you said, volunteer firefighters who have a hard time getting to the equipment and get to the vehicle are very good guards and they care very much about it, and they know how valuable it is when they get to run one of these tanks. In 2015, if I remember correctly, there was a supply of about 21 or 23 vehicles, I don't know now, and it turned out to be very good. And I think that this model really needs to go on and not to, and it should also be said here that if a vehicle is assigned to a city or a municipality to keep it, let's say that it's doing activity in that area at that time, it doesn't mean that it's fixed only there, but in some extraordinary circumstances, the thing from that place is pulling back and going where it's needed and coming back. So it's really a good model. And here I am joining your appeals and I think that we, as representatives, really need to encourage these activities at every opportunity. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74906	Thank you very much. The next one is a club of MPs, and I'm sorry for the response of the esteemed representative Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74907	Dear colleague, clearly, we agree that although we must not agree that this is a model, we should always seek decentralisation of funds, that is, what should always be fought to decentralise the funds, to allow units of local self-government to be able to get what they need. But the reality is like that, and it certainly won't change quickly. And now many, poorer, especially poorer areas, we have nothing to help large centres, powerful and powerful but many areas, here we often mention the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia and I don't know our poorest areas and others where there are organized forces. It's good that this is how these strategic stock stores are created, because here's the fire departments, they're very mobile. So that's where the vehicles are kept and the confirmation of the quality of the vehicles is that, unfortunately, we are in Croatia today, 25 years old, the average of fire vehicles aged. So if the firemen have kept their vehicles for 25 years, then you can know how much they're going to store these new tanks that they're potentially getting out of stock. So we should take advantage of this model and potentiate that more resources should be allocated through the supply supply supply, which should certainly be encouraged through the budget tomorrow and now we should appeal to them professional services in stock stocks to show it as their own need and we representatives here to give our support through this debate and through the adoption of this report to be one requirement to isolate as many drinking water tanks as possible because they are really needed and have a multiple function because other than supplying the population with drinking water can serve in major accidents and to put out fires.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74908	Thank you. Now we're going to the next Club of Representatives and that's that GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74909	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an assistant, co-workers and colleagues. We have a report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2015 and 2016 with financial indicators and we at the GLAS Club and HSU will support this Report. However, this report also opens a number of other topics to be considered and to be considered. I'd only like one technical thing first. So, when the next report shows a state of supply, we might be able to separate those foods from the non-food ones because when you look at it a little bit, then you have jam, so behind the jam you have, I don't know, a lot of oil, and then behind that you have a little flour, so that maybe we structure a little bit, it'll be easier to follow. However, from the level of the state to have and as a strategic topic of supply is extremely important. It is extremely important in the context of something I use, I must admit, every opportunity in this House to speak, and these are climate change. Climate change is a fact. We won't get away from it. Against climate change is fighting in another way, and the result of climate change is what? In the summer months, fires in the age of so, early spring, behind the winter break of the flood. It's one part that's related to climate change. And we have another topic of migrants going across the Republic of Croatia. So these are two separate topics. When it comes to this first subject and climate change, the result of the flood will certainly, without wanting to be a wicked prophet, be a skating point in the next period. Therefore, a large amount of flooding, especially in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, will result, i.e. the melting of snow and everything else, will result in slides. And it is therefore extremely important that, apart from this part of the stock, we speak to strategic stockpiles that, for example, character, or food, are strengthened and in the future provide more funds for tents, for containers, for what our colleague said about fire trucks. We just have to do it and we have to be prepared for it. There are some systems in the Republic of Croatia that regardless of that and that are absolutely beyond all political commitment, that work. Some of what works traditionally is fire, traditionally works the red cross, traditionally works the system of assistance. So where absolute citizens of the Republic of Croatia are unique, and that's when you need to help. However, you must have a tool in your hands with which you can help. I remember the topic when they were flooding in... , then we missed it during the flood was the problem and the tents, behind it was the container problem, behind it was the problem and the boats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot of containers have been purchased and containers are a good way and perhaps there should be more of them in the stock we have, and behind the flood there was a problem with the desiccant. We have been supplying desiccants in the area of Europe, i.e. we have borrowed, we have returned everything else. So it was one elemental disaster indeed, or one disaster that was declared a disaster from the state level. However, what we must be prepared as you see these days is being prepared to prepare a flood defense system in the area of the Karlovac County because it is expected. So Croatian waters follow these flows well. You see exactly how the stream grows somewhere and you see what happens next. So that's one topic we absolutely need to take care of. But believe me, however, the consequences of all this will be skating. When these slides are in areas where people don't live, so outside the building area, it's a little bit of a problem. However, the problem is always the impact of the slide on infrastructure. If the slide takes you one road or takes away some of the water supply and disposal, you have a big problem and that's something we'll have to deal with in the future. So you can always have part of prevention and take care of prevention. But you can't always have it every time. And the second topic is, what we saw last summer is, I apologize. And the second topic is, what they had a chance to see last summer, which is fires. The same is true for you is the topic of prevention and the fires that arise because there is no average and because they have settled some other species that are not acceptable for that area. However, when fires come near construction areas, or near the settlement, of course there is no one left without emotion and that any help is welcome. So, in conclusion, what I'm saying is this, I think it's absolutely necessary to make sure that what they've been stockpiling so far and the way they've formed. Times change. So we have to take different care of them. You used to have this formula for some things and that was it. So we have to keep an eye on the facts. If something happens to you one year, it may be a coincidence, but if you're going a few years in a row or a decade, then it's no longer a coincidence but a story that is. So one of the topics is migrants. The whole of Europe will certainly be taken into account with migrants. Not only did she lead, but still, and Croatia is one of the roads to go, but the other topic is to end climate change. Climate change resulting from floods and slides, climate change resulting from fires. So the part that's related to the food supply, so the food character of the supply supply, that's absolutely fine. But what needs to be strengthened are non-food - tents, vehicles, containers, water pumps, dryers and a number of things. And in that, of course, no one expects it to be in those seven right now if I'm not wrong about the warehouses you listed but that it fits the facts that, therefore, follow what's going on, answer to it. It is the responsibility of all of us to make sure that there are enough resources in the budget for our stock to be defined in a way that has the opportunity to intervene, that there is an opportunity to buy. So once you go through something, then the next time you have to learn something from it. We've been through a huge flood in Cvelferia so far, we've been through migrants who went through Croatia, we've been through the summer of fires that I have to admit have been unremembered or the way that it turned out to be one and the other proportions, after you've been through the experience you have to be such that you have to have something in stock, you have to act preventively, and you need to know something about where to get it. So it's another thing to record that we know where something can be obtained under some kind of extreme conditions. So we at the GLAS and HSU club are going to support this report, it's kind of a suggestion that maybe for the next little bit different, but that's just a suggestion, that we're being followed more easily. But the role of all of us is to know the role, the importance of supply and to provide enough resources to be able to react-react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74910	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Kazmir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. In plain dictionary, you've hit the srid. You have warned of problems or conditions in which strategic stock supplies and operate. They are no longer market regulators, the function is lost. Therefore, this division of food and technical products is necessary. However, I fully agree with your debate, but I think that in one detail alone, we are potentially slightly different in general, in money. If we keep most of the stock balances strategically in money, then it will be very difficult to get the necessary goods in case of climate, extreme, etc. the change because they are also subject to the Public Procurement Act at the end of the line. So, some things we can't predict, we can project, they're floods, droughts, etc. The fires I think should primarily go to the purchase of this technique and that it stands not in stock stores but to go on the ground and thus through depreciation, through use can be bought again by new machinery, only in that part. I think most of it's not in the money, it's in the tech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74912	Thank you very much. Answer, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74913	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I didn't hit the srid, otherwise I know what I'm talking about. It's a joke on the side. Indeed, when it comes to strategic commodity supplies, there is a time for change, as all other things change, and so do they. I have one holdover, one dilemma, you have as it is in some other PIC stuff, so at one point you have an absolute need and it's not my idea that there might be money but that maybe we have a record of where to borrow something, do something. And I can really agree with your part of the discussion, it's important that some things don't stand in storage. I know how to say it often and I think that each of us understands, you can have a new apartment, best equipped and most ideal if you keep it locked for five years, after five years when you get into that apartment, there's definitely not gonna be anything going on or on the radiator or something's going to be wrong. So I also think it's not good that something is standing in a warehouse for God's sake one day in a country where we always have financial problems and that it's good that, in that part, I would agree with you that what we have to use is good, that we take care of it, but it's good and that we know in some extreme situations where we borrow something, where we do something, and then it can be done in some different way because now I know. We already know that we have a flood problem, we even know in which parts of Croatia we have a flood problem, we know that in some parts of Croatia this flood problem will not be solved for some time until the dam, the system and everything else we know is looking for time. There are even countries that have decided that there are areas that let them go blue, and then they do some damage and some things, and we have a fire problem. So it's not new, it's not since yesterday, all Mediterranean countries have a problem with the fire there and Croatia and we have to take care of prevention there, but we also have to make sure that it can work in quality and time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74914	Second and final replica, Mr. Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74915	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. You've talked well about lessons learned and we have many lessons learned, but with all this we can't have the proper strength to answer because look at me today we have the age of a fire vehicle 15 years in professional units, and 25 years in voluntary units. And now it's a reality and it's not easy overnight to solve. But I think this tool of supply can help us, too, because here's the flood, specifically, some of our small municipalities that are here in flooded areas, they don't have the power to buy that big pump of 20,000 gallons of water because it's too much of a cost to them and that's the level where the state has to worry about such things. The state has ten such pumps, that the state has 100 drinking water tanks, it has to be a state tool. Okay, there are European funds, it's done through European funds, but we have to have this thing that's state intervention, and state interventions are just big water tanks, big pumps, not those little pumps, mudkens, and so everyone has every society, but those who have 20,000, 30,000 gallons per minute are tools that can have state intervention. Because it can't be bought by a small municipality, it doesn't have budgetary opportunities, it doesn't need it in the long run. And what you were saying about fires and forests, another big problem for us is agricultural land because everything, our agriculture is abandoned. There is no big farm in Dalmatia, but what we have is abandoned. And that's why every little fire in Dalmatia always blows from sea to land and from land to sea turns, can turn into a big fire. It's good, through the Agricultural Land Act and through other tools, we have to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74916	Mrs. Dark-Taritash, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74917	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader is absolutely exactly what you said. It's absolutely inappropriate, and they don't need local self-government units to get something that's roughly local self-government units, I'd say maybe a fifth of their budget. And it's simply not their job, it's the role of the state. Otherwise, when we talk about one topic of sustainable development, then the role of the state is to enable the sustainable development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia to be quite uniform. And there's the role of the state that they're actually solving their need through stockpiles, that's what makes it possible. And that's just how it has to be, that's what we need to take care of, and that's where the state has to take over its role and its significance. When it comes to fires, I can absolutely agree with you here. I'm very happy to suggest that you look at the cards that I've served in the business for some other reason, that's February 15, '68. And then when you look at any part of the Republic, regardless of whether it's Slavonia, whether it's a space by the sea you see how the land was processed. You are absolutely out of these cards not only to see which houses were built, I am interested in this in comparison but you can see that the land was working, that the land at one point for certain reasons stopped working, that in Dalmatia the development of tourism was reduced because people began to deal with other businesses, had left their land, it had grown into a Makia, behind it came a pine tree which was not at all autochton and for this area, and in fact, the non-maintaining of agricultural areas had turned into an abandoned area which during the fires up. So it didn't happen yesterday, it happened, there's a series, a series of reasons why, at this point, it's prevention and recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74918	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debates. Mr. Sasa Djujic, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I would like to point out at the beginning that we will support this report in the Club of Representatives of the SDP for both 2015 and 2016, it is very content and comprehensively written and should be commended. I would like to join my fellow colleague Mrak-Taritash's appeal that it may be simply to make it easier for us MPs to review in the future to separate this food part from the technical part. But despite this, the report is extensive, the report is detailed with all financial amounts so that there is no hiding inside and everything can be clearly seen. I'm not going to go into the details of those numbers either, but I'd like you to point out a few things in the SDP. So first, we think that in the last 10, 15 years today, the system of supply supplies in the Republic of Croatia is certainly upgraded and much more quality than it was before, and it is a testimony that we do not remember 20 years ago some negative connotations when the mention of supply supplies, the disappearance of cereals in Slavonia, theft, etc., and I can proudly say that the last 15, 20 years do not have the opportunity to hear such negatives which is good, which shows that the system has developed over time. What is equally good and visible in this report is that it gives a chronology not only purely, structurally in 2015 and 2016, but also a cross-section of the work of stock stocks in the last 10, 15 years, which shows this development of the system and shows this progress. And what we want to praise is exactly investing in these control systems, means more is being invested in control, in the education of warehouses, in the maintenance of warehouses, in the protection of the goods themselves, and in the goods supply that maintains quality and leads to all that. And when we talk from 2015 and 2016, here I want to praise here the Department of Stocks which made a big contribution in the floods, especially Gunja and that part of Slavonia where it has just proved that in crisis situations such as the large scales and later in the migrant crisis of the end of 2015 that the state has a system, that the state under such big unexpected and unexpected events still works and where the stockpiles have been played, where not only through food and through this part, but also through containers has enabled residents of the temporary home until their homes are brought back into office so that they can return. And that all shows the development of stock supplies, but also what's most important, the creation of a system that works and in which it's known exactly that it has a head and tail and that it's known in crisis situations how we're going to function. And these two events, meaning the migrant crisis and floods in 2015, have shown that Croatia is ready for both major elemental disasters and other things that can hit us and that, certainly, the supply office has a role to play in this. What I also want to join and emphasize here is once again as my colleagues before me and that is this system of drinking water tanks that works well, which until we get decentralisation and a little reinforcement of fire in Croatia. I wouldn't want to talk too much about the fire department right now because it's not a topic, but we should talk about it in our House of Fire soon, too. But certainly these little societies, here's to not repeating myself too much is in any case one big help. But I want to take a chance here so I can ask you a question. So, in 2015, as I said through the supply management system, some 23 tanker drinking water was allocated, I know because I was the chairman of the supply board during that period. Among other things, the Bedekovčina municipality received one fire tank for use on DVD Poznanvec, which was withdrawn in 2017 and sent to the coast due to the fire season, is specifically located today in the Baška Voda DVD and when it was withdrawn from Bedekovina, it is said that it goes there until the end of the fire season that has ended, that tank has not yet been returned, I have no doubt that the colleagues in the DVD Bedekovina same fire vehicle should not, but if it was given then it would be ok to be there and to use it, you probably have reasons why, but I would like to hear that question about whether it will come back or not and my colleague Hajdaš Doncic asked that question 24.1., until today, so here I will take this opportunity to ask you what it is, but I would not want to be able to be in any way, because we never really follow up. If these vehicles are just assigned from 2015, then it is a very colorful assignment, that there were municipalities in which both HDZ and then the ruling option and SDP were in place. It wasn't the political commitment of a community that was seen in essence, but they were seen exclusively out of self-deservation, so I'd like to keep it that way, so I'm asking you just to answer this question for me. And secondly, here I join all my colleagues before me, another proof that it is doing well is that there are no negatives and that I and in this debate have not heard any of my predecessors, not one bad thing, let's just say, you just encourage in your further work and ask for more, I see that you have the support of the MPs and there you will certainly get from all of them and so it should be still and here, I wish you a lot of success in the work and we will once again stress support these two reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74920	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas I've seen. ... Mr Ivan Lovrinović will speak now, we only have two individual discussions and you can finally answer. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our topic today is the report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2015 and 2016, I am using this opportunity and to highlight and warn the public who is listening to us now, today is March 2018, we are only now discussing reports from 2015 and 2016. On the other hand, there are also reports on the work of the CNB for 2016 that no one here can put on the agenda. There's a report from 2015, 2016 for the State's Attorney's Office, and it's not coming up on the agenda. So I ask the President of the Croatian Parliament not to use his position to put topics as he likes it. But I'm going back to what we're dealing with today. When we look at these stock reports, here you praise each other, the SDP praises HDZ, HDZ SDP, I don't know what reason or perhaps you haven't read the reports that came to us here. What is the basic question of what is the supply system for? It is certainly the first and important function for him to intervene in the event of natural disasters affecting certain parts of Croatia, because this country as well as any state must organise and protect its population in such cases. However, the second task to be carried out by the State reserves, i.e. the market share, is therefore to be corrected on the market so that there is no strong oscillation of the prices of certain primarily agricultural products, there is no such thing here. So here's a few concrete examples because I'm always dealing with concrete numbers and data. So at the end of 2015, it is said here that the total value of the stock was around 384 million kuna. What was the structure of the stock? I'm asking the question. First of all, what is the relationship between the domestic and the import components? First of all, when it comes to food and agricultural products. There's no record of that in the report or in the letter. Why? Because it doesn't matter if we import these first and foremost agricultural products, that's how we make our balance worse, our trade balance, or how we help domestic producers, above all, farmers. Therefore, stockpiles can play an important role in improving the position of agricultural producers. What further can be said about this segment? From the strategic stock that I said was 384 million kuna at the end of 2015 on food and agricultural products, 157 million kuna. Again, I ask the question, how much of this amount is 150 million kunas of domestic goods and how much is imported? Next important question. Who's in charge of supply management, gentlemen? It says here that it's done by the department of supply. It's like in the CNB system that the advice of the CNB is made by all the people who run the CNB. So they advise themselves. That's how people control themselves here. The party Changed Croatia requires that it be changed, means that this is made more transparent, that the composition or supervision of this segment be a representative of the Parliament, that it be a representative of the commodity reserves, non-political associations and that we have much more transparent reports in this case. In this context, the report should include the following. It's not a good report that you're just saying through public procurement it's gotten as much and as much of this stuff or those goods, because it's very important as they are so-called. large purchases, and how much abject purchases are. Because you've got a situation with us that sometimes through the bazaars, they become not to say the same and the big purchases. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in the report here, and I propose and demand on behalf of the party that we change Croatia to make these reports even more quality and credible. What else can be seen in this account? It can also be seen here that the claims on stock stocks at the end of 2015 were estimated at 445 million kuna. It's only about 50% off the tight interest rate. The next question is asked. If there are large claims on which criteria the reserve goods were delivered to, which companies are listed here in the report a whole series of companies that went bankrupt, and did not, for example, settle the goods obviously 5 million, million, 15, 20 million. On the side, it says pre-fashion deal, pre-fashion, criminal charges. We need a more precise report on how gentlemen are mastering the stock reserves in this case. So it's a criterion for the availability and distribution of all of this. The party Change Croatia advocates that these reports as well as other reports be clearer, to be with more arguments, not to be general where they are not made out specifically when it comes to public procurement, how great they are purchases. And on the other hand, I would like to say a few more words about the role of the supply system for and what an impact it is on our agriculture. See cereals, meat, dairy, etc. agricultural products in strategic reserves have zero kunas. Someone will say so, of course, just before they say so, so what's going to happen to us, we've abandoned it. It was in socialism. Each organised country was the capitalist and socialist one through this system in one way or another trying to help its domestic producers. We constantly advocate domestic producers that they also find their own interest and help them through a system of stock reserves. In this way, it helps farmers who are the most vulnerable, because this system has allowed themselves to be producers at the same time, to be engineers of agrotechnical protection, to be experts in marketing, finance and ultimately sell their own goods. The system of commodity reserves can in a certain and significant part absorb exactly part of agricultural production because it is the biggest problem for farmers as well as to whom they sell goods. Let's let the stories of ideologically that it's something of socialism this or that. When the elemental accident comes, it hits everything, and then it needs to be intervened. And the question arises that we will then intervene with domestic goods or import goods. If it is imported goods, then we can see what it is all about agricultural products that we have problems and what an increase in diseases in Croatia, and above all cancer disease. Here's what I'm going to finish my exposure in this way, so we're asking ourselves to review this concept, we're pushing for a model that will be effective in the case of and elementary disasters, and that's quite clear, but also helping domestic producers, above all agriculture and be partially corrective to market turbulence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74922	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to go into your entire debate right now, but I want to correct you in one piece, which is that there is no control system and that the directorship controls itself. Namely, there is something called the Stocks Bank Council, which is prescribed by the Strategic Stocks Act, which consists of just three MPs of the Assembly, one professional representative and one representative of these very agricultural users. And they're basically some management control mechanism, so there's already what you're proposing. And as a rule, of those three MPs, two MPs are from the ruling majority, one of them is from the opposition. Here if you don't know in the current meeting there is President Vedran Babic, colleague Varda and colleague Sanader so that our colleagues are there, and a lot of the things that concern stock and data that you are looking for are also classified so that I know while I was there, so a lot of it is secret information that can't even go out. So just for the public's sake, that's all. And in one part of your argument, you were right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74924	Mr. Lovrinović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74925	Dear fellow Djujic, thank you for this information. But then let him write us reports on who the members are, not us looking for them. On the other hand, the reports should be their indication and that they sign it, so it is responsible for the name and last name. And as for, so these things you're talking about, so we really need to, I don't mind, but we still have to fix this system. Let's just remember those affairs with Djakovština wheat, especially what you said. We have a lot of classified data in this country. Classified data hides potential cats, crime. I'm not saying it has to be like that, but we want it to be more transparent. I'm asking a question, and I'd like to know if tomorrow or at these rates, if there was a parliamentary commission or someone else mixed up, we'd go over the stock reserves we'd find there. Here's the question, so he hears the whole public, let's see if there's any wheat to it, if there's any fuel, if there's one, etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74926	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Mato Chichak's individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74927	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. In 2015, the Directorate of the Stock Stocks made revenues and receipts of Kun 116 million while expenditures amounted to 126 million kuna. Following the above, the directorate achieved a lack of revenue compared to expenditure of 10 million kuna, which was covered by the transfer of surplus revenue from earlier years. The total claims on 31 December 2015 amounted to 445 million kuna and increased by 20.96% compared to December 2014. The total liabilities on 31 December 2015 amounted to 215 million kuna and are almost identical with the statements on 31 December 2014. The total value of the stock on 31 December 2015 was 384 million kuna, which is 14.3 more than in 2014. The management was actively involved in supplying the population in flooded areas of Vukovar-Srijem County as well as interventions to strategic commodity supplies for the purpose of supplying migrants. By structure, the highest value of the stock is 15 product types and 90.45%. In 2016, income and receipts amounted to 115 million kuna and expenditures were 114 million kuna. The total claims on 31 December 2016 amounted to 449 million kuna and the commitments of 215 million kuna. The total value of the stocks on 31 December was 467 million kuna. Finally, it should be pointed out that the provision of goods strategic stock is carried out with the insurance of the bank, the right to real estate, the right to movables and the balance of debtors. The operations of the storage of goods shall be entrusted to legal persons who have to meet clearly specified conditions and storage criteria, provide evidence of a stable financial business of the company as collateral instruments. As a result of the natural disasters that hit us in cooperation with the State Rescue Authority, strategic stockpiles are increasingly used to provide the evacuated population, supply of drinking water, and the development of dams in the affected floods. In particular, there was an expression just during 2014 during the catastrophic floods in eastern Slavonia. I would like to join the appeal of my colleague Sanader, who is the chairman of the fire department for the purchase of the necessary equipment to all our voluntary fire departments. I myself am a fireman and head of the Rugvica Municipality, through which the Sava River flows all the way, and every year we have extraordinary circumstances and flood threats so we are not able to solve this part of the supply of equipment ourselves, and we could use it so we ask that it be resolved in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74928	Thank you, too. There's no replica. And now Mr. Secretary of State Mario Antonic will have on behalf of the promoter the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74929	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to thank you first and foremost for the constructive debate and broad support of this report. What I would like to mention and answer are questions that have been asked to clarify some things. The respected MPs Mrak-Taritash balances for 2014 and 2016 have already been changed or updated, taking into account the climate change that is taking place. Of course, the needs are always much more than possibilities, but I believe that these adjustments are at least well-responsible to those requirements. Dear Representative Djujic, on the issues you asked about vehicle deployment, if we had received this parliamentary question, it has been processed and the answer is in dispatch, the answer is classified as very secret, so I couldn't, at this point, on concrete information, but as I said, the answer was signed and I believe that in the next few days it will be delivered. Dear Representative Lovrinovic, they can rely on an explanation already made by Mr Djujic. So there is a Council for Stocks that oversees the work of the Directorate and what I can also tell you that the State Audit report at the Department of Stocks was without any objection completely clean and everything is completely transparent and without any doubt. So it's that there's a very secret report that's classified very secretly and it's substantiated to the government. This report also includes all the details needed by the Strategic Stocks Act in the Parliament's reading procedure, which is why a brief report available to you comes into this report. I think I've mostly answered all the questions I've asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74930	You have one replica from Mr. Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74931	Oh, just an honorary Mr. Vice President to answer to Mr. Secretary of State. So it is our intention here to organise and influence the law and to question the report that this one is in the best interest. So, first of all, let's get this straight, I'm only talking to numbers. But I repeat again, of course, that in the supply system, some data must be classified. But the scope of secrecy is the question. On the other hand, since we are the state we are, unorganized, where almost everyone does what they want, then we rightly question the state of things. I remind you that this House, I don't know how many years ago it was organized by an investigative committee to determine where the wheat from the student silos is. You know what the result of this investigation committee is? Eat the donkey wolf. That's how our stories end. Therefore, it is very clear that this country needs new people, determined people, moral people, professional people, new political structures and that we finally turn Croatia in a positive direction and that according to our knowledge, where we are, where we are going, and above all to protect our people and our production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74932	Okay, thank you very much. Now, first of all, we're going to conclude the debate and we're going to discuss it traditionally when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74933	The report on the state and management of commodity stocks for 2015 and 2016 with financial indicators is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the state and management of the stock for 2015 and 2016 with financial indicators is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 85 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74934	I now propose united reports, these are two reports on the same subject for, on the same issue for 2015 and 2016. These are: - Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015 - Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2016 Reports, Both reports are submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, based on Article. 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee, the government delivered an opinion. Whether the applicant wishes to provide an additional explanation for 2015 and 2016. Mr. Tomo Bear, Minister of Defence and Chairman of the Fund's Management Board. Thank you very much, and I apologize again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us a report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, so if you agree, we would like to unite 2015 and 2016 in accordance with Art. 8. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and the members of their families, the Management Board of the Fund, submits a report to the Croatian Assembly on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015. This report was included in the agenda of the 3rd session 8 of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in May 2016. The report on the operations of the Fund for 2015 shall contain, in addition to the information prospectus of the Fund for 2015 and the most important decisions of the Management Board of the Fund as well as the instructions of the Management Board of the Erste arrests Management d.o.o. i.e. Hypo Alpe Adria Invest d.d. on how to vote in the main assemblies of the company in which the fund is the owner of the shares. In 2015 there was also a process of selecting a new society for the management of Croatian defenders' funds, following the conduct of the Hypo Alpe Adria Invest d.d. tender. and is prohibited as a fund management company with a management fee of 0.488% annually to the total value of the Fund’s assets. The Fund's assets on 31.12.2015 amount to 836 million 44 000 and 359,67 kuna, which is 41 million 671 thousand kuna compared to the situation on 31.12.2014. In the structure of the total assets of the Fund, the shares of the Croatian Telecom have increased to 98.51% and its decline of 4.10% is one of the main reasons for the reduced value of the fund's assets. As in previous years, the Management Board shall be 1/3 of the Fund from 2014 in accordance with Article. 29. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. 14 million kuna has been paid into the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as soon as 4763 scholarships have been covered for children of the deadly victims, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War and children of volunteers from the Homeland War. The total amount of scholarships paid was 15 million and 90 thousand kuna. Foundations of Croatian defenders and Homeland War and members of their families were awarded 1 million and 808,000 kuna, and the Foundation in 2015 was very successful. 2536 requests for financial assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families totalling 5 million kunas, and other than funds obtained from the Fund, were granted through bank tools. During 2015, the Fund maintained stability and liquidity and in due time provided all the necessary funds for payment to members, while total profits amounted to 37 million, 84 thousand kuna. We're moving on to the 2016 report. So, a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2016. The company for the management of open-end investment funds Hypo Alpe Adria invest d.d., which is managed by the Fund, starts operating under the new name Adikko invest d.d. on 11 July 2016. For the sake of positive market developments and growth in shares prices, the Fund’s assets amounted to 942 million 840 thousand and 909 kuna on 31.12.2016, which is an increase compared to the end of 2015. During 2016, the Fund achieved dividend income for 2015 totalling 334 million kuna and Croatian Telecoma d.d. 32.6 million kuna, from Kutjev d.d. 745 thousand kuna, and also income was made on the basis of interest amounting to 19 thousand kuna. For economic recovery, there was also a rise in the value of the share compared to 2015, when the share was 386 kuna, and for 2016 it was 472 kuna. In the structure of the total property, the shares of the Croatian Telecom remain the most represented with 97.70%, which is about 1% lower than in 2015. The Governing Board of the Fund has made a decision on the payment of a third of the Fund’s profits, in accordance with Article. 29. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. He intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families, thus paying the amount of 12 million 361 thousand and 491 kuna for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In total, 5607 scholarships were paid to children of the dead, prisoners, missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War and children of volunteers from the Homeland War, which remains the largest and total amount of scholarships paid in the Republic of Croatia by one legal person. The total amount of scholarships paid was 17 million, 542 thousand kuna. In 2016, the Fund maintained stability and liquidity and in due time provided all the necessary funds for payment to members and total profits amounted to 22.5 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74936	Thank you very much. You have one replica, Mr. Minister, from Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74937	The Honorable Defense Minister, Mr. Bear. I asked a parliamentary question more than a month ago. It reads this: how many defenders have so far been killed in the Republic of Croatia and another part of the question was why they raise their hand to themselves, so that we can prevent it from happening in the future. To this day, Mr. Bear, I haven't received an answer from your ministry, so I'm curious when you're thinking of answering this important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74938	Mr. Bear. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74939	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, we have received your letter, we have prepared an answer and you will receive a written reply from the Croatian Defence Ministry very soon. But I have to say here in this high house, when we talk about the causes of which Croatian defenders unfortunately commit suicide, that they are multiple and that it is extremely difficult to count all of them and give a very simple answer. So you will soon get an answer about the number, unfortunately, of the suicides committed by Croatian defenders throughout the year, but also those measures that we as the Ministry recognise and implement in order to reduce the number of suicides, i.e. to improve the quality of life of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74940	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is a report for 2015 and 2016 on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund even though we discussed it for 2015, but we did not vote it out that they remember. I hope that today, as the minister also presented the information concerning the fund, something to say about 2016 and accept these reports, as suggested by the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. This 2016 Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund presents all the basic data on the legal basis and how the Croatian Defence Fund works and manages. The information prospectus shows information about the Croatian Defence Fund, its portfolio, management data of the Croatian Defence Fund and how the management costs are accounted for, and the Investment Strategy. The independent auditor has positively assessed the summary of the financial report, which includes the summary of the financial report on financing, the financial position on 31 December 2016. Summary of the comprehensive profit report, summarise the cash flow report and summarise the report on changes in net assets and summarise the related notes. As in previous years, the Management Board shall be one-third of the Fund's profits in accordance with Article 29. Law on the Defence Fund intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families, so that 12 million 364 000... and 19 lipa paid into the grant fund and as you heard the total number of scholarships in 2016 covered 5607 and that is what in the total amount of scholarships paid so far the fund achieves its purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope it works in the future. What I would like to point out is that the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund has continued its initiative to amend the Law on Management and Availability of State Assets in order to legally regulate the obligation of the state to assign a part of the Republic of Croatia's share of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund without compensation for all future privatisations of companies owned by the Republic and the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that we could already transfer 7% of Croatia's insurance to improve the status of the fund, so that we do not have to make up for what is planned from the state budget. During the money as well as the situation in the capital market, the value of the shares and the payment of dividends and profits, and therefore we can say that so far, the fund has satisfied all its basic purposes, and has benefited the children of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled, their children, all those who wanted to be educated through certain times, the retraining they wanted to remain in office has found places and opportunities to use the support of the Croatian Defence Fund. I don't know what to say more than just conclude that the fund has a purpose, that it has its own purpose, that it is doing it for now, that we all need to support together the initiative to bring the new package of shares into the fund so that it can function further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74942	Thank you, too. There's no replica. Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Cresso Beljak in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Predrag Matic in front of SDP's Club of Representatives, he's here and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have these two reports that should have been discussed long ago, but for various reasons they are not here at the plenary session. And it should be said immediately that the reports are correct. They've been made the way they've been done over the past few years. So that's one sprant in which the figures that depend most naturally on the defenders about the shares of the Croatian Telecom that makes up practically you've heard from the minister 98% of the fund. Unfortunately, there'd be an INA, but it's in those times past sold, so I think now it's past the story. What can be said about this again reminds the Croatian public. So the fund was founded primarily as one noble goal for defenders to participate in the privatisation of Croatian social property, that they too feel crumbs from the table for all these others who have seized Croatia. And all over the story, there's a little bit of where the defenders got it. The most noble part of the entire fund is just the scholarship of children, and over the previous years there are tens of thousands of children who have been scholarshipd from that fund, who have some thank God and received a Ph.D. thanks to this fund. There is, of course, the Foundation for Croatian Defences, which is the help of those most endangered who through one part are little co-financed by their life needs, but unfortunately I saw that in 2016, there is no blame, no minister, no ministry, no one. We simply depend on the price of that T-Com stock. Unfortunately, in previous years we haven't privatised, we privatized, but we haven't received a share of Croatia's insurance that we can now re-polytize there. So in 2010, the law was changed, so from that definition that the government gives defenders 7% of the government's inserted word can be given, and when it can be given, then thank God it doesn't have to, so we passed with Croatia's insurance. However, here is how my colleague Djakic announced, and we will now have a new Fund Act that will predict that in future privatisations Mr. Pejnović's latest proposal was the fund he proposed up to 7%, and even Mr. Pejnovic suggested at least 7% that he would go to the defenders, so we will see from the announcement of future privatisations how it would go. future privatisations how it will go. So in conclusion, both reports are fine, they were made in 2015, I must especially commend and 2016, 2015 is the report from the last government. So here's to a little clean this isn't boring we can just say one part that really touched me, so I want to share it with you. In fact, which means politics, when a report by the Croatian Defence Fund was discussed, which I will say that most of them are just Croatian defenders, and you will not believe my initiative was appointed to those people who were just ahead of that tent protest. However, the same truth works should be said that besides what they did, they did a very good job at the fund. And we had through that time a double relationship of one conflict in the tent and a good collaboration in the fund. These people have done their job really well on behalf of the Croatian defenders and on the interest of Croatian defenders. However, what I want to show you is what politics does and what the late Vlado Gotovina said about it always the same, but it does not have to be applied either. So on 16 June 2016, at this Assembly, the Parliamentary Committee on War Veterans discussed the report in 2015 and how additional pressure had to be put on and all the reports were not accepted and then, on 9 November, almost the same people in the second government only discussed the same report and the chairman was one gentleman whom I particularly appreciate, this first one should not even be mentioned, the second is Mr Anusic's current mayor. And that same report, so the same data, the same story was accepted. There's so much about it, the SDP will accept both of these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74944	Thank you, too. And in the end, we move on to the only individual debate Mr. Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74945	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It should be pointed out that the total value of the fund’s assets on 31 December 2016 amounted to HRK 947,8 million, of which 97.7% or 927 million on HT shares. The value of the stake was 472 kuna. The Fund’s Management Board paid $12.3 million, representing one third of the fund’s profits in 2015. In 2016 5 000 607 scholarships were paid to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The Croatian defenders' funds were not paid, since the fund's profits could not keep up with all the obligations. This report shall provide all the basic data on the legal basis and how the fund is operated and managed. The independent auditor positively assessed the summary financial reports covering the summary financial report on the financial position on 31 December 2016, summarised the overall profit report, summarised the cash flow report and summarised the change, net assets and summarised the related notes. As usual, the Management Board has allocated a third of the Fund's profits to development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders, members of their families, so that 12 million 361 thousand 421 kunas are paid to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Five thousand 607 scholarships were paid to children of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, children of Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War and children of volunteers, which remains the largest and total amount of scholarships paid to the Republic of Croatia by one legal person. Finally, it should also be pointed out that the assets of the fund are invested in debt securities issued by the Republic of Croatia, the EU Member State up to 40% of the funds in deposits with financial institutions, with that amount not exceeding 5% of the guarantee capital and the financial institution up to 40% of the debt securities traded on the stock market or another organised securities market in the Republic of Croatia. Can't be invested in shares, bonds and other securities that don't appear on the stock market or are not traded with them except... securities, legal entities owned by the Republic of Croatia, assets that are inalienable, shares, bonds or other securities issued by the depositary bank of the fund, the property of the board of directors or the depositary bank of the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, it should be said that the fund management company is leading its business with the assets of the fund with the attention of a good economic operator and that I continue to call on the principles of profitability and liquidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74946	It's a good thing you were short because before Mr. Djakic's replica, it's an honor to welcome students and I see a teacher from Buzet High School from Buzet. And let's give them a round of applause. And now I give my word to Mr. Djakic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have included everything in your report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2015 and 2016. However, it is good to stress that during this whole period, 75 thousand scholarships have been paid to Croatian defenders, children of the dead, imprisoned and missing, and that this is one of the basic purposes for which the fund serves. It is that these are shares that Croatian defenders received from HT by privatising 7% of HT and 7% of INA. 7% of INAs were sold to settle all those who applied for the sale of their shares in the Croatian Defence Fund and the best time when the INA stock was strongest and when it was worth 2018. Kuna was then sold and settled all those who sold their shares. And we must stress that more than 50% of the shares are sold today, that Croatian defenders no longer have over 50% of the participants in the fund and therefore we must initiate and try to enable the new introduction of a new package of shares in order to balance the relationship and to continue to pursue a trust and the purpose of the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund. Namely, it is necessary to say that Croatian wartime disabled persons are granted second-rate shares of Croatian companies so that they are also awarded shares of companies that are also in privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74948	Thank you, too. Mr. Uncle's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74949	Thank you very much. So, you put everything exactly in your replica, first of all, according to the degree of disability of the military disabled, rights to shares on the other basis, until the role of the fund is primarily intended for the development, social and humanitarian purposes and Croatian defenders of their family members, and is also one of the key roles of the fund to help the children of defenders, missing defenders and missing Croatian military disabled persons to school, finish schools and benefit society. I also support your appeal that future privatisation of state-owned companies means the law is prescribed which part is involved, in the future this part is transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74950	Thank you, too. The closing word, Mr. Secretary Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74951	I want to thank you for your support and acceptance of these reports. As chairman of the Management Board and the entire Management Board of the Fund, we will continue to treat the management and management of the Fund very responsibly. What is important to highlight, as Mr Djakić pointed out, is in the plan of the government's normative activities, i.e. the Ministry of State Property in 2018, in the plan to amend the Law on State Property Management where the Croatian Defence Ministry will certainly present its proposal, and related to this initiative on the sustainability of the Fund. So the fund plays an extremely important role, especially in these two processes that support the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry and through the Scholarship Fund, and in a special way through a foundation that recognises or actively contributes to improving or helping the most needed Croatian defenders and members of their families. Therefore, the Management Board will continue its work and future experience and experience as well as the responsible master. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74952	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74953	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, in the last part of your presentation, you pointed out actually one of the reasons why I signed up for the replica, but I think that because of the very often political tones around the Croatian Defence Fund, what you said was why he was founded, why the governments once decided that shares of the most qualitative Croatian companies were assigned to defenders, so above all for the scholarship and assistance of children of the dead, missing Croatian defenders and the complete defence population. It is also very often spoken of in public about some large income from Croatian defenders, but unfortunately many of them live on such a way as to say, the margins of society in very difficult situations and this foundation should help them. However, what should be pointed out when it comes to this fund that the INA stock was at the moment of entry into the fund and what the value of HT shares was at the time of entry into the fund, so at the moment when the decision was made to allocate 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT, which was then, what was the value at the time when the Fund's Management Board decided to sell shares of the fund and why it also took the third thing which is the value of the HT shares today. That's just what to say. And the other thing, when we talk about shares in Croatia's insurance, I think we'd better not open a topic here. You know well how Croatia's insurance was privatised and you know well what the debates in this House were by representatives who were in the government when 7% of HT shares and 7% of INA shares were given, so then we asked for 7% of Croatia's shares to be insured at the time Croatia's insurance was privatised according to the same principle. And also today, when the HEP privatisation starts tomorrow, just those 7% shares have to end up in this fund, whether someone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74954	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue to discuss Monday at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday, no Wednesday, but Monday at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the OPG Act, all of you. Go and breed. Session interrupted at 12.10 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-09-0.u74955	Report on the operations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015 is submitted by the Board of the Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I conclude the report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and their family members for 2015, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 87 votes in favour and one abstentioned conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
