ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u78396	The following will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u78397	Dear colleagues I have repeatedly warned that the money of taxpayers is spent, there is no control, the prototype of this is the bus station Zagreb, if you come down, you will see 10 gates, which do not serve any purpose. Whoever built it, picked up the money, it's standing there like a mastodon frozen in the ice. You have a rotating toilet to show the west that we're an advanced state, those toilets, they've put bars on them now, they're not used at all, you've got bad work, you've got what kind of employer that bus station is, compared to private travel agencies? Not at all. ... People are hired inside, these are old cools, high prices, poor quality works, see City of Zagreb, how to spend that tax money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The wheels are falling apart, new constructions, you've got tiles over there at the Esplanade Hotel, at the fountain, someone picked up the money, went, old south fore. Here's Split, Split looks, like the favela looks Split, right there in Brazil. That you came to Brazil and Mexico at the border crossing from Mexico down, an illegal construction. I've talked here more than once about the crime about the grant, there's nothing up there. I had documents here that prove they faked in Zadar, a catastra, you have from Italian to real from the '20s. Mr. last century, and you have today on Cyrillic the same grunt, how is that possible? What do these surveillance services and inspections do? Look at this Peter hospital, the children's department, I thought I was in... When I came up, the halls... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Almost, in what conditions these people work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I almost saw Mike Teresa out there in the hall, watching them work. No toilet paper at all. What are the conditions in our hospitals, from here to Mostar, that's scary and what to say, when you have 89% of the staff said they were attacked by foreign terrorists coming in or bored. Here, build an object for no purpose and you all know about that facility Obrovac, the clinic or that dollar, nothing still stands there who... What about Blato Hospital, where the Zagrebers have been giving since '82--'92. contribution, most of Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, the hospital cost about 580 million marks, they built it in the flood zone, and the basement didn't have any, and where 500 million went missing. 500 million marks are gone, is that known by Joseph Leko, the gentleman who today is the Constitutional Judge, whom Racan has earned, tasked with making a financial consolidation of the party there in the '90s. And according to some data from the SK, the SDP only transferred in the '90s. She transferred $8.7 billion to bank accounts outside. What about... Slame, was there Mr. Leko the secretary, she went to ruin, and what was done there was nothing, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where retro-active laws for war profiting are. Where are the laws on the origin of the property, how is that possible? Here, we have here from the 2006 USKOK on the hospital in Blato where the heavy money was washed. We have antiquity of prosecution. What kind of message is that to our tax-paying people, who are watching this, and we're still living in a legal anarchy? Here. As far as the football team of Croatia is concerned, everyone has now risen there to praise Mr Dalic, which is Croatia's right. The real Croatia, and it is a total prototype of Southzomboids without ethics, without morals and those in a former system where the moral ethical code has been totally destroyed. It's real Croatia, here. We won't talk too much about it, thank God they stole those English, they owed us a long time. Come on, God.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u78398	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92049	Now I would suggest that we unify the two laws and I'll read the headlines and then I'll ask you if you don't mind. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 341 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulation Act, second reading, P.Z.E. 343 Do you mind if we unite these two laws? Those two hearings, actually? No, then we'll unite them. And I'm going to read because it's the same text, and I'm going to read the proposal for both laws together. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the agenda relating to the second reading of the law apply, so this is most likely the final reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? State Secretary Ivo Milatić, please. Of course, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92050	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So there are two laws before you, the first Electricity Market Act adopted in 2013 and amended in 2015. This law has been a letter of formal notice from the European Commission since 14 July. The European Commission identified injury No. 2017/2091 concerning the irregular transposition of Directive 2009/72 EC and Directive 2009-73... , and inconsistency with certain provisions of Regulation No 715 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this kind of injury was also found in this Law to be another where the debate was united. So, the Law on Change and Completion of Energy Regulatory Activities. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the electricity market or the Law on Market Energy, Electricity, this, the European Commission has drawn attention to irregularities relating to the certification of transmission system operators in relation to third countries, irregularities relating to certain tasks of the transmission system operator, irregularities relating to the request for confidentiality of data for transmission system operators and their owners, as well as irregularities relating to the provisions concerning independence of the system operator which includes the right to object to the regulatory authority. These issues are therefore regulated by the Final Proposal for Amendments and the Completion of the Law in a way that removes observed irregularities, thus changing the concept of a third country in terms of certification of transmission system operators, and certifications must be passed by companies coming from the member states of the energy community that have so far been harmonised with EU members. The obligation to protect the data confidentiality clause shall be prescribed, the transmission system operator shall be obliged to draw up and publish rules for the management and suppression within the Croatian power system, with the Agency’s agreed consent. Among the additions there is also a provision which enables the electricity producer to obtain electricity on the wholesale market for the whole operation of the reversible hydroelectric power plant. It is a provision necessary for a competitive supply of services on the electricity market, and especially at intervals when... The system itself is relieving of sudden disturbances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, by adopting this law if this happens this week, HEP will achieve both additional results and savings which are good for the general economy of the Republic of Croatia. In terms of strengthening the market and administrative redundancies, it is prescribed that households must have only one account and that two invoices may be used in the economy in the light of the choice. Indeed, the household is protected from having only one electricity bill and must be issued by those who are obliged to issue an account. So, as regards the possible changes between the two readings themselves, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament did not have any objections as the issue of the debate is resolved by other energy laws and sublegal acts, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, the Regulation on Energy Consensus and laying down the conditions and deadlines of accession to the electricity network, the network rules,... the systems, and as such are not covered by this proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, according to the above, there is no difference between the solutions which are attached to the Final Proposal for the Law in relation to the solution set out in the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the electricity market. As far as this second law is concerned, the Energy Regulation Act, as I said before, we have the same infringement as the previous law. The Commission has put emphasis here on the need to regulate the independence of agencies in any political body. Thus, independence from political bodies involves full independence from any body which can be linked to the executive authority, but does not refer to judicial and parliamentary oversight in accordance with constitutional law. An independent body to which a party affected by a decision of the national regulator or agency has the right to appeal or the action is brought by the court. That question had been discussed before in the Law, and it is now more detailed. It is also arranged to provide an agency with objective and transparent exercise of powers through decision-making from the area of competence. The Agency shall clearly monitor the suppression of the electrical energy system, either electrically or gasically. The Agency’s decisions mean that what has been said before can only be joined before the court and also information, the Agency may seek information not only from energy subjects but from all those entities that have some contact with energy, or all energy users, so that the Agency can have more complete and complete information that is used to make better and better decisions. The Agency's acts are regulated. The rules adopted by the Agency’s administrative board shall determine the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities. The content of the statutes of the Agency is clearly prescribed, clearly prescribed time limits for the adoption of statutes and regulations. As regards the difference between the two readings, the difference between these two drafts of the law refers to a nomotechnical arrangement such as the rules adopted by the Agency, and in the part of the alignment of the statements that the applicant has accepted. It is not accepted that the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament does not accept amendments to the Energy Act rules of this Act as prescribed in Article. 11. In fact, if we had accepted that, the very essence of this amendment and the additions would have come into question. The essence of this amendment and the addition is ultimately that the agency is independent of the executive authority. The Energy Act provides that the authorisations issued by the Agency may be made to the Ministry, the Resoring Ministry means, to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, if they were to allow such adoption of the new Act, we would get a new infringement from the European Commission, which, as a proposaler or Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not accept such an amendment and insists that this Law be adopted in the manner proposed. That's it, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92051	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Miro Totgergeli is first in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92052	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have two laws in front of us. energy law packages. First, I'm going to say a little bit about the Energy Regulation Act. So, in these past 17 years, since the first law was passed in 2001, we have practically developed the agency from the then Energy Regulatory Council, which was not actually able to function independently, but has helped in the work, the Hrvoje Pozar Institute, to a respectable agency that, once it adopts this law, will function independently from the government, from the ministry, so we practically ensure that it works independently from any political influence. In 2012, when the Energy Regulatory Act was adopted, it was thought that it had fully complied with Directives 72 and 73 of 2009 and Regulation 713 also from 2009. However, in 2017 we received a warning from the Commission, i.e., the Commission drew our attention to the irregular transposition into the Croatian legal order of that specific directive, which concerns the independence of the work of the Energy Agency. Accordingly, this amendment to the laws is proposed to amend the provisions and independence of the regulatory authority, i.e. HERA, in terms of decision-making independently of any political body. Although Article 22 of the existing law and in a similar form, this formulation also appears in the '94 law. The Agency shall define that the Agency is independent in the taking of all organisational and other measures necessary for the smooth performance of operations and the fulfilment of obligations under this law and of other energy laws referred to in Article 1(1). 8. which defines that the agency is the only one responsible for the work of the Croatian Parliament and these articles are not changed in the proposal for this law. Most of the doubts about the Agency's work on any political body in the government are challenging an existing Article 36 which says that the Agency's work surveillance is carried out by the ministry and there is an art. 7th paragraph 5 which devines that consent to... The agencies are being given by the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law, such a formulation, the supervision of the agency's work is deleted, and the agency is only obliged to submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly a report on its work, as so far, in terms of the existing article 33, which does not change in the draft law and suggests that consent... The Croatian Parliament gives the government instead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal also introduces a regulation laying down the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities. Between the first and second readings, the Proposer accepted the suggestion, and in the article. In addition to what is changed in paragraph 1, it has changed in paragraph 4 so that it has in some way equated natural and legal persons, which in any way, have an impact with energy in what their obligations to HERA are but also on what their rights to HERA are. This law also suggests that the court is a independent body affected by decisions of the national regulator, i.e. the Agency, to which each party is entitled to appeal or action. The ministry has decided on these cases so far. And what may also be of the same importance through the debate in the reading process, therefore, this fear, who will now oversee HERA, so HERA will be supervised by the Croatian Parliament, there are independent bodies, and as far as the choices of the people who run HERA are concerned, the directive offers to be between 5 and 7 years of the mandate people choose. For 7 years, it has been moving, so that different parliamentary majoritys in different years, choose the people who lead the HERA, and thus further strengthens this independence of HERA from the influence of politics. This second law relating to the electricity market. Therefore, the proposer has initiated these amendments, above all, based on the Commission's opinion that they have been incorrectly transferred to the Croatian legal order relating to the certification of transmission system operators in relation to third countries. Then those definitions, which relate to the data confidentiality requirement for transmission system operators, but also to their owners, are in this case for us HEP, in relation to HOPS and the specifics relating to... the system operator’s administrations which include the right to appeal to regulatory bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is now further regulated by these amendments and additions, and I think these two high-quality bill proposals, which on the one hand will enable HERA to function independently, and on the other hand give the CAPS independence as an operator in the transmission of systems. And I think that when we bring them in that their functioning will be even better in the relationship that has been so far and therefore the HDZ Club will support these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92053	Thank you very much. There's no one else registered by traffic lights. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote tomorrow. All right, I'll give you five minutes off, and we'll wait for the proposer. Let's make sure, 10:00 and 10:00. Break at 09.52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92054	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 341. Proposer of the Act Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 113 for and 1 abstentions we have brought, and one against, I apologize. I therefore find that most of the votes 113 for and 1 abstentions and 1 against we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the electricity market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92055	Now I would suggest that we unify the two laws and I'll read the headlines and then I'll ask you if you don't mind. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 341 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulation Act, second reading, P.Z.E. 343 Do you mind if we unite these two laws? Those two hearings, actually? No, then we'll unite them. And I'm going to read because it's the same text, and I'm going to read the proposal for both laws together. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the agenda relating to the second reading of the law apply, so this is most likely the final reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? State Secretary Ivo Milatić, please. Of course, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92056	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So there are two laws before you, the first Electricity Market Act adopted in 2013 and amended in 2015. This law has been a letter of formal notice from the European Commission since 14 July. The European Commission identified injury No. 2017/2091 concerning the irregular transposition of Directive 2009/72 EC and Directive 2009-73... , and inconsistency with certain provisions of Regulation No 715 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this kind of injury was also found in this Law to be another where the debate was united. So, the Law on Change and Completion of Energy Regulatory Activities. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the electricity market or the Law on Market Energy, Electricity, this, the European Commission has drawn attention to irregularities relating to the certification of transmission system operators in relation to third countries, irregularities relating to certain tasks of the transmission system operator, irregularities relating to the request for confidentiality of data for transmission system operators and their owners, as well as irregularities relating to the provisions concerning independence of the system operator which includes the right to object to the regulatory authority. These issues are therefore regulated by the Final Proposal for Amendments and the Completion of the Law in a way that removes observed irregularities, thus changing the concept of a third country in terms of certification of transmission system operators, and certifications must be passed by companies coming from the member states of the energy community that have so far been harmonised with EU members. The obligation to protect the data confidentiality clause shall be prescribed, the transmission system operator shall be obliged to draw up and publish rules for the management and suppression within the Croatian power system, with the Agency’s agreed consent. Among the additions there is also a provision which enables the electricity producer to obtain electricity on the wholesale market for the whole operation of the reversible hydroelectric power plant. It is a provision necessary for a competitive supply of services on the electricity market, and especially at intervals when... The system itself is relieving of sudden disturbances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, by adopting this law if this happens this week, HEP will achieve both additional results and savings which are good for the general economy of the Republic of Croatia. In terms of strengthening the market and administrative redundancies, it is prescribed that households must have only one account and that two invoices may be used in the economy in the light of the choice. Indeed, the household is protected from having only one electricity bill and must be issued by those who are obliged to issue an account. So, as regards the possible changes between the two readings themselves, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament did not have any objections as the issue of the debate is resolved by other energy laws and sublegal acts, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, the Regulation on Energy Consensus and laying down the conditions and deadlines of accession to the electricity network, the network rules,... the systems, and as such are not covered by this proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, according to the above, there is no difference between the solutions which are attached to the Final Proposal for the Law in relation to the solution set out in the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the electricity market. As far as this second law is concerned, the Energy Regulation Act, as I said before, we have the same infringement as the previous law. The Commission has put emphasis here on the need to regulate the independence of agencies in any political body. Thus, independence from political bodies involves full independence from any body which can be linked to the executive authority, but does not refer to judicial and parliamentary oversight in accordance with constitutional law. An independent body to which a party affected by a decision of the national regulator or agency has the right to appeal or the action is brought by the court. That question had been discussed before in the Law, and it is now more detailed. It is also arranged to provide an agency with objective and transparent exercise of powers through decision-making from the area of competence. The Agency shall clearly monitor the suppression of the electrical energy system, either electrically or gasically. The Agency’s decisions mean that what has been said before can only be joined before the court and also information, the Agency may seek information not only from energy subjects but from all those entities that have some contact with energy, or all energy users, so that the Agency can have more complete and complete information that is used to make better and better decisions. The Agency's acts are regulated. The rules adopted by the Agency’s administrative board shall determine the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities. The content of the statutes of the Agency is clearly prescribed, clearly prescribed time limits for the adoption of statutes and regulations. As regards the difference between the two readings, the difference between these two drafts of the law refers to a nomotechnical arrangement such as the rules adopted by the Agency, and in the part of the alignment of the statements that the applicant has accepted. It is not accepted that the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament does not accept amendments to the Energy Act rules of this Act as prescribed in Article. 11. In fact, if we had accepted that, the very essence of this amendment and the additions would have come into question. The essence of this amendment and the addition is ultimately that the agency is independent of the executive authority. The Energy Act provides that the authorisations issued by the Agency may be made to the Ministry, the Resoring Ministry means, to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, if they were to allow such adoption of the new Act, we would get a new infringement from the European Commission, which, as a proposaler or Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not accept such an amendment and insists that this Law be adopted in the manner proposed. That's it, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92057	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Miro Totgergeli is first in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92058	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have two laws in front of us. energy law packages. First, I'm going to say a little bit about the Energy Regulation Act. So, in these past 17 years, since the first law was passed in 2001, we have practically developed the agency from the then Energy Regulatory Council, which was not actually able to function independently, but has helped in the work, the Hrvoje Pozar Institute, to a respectable agency that, once it adopts this law, will function independently from the government, from the ministry, so we practically ensure that it works independently from any political influence. In 2012, when the Energy Regulatory Act was adopted, it was thought that it had fully complied with Directives 72 and 73 of 2009 and Regulation 713 also from 2009. However, in 2017 we received a warning from the Commission, i.e., the Commission drew our attention to the irregular transposition into the Croatian legal order of that specific directive, which concerns the independence of the work of the Energy Agency. Accordingly, this amendment to the laws is proposed to amend the provisions and independence of the regulatory authority, i.e. HERA, in terms of decision-making independently of any political body. Although Article 22 of the existing law and in a similar form, this formulation also appears in the '94 law. The Agency shall define that the Agency is independent in the taking of all organisational and other measures necessary for the smooth performance of operations and the fulfilment of obligations under this law and of other energy laws referred to in Article 1(1). 8. which defines that the agency is the only one responsible for the work of the Croatian Parliament and these articles are not changed in the proposal for this law. Most of the doubts about the Agency's work on any political body in the government are challenging an existing Article 36 which says that the Agency's work surveillance is carried out by the ministry and there is an art. 7th paragraph 5 which devines that consent to... The agencies are being given by the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law, such a formulation, the supervision of the agency's work is deleted, and the agency is only obliged to submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly a report on its work, as so far, in terms of the existing article 33, which does not change in the draft law and suggests that consent... The Croatian Parliament gives the government instead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal also introduces a regulation laying down the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities. Between the first and second readings, the Proposer accepted the suggestion, and in the article. In addition to what is changed in paragraph 1, it has changed in paragraph 4 so that it has in some way equated natural and legal persons, which in any way, have an impact with energy in what their obligations to HERA are but also on what their rights to HERA are. This law also suggests that the court is a independent body affected by decisions of the national regulator, i.e. the Agency, to which each party is entitled to appeal or action. The ministry has decided on these cases so far. And what may also be of the same importance through the debate in the reading process, therefore, this fear, who will now oversee HERA, so HERA will be supervised by the Croatian Parliament, there are independent bodies, and as far as the choices of the people who run HERA are concerned, the directive offers to be between 5 and 7 years of the mandate people choose. For 7 years, it has been moving, so that different parliamentary majoritys in different years, choose the people who lead the HERA, and thus further strengthens this independence of HERA from the influence of politics. This second law relating to the electricity market. Therefore, the proposer has initiated these amendments, above all, based on the Commission's opinion that they have been incorrectly transferred to the Croatian legal order relating to the certification of transmission system operators in relation to third countries. Then those definitions, which relate to the data confidentiality requirement for transmission system operators, but also to their owners, are in this case for us HEP, in relation to HOPS and the specifics relating to... the system operator’s administrations which include the right to appeal to regulatory bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is now further regulated by these amendments and additions, and I think these two high-quality bill proposals, which on the one hand will enable HERA to function independently, and on the other hand give the CAPS independence as an operator in the transmission of systems. And I think that when we bring them in that their functioning will be even better in the relationship that has been so far and therefore the HDZ Club will support these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92059	Thank you very much. There's no one else registered by traffic lights. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote tomorrow. All right, I'll give you five minutes off, and we'll wait for the proposer. Let's make sure, 10:00 and 10:00. Break at 09.52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92060	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Regulation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 343. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, so I would like to ask the proposing representative now, with us the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection Ivo Milatić to show about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92061	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. That amendment is not accepted by the Government in view of the fact that the set of legislation in the field of energy, i.e. related laws and in no way is affected by any other area of activity and as such the content of Article 11 is subject to a European Commission pilot who must be respected in order to ensure that energy legislation is fully harmonised. Given the new energy regulation that is in the EU process, it will also have to be implemented through the amendments to the Energy Act and will be expected to be harmonised in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92062	Apparition of the representative of the Committee of colleagues Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92063	The President-in-Office, given the explanation, I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92064	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State, and I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Regulation Act, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 113 for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against we passed a law on amendments and amendments to the Energy Regulation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92065	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.10 HOURS]] And you're here, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please don't throw it off the bench. ... Don't throw you off the bench either. - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 244 The proposal shall be made by the HDZ Representatives Club on the basis of Article 85. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So it's about first reading, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the representative in this case wish to give an additional explanation? Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92066	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm sorry about earlier. Here, we have long waited for this bill to come into the parliamentary procedure and first of all we should thank the president of the club and the minister of justice for showing great understanding of this sensitive social topic and for this proposal that has very good intensities to regulate this piece of legislation. What's important is to say that cases of child abuse terrify us all and we can consider them the most terrible crimes. And after every such case of child sexual abuse, we could only be more gunned down. Each such case is a case of tragedy for itself, and that is why it is not good, nor would it be good for politics to wait, for example, for some worst tragedy such as the death of a child due to such abuse and then react. Unfortunately, nothing and nothing can bring back to the victims what has been taken from them by this crime, but what we can and what we have done, we can improve the laws and thus let it know that we condemn these crimes. It is more than positive that this topic will be discussed this way for the first time in the Croatian Parliament. The criminal law was adopted in October 2011 and entered into force on 1 January 2013. This Penal Code, which is valid in itself, contains so-called “the Law of Penalty. ” Special Chapter 17 entitled Criminal acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child who, in fact, has been fully incorporated into Croatian legislation within themselves by the Council of Europe Convention to prevent sexual abuse and exploitation of a child, and thus the following offences are listed in the current criminal law. Sexual abuse of a child under 15 years of age, sexual abuse of a child over 15 years of age, satisfaction with a child under 15 years of age, cheating children to meet sexual needs, undermining children for pornography, exploiting children for pornographic performances, getting to know children with pornography, and ultimately severe acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. Chapter 17 of the Penal Code, i.e. Articles 158 to 166, will be completely subject to this bill, which is now before you in the first reading, to change what is a major change. This is where we included Article 81. KZ and Article 302. Very short on everyone. So it is known that in the parliamentary procedure as the HDZ Club on 26 November last year we sent this proposal to amend and supplement the law, the aim is to more adequate sanction but also to prevent sexual abuse and exploitation of the child. According to the current KZ, which is organic, the prosecution of the committing of crimes is becoming obsolete depending on the amount of the prescribed penalty for a particular criminal offence. According to this proposal, the law would want to amend this, so in Article 81(2), which is now starving, “punishment does not go out of date. ” We would change it in a way that, for serious crimes of child abuse and exploitation, Article 166 would be joined here in a way that, as for serious murders or as with crimes against humanity or as for genocide and the like. Major offences do not have a statute of limitations, so they should not be out of date for the most severe crimes of child abuse and exploitation, so Article 166 is the most serious criminal offence where the maximum range of penalties in our KZ is prescribed, and such crimes may include the death of a child. It is then proposed to prohibit the exercise of activities or duties for persons who are legally convicted of sexual abuse of children, that is, Article 71. KZ. According to the latest changes made by the KZ, the judge is at will, from now on, should be bound by these offences, so what is no less important is the increased penalties for sexual abuse and exploitation of children but within the range of KZs. Obligatory check in the Register of Criminal Records, if a person appears for work in an institution, in which he regularly comes in contact with children, for example kindergarten, school, welfare center, sports clubs and even the job of a nanny. The establishment should, as part of the tender documentation other than that of the usual application, also request an extract from the criminal record or so on. a pedophile register being conducted as a separate application by the Ministry of Justice within the criminal record. Moreover, now such law enforcement officers convicted of these crimes should no longer be deleted after the so-called expiry date. a period of between 6 and 40 years, rather than a permanent record of legally convicted persons for these offences. It is proposed to introduce the application in a way that is in Article. Article 1(1) changes and says: who knows that a criminal offence has been committed for which a sentence of at least 10 years or a criminal offence of child sexual abuse is prescribed, and does not report it, although such a report would allow or significantly facilitate the detection of the offence, it will also suffer consequences. What is very important is to point out that it is not just sanctioning one of the crucial measures. It's about prevention and education. What can be done under the criminal law is enhanced security and safeguard measures. These amendments and additions to the criminal law regulate that the protection measure following the full execution of the sentence of imprisonment in the delicacies of sexual violence and gender delicacies should also be implemented against those convicts who, even less than two years, have spent on the maintenance of the prison sentence. That's an art. 76. Penal Code where an article should be amended. 1st and 1st Article. 2. It is also necessary to extend the time to check protective supervision after the full execution of the prison sentence for the conduct of acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. Why? Because examples of countries, such as Great Britain, France and some others, show that those who are convicted of parole, easier crimes of sexual abuse, the exploitation of children where the penalties are milder, less than two years after the execution and usually commit a second offence regularly, which they deserve more punishment, so to avoid that repeated repetition should increase the protective surveillance which is also proposed by these amendments to the Law. Also, the question was asked why not a special law? So a comparative analysis of the criminal legislation of some EU Member States shows that the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child are contained in the criminal laws of those Member States, not in secondary specific laws other than, say, Serbia and some other exceptions, which further indicates that the applicable Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia follows the existing standards of EU Member States in relation to the protection of children from sexual exploitation and abuse. However, as I said, some countries have a special law, so there is a need to further explain. For example, the Republic of Serbia has a special law that is so-called Mary's law has its full name, so I don't read it. However, this Law does not contain the descriptions of criminal offences or impose sanctions on them, but in fact, in that part they call for criminal law, or other words, they have a separate law, but that is so-called law. referring to the law because it actually points to their criminal. So what we need to say, for the education and awareness of children as the dangers lurk, we see here particularly the possibilities for action and civil society and, of course, state bodies, but they are not subject to an amendment to this Law. Here's so much for amending the law. I think I've covered everything and I'm at my disposal for everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92067	Thank you very much. There's only one thing I can think of. I'm wasting a moment just being here, being able to abuse, I shouldn't. But there is one more thing that is not contained in the Penal Code and I don't know that it can be done now and that's child abuse for politics, propaganda, which in some international documents stands very explicitly not to be allowed. So think about it later. And now you have two replicas. Mr. Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Members of the Council of Europe Convention 12. So whoever knows or has the information that a crime of abuse, sexual violence, etc. has been committed, you have provided for these amendments and additions to the Penal Code for such persons up to 3 years in prison, but only for the more serious crimes under this Act. And what about the people who have this information and haven't reported these minor crimes precisely for prevention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92069	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92070	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Varda, you have noticed this well, in conversations and in consultations we have come to the conclusion that it is best to change in this article. 302. The penal law relating to this area of St. 1 and we have incorporated it into this proposal for first reading. Of course, it can be considered for a second reading and your proposal, although I say it depends on the working group and whether this proposal will then be passed on to the working group. I think what you're proposing has gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92071	Thank you very much. The second replica, Mr. Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92072	Do you colleagues have any information as to what percentage of these child abuses occur in the family? You have globally maybe statistics that 80% more of the family circle, others are sports clubs, etc., scouts. And I would also say that the comparison of our system, our legal system with England, etc., is not in place because when a pedophile, a sex sadist or a snitch goes to prison, they put themselves in protective custody. It doesn't happen here, because that's where their life is worth 15 minutes. Second, I'd say more, I worked, I was the boss... The teams in federal prison and paedophiles, the hardest thing to do is to treat them because they've never been, says rehabilitation, they've never been rehabilitated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nor is chemical castration the answer because that instinct is in them and it's hard to take it out. Repeating those acts of what you said was quite often, I saw it on my skin, I saw it, in that system, not just paedophiles but sexual sadistics come out after serving the sentence and repeat the deed again. Just a brief thought about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92073	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92074	I agree with you in the part where you said that the perpetrators of sexual abuse are actually incurable because convicted perpetrators even at trial declare that they cannot help themselves, and that is why in some countries chemical sterilization as a method has really been introduced. They are indeed, here it has been proven that these people need both psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy, and this is shown by scientific research. The comparison with Great Britain and France was exclusively about the fact that, after serving a sentence of less than 2 years, protective supervision is required because the next one tends to be a more serious offence. And we have all the data here, so I'll show you after the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92075	Thank you very much. In front of the... The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Here's Mr. Secretary of State Jure Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92076	Honorable MPs and MPs. Here I will be brief, given that the proposer of the HDZ Representatives Club has explained this law in detail. And I can only say that the government supports this request in criminal law. I must say, I've been following this initiative and this proposal from the beginning. On behalf of the Government, I or one of our assistants took part in the parliamentary committees, and it turned out there, I would say one unity in the sense that social values, such as our children, are more strongly protected by criminal law. So it is unquestionable and the government will constantly follow up with you with this law, listen to your initiatives in terms of any improvement in quality solutions in this legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92077	Thank you, too. Now I'm really opening up the debate. The first one is in front of the club of representatives of MOST independent lists of Mrs Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92078	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected representative of the ministry. Namely, the amendments and additions to the Penal Code that are here today are due to the importance and sensitivity of the areas that governs have come to the agenda as soon as possible on the initiative of Parliament colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, who thanks you this way all 37 representatives of the signatories to come to the agenda. Amendments and additions to the Penal Code of the Most Independent Lists are supported. We support any proposed amendment that goes in the direction of child protection, and these amendments and additions to the Penal Code certainly are. The proposed changes and additions go in 4 directions. Changes to the provisions of Article 74 in the way that it is proposed that, in the case of delicacies of violence and sexual delicacies, the implementation of a safeguard control measure and to convicts who have spent a shorter period of time on the execution of a prison sentence in order to be able to carry out protective surveillance of sex offenders can be an important measure of prevention. It is also proposed to increase the protection of the victim's child, in a way that time increases from the current 3 years to 5 years if the offence is committed to harming the child. In Article 81, a crime of serious abuse and exploitation of a child has been imposed in a non-deprecated area of law enforcement. According to the current Penal Code, the prosecution of antiquities after 6 and 40 years, depending on the amount of the prescribed penalty for a particular criminal offence, while in relation to the offences committed to the harm of children from the age of the victim, the expiry of the limitation period begins. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse requires that the deadlines become obsolete for the initiation of criminal proceedings, for sexual acts committed over a child, shall be sufficient to enable the effective initiation of the procedure after the child's victim has become a minor. In view of the nature of sexual delicacies and the consequences that a person is exposed to sexual abuse and has suffered a period of time left for her to gain strength, to talk about the type of abuse, and to suffer the inconveniences revealed and the processing of the perpetrators along with her. The MOST of Independent Lists shall consider the time limit for criminal persecution not to be limited. Furthermore, through these amendments and additions, it is proposed that more severe punishment be imposed on the perpetrator to harm the child in such a way that all the offences of Chapter 17. Penalty law, acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation are increasing the limit of impediment to prisons, both lower and upper. Article 302(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is amended as follows: Criminal law in a way that also punishes the non-registration of sexual abuse and exploitation of children under the age of 15 and the serious crime of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child. Under the existing criminal law, only non-reporting crimes, for which a prison sentence of at least 10 years has been prevented, are being punished. We hope that our remarks will also be respected through this first reading, until the final proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92079	Thank you, Mrs. Cikotic, now Mr. Recajmir Varda is in front of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformists and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Irena, on behalf of the Club, I can only say that we will absolutely support this bill, the proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code and try to improve the content itself with you. However, he would not waste his words on the content of the amendment proposal and the addition to say that we would accept, but he would actually speak to the public about the text of the convention itself which cannot be entered into the criminal law. So, first of all, we should comply. The 6th Conventions in the Educational System include, in fact, normal laws, which resolve this system, all necessary legislative and other measures to ensure that children receive information during primary and secondary education on the risks of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. As well as ways to protect yourself. Secondly, here is a very important role for the media. I'd like to make it especially prominent. Because it does. 9th point 3 says that each party, party, signatories, so, state, will encourage media to provide relevant information related to all video of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, respecting this independence of the media and freedom of the press. The media are also very important because of the education and the children themselves of parents, the public because only an article that bombistically announces that some pedophile, the abuser, is here today, I think that in the morning list, if I'm not mistaken, one article has been done that the father abused sexually, his child, his 5-year-old son. The media should take over the role of education. And third, not to be too long, Art. On the 12th, which I spoke of in the replica, I hope that in the second reading we will have such a provision regarding those who certainly know that it has occurred, and have not reported for smaller, easier acts of sexual abuse, however, in paragraph 2, I am not sure which and whether by law we can regulate it, says that each party will adopt the legal and other measures necessary to encourage any person, who knows or in good faith doubts, therefore, in good faith doubts about sexual exploitation or sexual abuse of children, to report these facts to the competent services. I'm not sure how a respected secretary of state regulates it, but the obligation is under this convention, which we are signatories, to regulate that part. By what law, I don't know, you know it better than I do, but it has to be regulated, just to encourage the public, at least, to report in good faith. I think if it's about the convention and its application, then we have to apply it in full, not just partially. And not to be too long, we're all tired, I hope you've all watched the game, slept a little bit, I'll just repeat that the Labour and Solidarity Club, reformers and independents will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92081	Thank you, Mr. Varda. In front of the Club of HNS Representatives Mrs. Maria Puh. Mrs. Maria Puh. Here you go, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92082	I apologize to the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state, here, today is one big day, I would say about Croatia and about yesterday's great victory of our firemen and I consider it a great victory which today, this law is on the agenda of our session. It's the first reading, but hopefully the second reading will be soon, so we'll have one appropriate law for all victims of sexual violence against children. Recently, we only had a thematic session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, where we talked about the subject and at which, I knew that statistics related to sexual abuse of children were very ugly but when we heard all that data at the session, I don't think there was a person who was in that thematic session and that she left the calm soul from that session. 510 children per year in Croatia are victims of sexual violence, of which there are approximately 300 perpetrators, so they are very large relapsers, they repeat their actions and seek more and more of their victims. Unfortunately, 85% of the victims are girls. What I don't know is a word to use, of all sexual delicacies in the Republic of Croatia sexual abuse of children, is 76%, meaning 76% of all sexual delicacies that happen in the Republic of Croatia are happening over children. This law is more than necessary and one of, I would say definitely all the changes that are being made in it are positive and good, but I think the best and greatest change is that there is no longer any statute of limitations to commit this crime. Why is that extremely important? This is extremely important for the reason why it is known, unfortunately, that only 10% of the abuse that is happening is actually reported. And the time it takes to trust a child, to tell someone he can be 10 to 16 years old, and many, unfortunately, don't have the courage, to gain the strength to confide in someone, to report abuse. Unfortunately, in such cases children are most often manipulated, threatened to do something to them or their parents if they give up, said it must be their little secret, that everyone is doing it, and unfortunately that one psychological manipulation of children is coming to this frightening fact that children simply don't dare trust someone. We know for ourselves that there are a lot of grief in schools when something happens, but that's the most terrible crime that happens just as children leave it inside and don't report it, so that abolishing antiquity is definitely a very big message to all paedophiles that sooner or later they will reach the hand of the law and will be responsible for their actions that they have committed. In addition to working on this improvement of the legislative initiative today, what we definitely need and what we should be working on is the need, the great need to strengthen inter-resor cooperation, the need for all institutions that when a child and reported being sexually abused to coordinate much better and not to make the child an even greater sacrifice, not to repeat the interrogation of the child, but to do so in one appropriate way, not to give more statements, but to record it once, because unfortunately, the provision was that judges should have the right, if they think it is necessary, to listen to the child again, means they have the right, and unfortunately most of them are using it and traumatizing the child again because each of their return to what happened, each child simply falls more into depression. Unfortunately, depression and lack of happiness hormone is a scientific data that has been proven and appears in all victims of pedophilia. And what's very, very worrying is that children who have been sexually abused and who have been victimized by paedophiles are only four times more suicidal, whether as children or at a later age, are simply more prone to it. This law must be a clear message to the paedophiles that their misdemeanors will be punished much more, that they will reach them before or after the consequences of their actions, and I hope it will deter them from committing these crimes. What is still very important is that there is also no erasure of legally convicted persons for pedophilia and that they will be requested from the register of criminal records for all those institutions where people work with children. So it's about schools, it's about sports companies, all the associations that work with children should ask people who hire or who take to work with children to get out of that register so that we don't have to go back to a playroom, in some sports club coach being the person who's in the register of criminal records, and actually nobody asked for confirmation of that. The HNS Club will be for this law and I hope that we have it in second reading as soon as possible and that it will come into effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92083	Thank you very much. No throwing, please. Mrs. Zeljka Josic is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92084	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would refer again to our suggestions that my colleague presented very well here. Everyone who told me before here is very clear why we need these changes, i.e. amendments and additions to the Penal Code. All of us kids are extremely important, we're all mostly parents, and we know what our kids would go through and how they would feel if they happened to be victims of paedophiles. What I would certainly say is that these changes and additions in some way raise the standard of protection and prevent convicted perpetrators from being in direct contact with our children. Of course, these amendments and additions are also governed by a safeguard measure, especially those of violence and sexual delicacies against convicts who spent a shorter period of time on the maintenance of a prison sentence. This is what I find extremely important, as well as the part that we suggested that pedophiles themselves should not be deleted from the very records of paedophiles. Why does it matter? According to some statistics, the majority of the perpetrators are men. If you look at the percentage of coaches, teachers, those people who are in direct contact with children, we think that it is not only a recommendation for employers who work with such people to ask if they are in a particular record, but we think that it is also a major obligation. It's from all of this that's been mentioned earlier, because each of these people who are a potential perpetrator or who was the perpetrator can cause a child permanent trauma. What the Convention of the Council of Europe proposes in its Article 33 to limit the time limit for the initiation of a criminal procedure for sexual offences committed over a child is sufficient to enable the effective initiation of a particular procedure, especially for those children who were not then minor and who were victims. These amendments and additions to the law would also regulate that criminal persecution does not become obsolete in the serious crimes of child abuse and exploitation. As you know, the Penal Code in these cases speaks of two groups. It means children up to 15 and children after 15 years. The penalties of the law we thought were quite, I wouldn't say gentle, but in any case these proposals that are in addition and amendments we consider to be much more concrete for those who are perpetrators. These changes regulate stricter punishment for the offences of sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 and of a child older than 15 years. Then to satisfy the desire before a child under the age of 15, cheating children to meet sexual needs, pimping a child, exploiting a child for pornography, pornographic performances, severe acts of sexual abuse and child exploitation. This is exactly the kind of harsher punishment that we consider to be such stricter punishment socially justified and thus sends a very clear message to all those who are perpetrators and those who have not so far discovered that this is indeed a criminal offence, a serious crime, and that this, again, I stress, is trauma to those who are most vulnerable. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Abuse and Exploitation requires countries to take certain measures to encourage any person who knows or assumes that it is violence against the child, particularly sexual abuse and exploitation to report it to the competent authorities. What is certainly important is that it will enable the raising of child protection standards and contribute to the prevention of sexual abuse and exploitation of children and especially children used for child pornography. What I would certainly point out, according to some statistics in Croatia, the number of crimes of child sexual abuse is on the rise. What we see in our register is about 1400 registered paedophiles, but the assumptions are that there are several times more. It's believed there could be about 10,000 of them somewhere. Most often, as I pointed out, men are often family members. From the last thing we have data, I think that since 2016, out of about 1,400 convicted paedophiles, it's all 19 women. Now, what I already said at the beginning, and what is very important, is that all those who are rehabilitated, who have served their sentences in a very short period come out of this register of paedophiles. We of course suggested that it be permanent. I explained why it's very important. I will repeat once again what is important to my parents and children, which is that these children are not in any way traumatized because every child deserves a carefree childhood and a happy childhood and in any case these amendments and additions to the Penal Code will help. But the law itself on paper will mean nothing if those who enforce that law do not implement it as it literally does. I know our judges are overwhelmed, I know there are too many crimes, but what I certainly appeal to them to be and to be directed right towards that population that is extremely sensitive to us and that matters to us. I thank all the clubs that have supported this bill and I believe that through the second reading, we will come up with perhaps some other proposals and that this will interfere with our amendments and additions to the Penal Code and we thank the Ministry of Justice for supporting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92085	Thank you, Mrs. Josic. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92086	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The SDP club supports any initiative that will deal seriously and systematically with this major problem that we have been paying too much attention to. Of course we can't, and we won't be against the amendments to the penal code proposed by the HDZ Club because we're very aware of what this problem is. We were recently discussing the Ombudsman's report for children and we had opportunities to remind ourselves of the huge shortcomings in the system that should protect children, and I don't know by which times we've consciously, hopefully, the fact that children are not simply focused and that we are not showing a clear willingness to bring this problem down to the least possible extent. In addition, the 2016 DORH report, which says that the most judgments were made, that they were conditional, significantly less prison sentences, and that 2,000 173 defendants were left in the work of courts where the verdicts were not reached. So that's a terrible piece of information. In this regard, this information relates to the direct violation of some laws, some other laws and so on the urgency of the procedure provided for in Article 4. The Youth Court Act. So Croatia has not built a quality and efficient child protection system against sexual exploitation and abuse. And I hope that, all together, we've regained consciousness. It's amazing, when you start to list what's really missing in the child protection system when we talk about this problem, it doesn't satisfy the system of support for the victim's child, so help and treatment to get over the trauma that the child has experienced. There are no centres for the forensic examination of the victim's child in every district center or bar in regional centres. There is no efficient pedophile control system under a sustained sentence, there is no systematicly organised prevention available to children. So the justice system, along with some minor shifts in the last 5, 6 years, has actually not been adapted to the victims' children at all and endangers the child from re-traumaticisation or multiple trials. Judicial practice, court practice is unequal both to the treatment of the victim's child and to the punishment of the perpetrator of sexual, or sexual violence against the child. About the length of court proceedings, is there one word at all? About the disgraceful judgments, so we're all witnesses to it. Therefore, children are not protected from contact with paedophile, penalties are too mild for the perpetrators, all children do not have the same recovery options because they are not equally available services and services of assistance and support, which means that there is direct discrimination against children. We don't have enough experts and institutions to treat child sexual abuse, lack of education, supervisions of experts, etc., etc., etc. So it is indeed high time to deal with this problem seriously and systematically. So far, the practice is not good, and we have to change it. I've already said on several occasions, it wouldn't be good to wait too long, wait for something terrible to happen that's already happened in neighboring countries, we know their experiences. So we should use other people's good practices and good laws if they have them and they exist, there are. It's time to show responsibility and understanding and willingness to do something that I actually think the public is expecting from us and it's a new law. So they will support the SDP's amendments to the Penal Code, because, as I said at the outset, we support any initiative that goes in terms of better solving some issues, but will the Penal Code help us deal with this problem systematically and seriously? No, we don't believe that. We believe he's a fireman. And for that kind of firepower, we'll give our vote. However, we remain on the stand that we need a new law, anti-pedophilic, and therefore, as a club, we will also propose a conclusion that would oblige the government to make a new so-called. Antipedophilic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92087	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. We only have one individual discussion. Mrs. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92088	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Secretary of State and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it was necessary to go to these Amendments and supplements of the Penal Code because I don't have words to express my indignation that there are people who sexually abuse children and over 15 years of age, who are satisfying their desires in front of a child under 15 years of age, mother children, to meet sexual needs, to mislead children, to exploit children for pornography, to exploit children for pornographic performances, and to do serious acts of sexual abuse and child abuse. It was really necessary to go to such amendments and additions to the Penal Code in order to punish them more severely. The figures available to us say that from 2014 to today, the crimes of sexual abuse of a child under the age of 15 were 140 condemning, 3 liberating and two convictions for innumerable. For the serious crimes of child sexual abuse, there were 27 condemning and one acquittals. However, when we know that according to the applicable Penal Code, the prosecution of severe acts of abuse and exploitation of a child really is very good in this law that one such persecution does not go out of date, it must not become obsolete and the time-limits for the initiation of a sexual delinquency procedure should not prevent the child from taking action and when the child becomes a adult because we know that it takes a very long time for the person to be able to talk about the type of abuse. Unfortunately, every couple of months, we have bombing headlines in the paper, and we see that in certain places and from some people we wouldn't expect it to happen, such acts happen that parents can't even dream when I say so, and the institution sends their child that such an evil may happen to them. And indeed that deadline must not be limited. Also, the duty of citizens to protect a child must be ahead of professional secrecy and should be liable to criminally respond because it protects the committing of a criminal offence and thus exposes the possibility of repeating the same crime. Whoever did this one time, if he knows and sees that he's not punished, he'll reach for it both the second and the third times. I'd say it's about sick people, that's for sure a healthy man will never allow himself or think, without telling those people who have their children, that something like that won't come to their mind. That is why we are all tasked together to protect our children more strongly, to prevent convicted perpetrators from being in direct and regular contact with children and for the full execution of prison sentences in acts of violence and sexual delinquency and those who spent a shorter period of time in supporting prison sentences. In fact, we are witnessing that depending on which judge, in which court, the same crime is known to be the different lengths of the prison sentence. However, these are such as my opinion of persons who have certain and diagnosis, surely that they can reach for such a thing again and there should be one such registry and such people must be kept under observation longer to protect children more strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92089	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mrs. Željke Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92090	Thank you. Here are you colleagues who have opened another question here, and this is a question of rehabilitation not only of the victims themselves but of the perpetrator himself, which I personally think as a doctor is extremely important because it is not enough just to have a register but also to give these perpetrators some help, and you yourself have said that they already have certain diagnosis. What you certainly pointed out, what I said and in my debate, so the Law is not only enough for us, we also care for those who implement the Law, our courts are important to us, and here our representatives from the Ministry of Justice and I believe that soon we will have some kind of rope specialization with our judges, and that they are not the only judges to say the general direction conditionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92091	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92092	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, here I will repeat once again that I think that these are not healthy people, that they are sick persons, that they also need some help not to repeat these acts, and we must all contribute together to making these cases as little as possible and not just the Ministry of Justice, but also the Ministry of Health, and surely the Ministry of Demography, we must all step forward together so that, as I said, protect the children as best and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92093	Final word, Ms. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92094	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, I want to thank all my colleagues and colleagues for a constructive and supportive debate and especially colleagues from the Ministry of Justice, I see here that we have been joined by a colleague of Shimunja. I also want to thank everyone who has contributed to the Attorney General in any way. It is mentioned here that several things are not covered by the amendments to this criminal law or by another bill, which is education and support system for children victims. Unfortunately, they are not concerned with criminal law but with some other laws, but what is important is highlighted for the education and awareness of children as all dangers lurk, also mentioned by counterpart Varda in his debate, counterpart Puh, colleague Romana Jerkovic. Therefore, for education and awareness-raising of children it is also necessary to include the activities of civil associations. I see here at the gallery that the representative of the Association of the Lions, Mrs. Pope, also greets her. So other than all the state bodies participating, of course the Ministry of Justice, as counterpart Branko said, it is also necessary to include a civil sector on this subject, especially on the subject of education. What's not mentioned here on the Internet. The Internet today is a very powerful tool that practically makes it easier for such people to reach children or victims and of course that children need to be warned from early age in an appropriate and understandable way about these dangers and of course they need to be through systems not only schooled but also preventive where I mentioned the importance of the MUP and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education point to all these dangers. What's also important to say at the end, we have for example a criminal offense range of 3-12 years and what happens most often? This was also said by a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club, so that judges tend to impose lower sentences, very, very rarely give maximum penalties even though they have the opportunity to do so. And that shows practice. That is why we can sharpen these penalties, and that is the intensity of this law, but at the same time we will not be able to influence judges with such judgments. It is therefore important to conduct the education of judges or, better yet, to specialize judges in this kind of crime, and I hope that this will soon come on the agenda because it would also be one of the preconditions for successful law enforcement and, of course, preventing further trauma of such children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92095	Thank you, too. I'm concluding, and there's one replica, and yes, I'm sorry, I saw it before that, Mrs. Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92096	Dear colleagues, I'm only interested, last week we had amendments and additions to the Penal Code in the House, and now we have re-amendments and additions to the Penal Code. I'm curious before the final amendment of the Penal Code will all go into the final proposal and be joined 2 in 1? That we don't have two amendments to the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92097	Here's your answer if you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92098	Thank you very much. As far as I am aware, it is a alignment with the European directives, and this is a proposal for an amendment that has been on the agenda since 26 November. But I suppose, since the Penal Code is organic, that one can go into a common united amendment, but that will be decided by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92099	Thank you, too. Now we're really closing the debate and we're going to vote tomorrow. Now a brief notice, if we finish the debate 13 hours ago, you can tell your party colleagues from your parties who want to have the debate that we have at 13 o'clock. So if we finish the debate 13 hours ago, after the debate on the next point is over, we'll move on to the club's point of view. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 244, the proposal is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that with 112 for and 3 abstentions, so most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. A SDP representative club, is it about this law? ... I can't give you an emergency if it's an emergency. ... [[The intruder on the side, he doesn't understand.]] I can't give you a break for that. ... [[The intruder on the side, he doesn't understand.]] Let's just finish this point a little bit. [[The intruder on the side, he doesn't understand.]] The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: It is called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a special law within 6 months to regulate the area of protection of children and minors against sexual offences. I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion, please. ... I find that this conclusion has not received the required number of votes, 29 for and 77 against, so we have not passed it in this law proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. [[The intruder on the side, he doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Comrade Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92101	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. I am looking on behalf of the HSS Assembly Representatives' Club for a break related to the news that has just come, that is that Mrs. Martina Dalic, former Deputy Prime Minister, is clearly in conflict of interest. So the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest found that you all together not only her, but all together the whole government is still not so clean around the entire Agrokor case. So the conflict of interest means that those 500 million kunas that have disappeared, that's exactly what the opposition has been talking about all along, which you've been trying to cover up all along, and your prime minister and most of the Parliament's and your coalition partners, your trailers are trying to show as a blur of some foggy, petty non-essential details that weigh 500 million kuna and now it's the Committee of Prevention. conflict of interest also found that these things were not clean [[Intruder president: colleague Beljak.]] Please pause within 10 minutes [[Intruder president: colleague Beljak.]] to advise opposition clubs on how to continue voting on certain proposals that you have on the agenda. [[Invader President: Comrade Beljak, I ask you to stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92102	Okay. So I'm not going to grant you a break because there are no conditions for the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I'm giving you a warning because you used this request for a break for something that wasn't defined by the Rules of Procedure, you knew very well. You said what you wanted obviously, but I'm giving you a break. I'm giving a warning, not a break. [[Beljak: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92103	And now we're going to the bill of law, which is the last draft of the law today. - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, first reading is the Proposal for a Club of Representatives of the HDZ on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As you have seen from the title, it is the first reading, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation first? I guess Irena Petrievcan Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is an amendment to Article 17 of the Law since Croatia does not have a separate so-called the register of legally convicted paedophiles, but in the context of existing criminal records, in a special way, defines the collection, storage and provision of data on the perpetrators of certain criminal offences to the harm of children, as it is said. On our initiative, this Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation would actually be extended in a way that, after a certain expiry of the deadline, the data has therefore had certain time limits for the conviction of a long-term prison of 40 years to, say, 6 years for
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92105	Please be quiet out there, please, Mr. Shucker, I beg your pardon. What do I have to do to make you quiet down? Thank you very much for your heart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92106	Thank you very much. So 6 years for the smallest forms, i.e. Convictions to prisons of 1 year probationary sentence work for the greater good. So now our proposal is that the data on sex offenders in the criminal record are kept permanently to be available for the purpose of verifying and after the rehabilitation, that is to say, we would be able to prevent the perpetrator of the sex delinquent from being able to do harm to the child after the expiry of that period, so it would no longer be possible to verify his criminal past. For example, such persons could now become foster parents, be employed in certain jobs where they come in contact with children or at any other business if the employer has not checked those data from the criminal record. In this way, these data would be permanent, would not be deleted, and all employers who want to hire a person who comes into direct contact, works or performs activities or duties with children would practically be checked in this way and we think that this is a very important preventive measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92107	Thank you, too. Is there anything the motionary's representative, this government pardon, would like to add? Here's Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs, MPs. So the government has already shown itself on this initiative that actually makes up one package with the previous law. We will, of course, support that, and we will be concerned with you to finally obtain a text in which you too will collude this through your amendments, possibly, that this segment does not only violate this overall harmony of material criminal law and there are some mild risks, so together with the Proposer and you, we will be kind of careful not to violate any other rights prescribed by the Constitution and by other laws in the Republic of Croatia, so here, we expect everyone to cooperate, and in this regard, we will follow this through the end between the two readings, eventually intervene if we conclude that there is such a risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92109	Thank you, Secretary of State. Would anyone like to take a word from the board? No, we're moving on to a debate. So I'm opening a debate. First, Mr. Miro Bulj appeared in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate. The second is Mrs. Zeljka Josic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92110	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State with an assistant, co-workers and colleagues. We have already touched these changes at the previous point, so our proposal is very clear here and that data from criminal records is not deleted and that they are kept permanently for persons legally convicted for the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of children. Why does it matter to us? At this point, we do not know how many paedophiles have been deleted from the register because they have been rehabilitated and there are no statistics in the Ministry of Justice on this because the data on convicted paedophiles who served the sentence after the rehabilitation period has expired are deleted. I have previously pointed out that it is extremely important for us to work with our children, how we work and that it is not just a college diploma or any school completed is enough and enough to work with children. What is extremely important is that so far, all rehabilitated pedophiles have been able to re-employ with children even though there were no guarantees that they would no longer repeat the same crime. What I just pointed out in my replica is not only a victim’s need for certain rehabilitation and help but also help for those who are committing a certain crime. I don't think they're more important than the victim, but I think they have a certain problem that they're causing their victim, and that they should definitely be treated and monitored, and in this way, if we have databases, in some way we'll be able to protect children in at least that they can't have direct contact with their child at least as far as the education and education system is concerned, because what's happening to us today is that the law itself is contrary to what it says in the Council of Europe Convention itself to combat all forms of sexual violence. What is certainly recommended here should be repeated once more that none of the employers are currently obliged to check in the employment of a person who will work with children, whether they are in the register of paedophiles or not. And in doing so, I have to point out that it's all about those who work in playgrounds, sports clubs, schools, kindergartens. Therefore, other than being recommended, it should certainly be an obligation to put it in a certain legal framework. And in the end, I would just say that the right of a child to be above the rights of every convicted person for sexual crimes to harm a child because every day we keep stressing that children are our future and I think that we should behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92111	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual ones. I'm sorry, Mrs. Maria Puh, in front of the HNS Representatives' Club, we have another club, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92112	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with associates. That is, as we have already discussed today and under this first law, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of a conviction in criminal records and rehabilitation will determine that all data on perpetrators of criminal offences of abuse and exploitation of a child in the criminal record will be kept permanent and not deleted. This is one item and a great provision, as it is abolished, because simply the perpetrators of a crime, I believe, will at least think about it a little before a possible crime is committed if they know that all their life will have to look behind their shoulders and see if their victim will finally collect courage, report a crime that happened and so on, that information simply must not give the perpetrators of such misdemeanors any more opportunity to repeat their crimes, I definitely do not think that if one person will commit such a criminal act, unfortunately, the relapse of these crimes is very large, and if I believe, if they come and opportunity and opportunity, although they pass and rehabilitation and all, unfortunately, very often they do well because, as I have already told them of such a criminal act, it is no longer possible to be able to register with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92113	Thank you, too. And now we're really moving on to individual debates. We have two, the first Mrs. Zeljka Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92114	Thank you. I would now at the end, here we discussed on two occasions, first there was a proposal and amendments and addition of the Penal Code, and now this would somehow conclude that we can't just call this a statement in certain media written by anti-pedophilic law, but rather by the provisions of the Penal Code where it would very clearly regulate penalties, but also protect every child's right, and that's the right to their quality of life, to have a carefree childhood and in any case punish all those who make such a serious crime. What should certainly be highlighted by some data in Croatia is the increase in sexual abuse of children and child exploitation. Earlier, a colleague pointed out how many cases during the previous year. That's certainly worrying, and I'm even more concerned about the fact that we have only about 1,400 registered pedophiles. What professional services are saying is that this needs to be multiplied by 10 more, so that's one extremely, extremely scary data. If we take into account that our children are on social networks very often today, that they come in contact with different people, that they are often not aware of the dangers they are threatened by, it is through this debate that these children need protection, they need education, not only by parents, but also by educational institutions. What we have in this last debate has all agreed that the register of paedophiles should be permanent, should be life-long and should also be prevented, apart from their rehabilitation, from coming back into contact with children, or in some way rehabilitating them to do such a crime again, which you all know very well that this is difficult. I don't think we should go to drastic measures like at some point Poland has come out that the register has to be made public, but every employer who knows that the person who hires will be in direct contact with the child or indirect contact with the child should definitely have a register of pedophile available. And once again, I would point out that every child has the right to a quality childhood, to a healthy childhood, and to a happy childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92115	You have two replicas. The first is Mrs. Maria Puh's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92116	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a esteemed colleague, you encouraged me to this replica after you mentioned the Internet, and that possibility that paedophiles actually have practically has children standing in their palm. We often have opportunities to see various publications on Facebook where parents themselves are going to fight pedophiles and various different correspondences that are more than shocking and I know that this may be in some way a drastic measure, but one of my thoughts was even that convicted perpetrators of such acts would simply disable access to the Internet ever again, I know that jets are difficult and difficult to do, but I think give it one way to also deny them access to children. And as you said to strengthen associations, it is necessary, among other things, to strengthen the support of victims and families of those victims because unfortunately they have lasting consequences for their lives, they practically suffer the consequences of these misdemeanors that happen over them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92117	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92118	I completely agree with you. Of course, everyone needs support, especially to the victims, especially because they are children, regardless of their child until 15 or after 15 years, that child needs support because it is only at the beginning of his journey, but also parents. Don’t forget that parents spend their whole care of their child in support of their child completely wear out. And every child really in that battle should have a stable parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92119	The second replica of Mrs. Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague, I'm listening to this debate this morning, and I have one question in a way. We're talking about penalties, we're not talking about prevention, and I'm going to ask specifically now. For example. So you have a sport that a bunch of kids and coaches are your volunteers, and it doesn't say anywhere that I as club president have to get some confirmation for that coach and how I'm gonna get it, who's gonna have a look at the register, how does someone know and how they're gonna get a look at the register? So this is just the beginning, we have to work on all the other laws, that's what I said on the board. We must work to prevent such a person from contacting children at all. I'm just telling you about sports, so it's awfully widespread. Volunteer coaches go to trust, so there's no concrete confirmation, nor do they bring a certificate of impunity, let alone anything else. So if we bring this in, let's change a bunch of other laws right now to protect and prevent it from happening at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92121	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92122	Thank you. You're right about your co-workers and what you are and what we're always missing somehow in passing all our laws is that prevention. I don't mean all of them in general right now, I mean those who are concerned with certain problematic behavior. You're right when you mention sports, because what we have unfortunately, of course, there are other things besides sports. What's always asked is, with volunteers, how and how we're going to control them. But I believe this is only in the proposal and in the first reading, let's just say that these proposals, our representatives of the ministry are here and they've heard everything we've suggested. That we'll combine, not just those who are permanently employed, but all those who are in any kind of contact with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92123	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92124	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It was necessary to go to the addition of this law, on legal consequences, convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. We're witnessing that very often we have inscriptions in the paper, says he was cheating on girls at school, they let the lusters go free. Next, on Facebook, he asked a girl to send naked photos. A movie businessman harassed a girl, a professor accused of pedophile teaches students in several schools. We see that both teachers and businessmen and people who hang around schools and those on Facebook unfortunately and priests, we can no longer predict who they are and what kind of people come into contact with our children and that they can do something like that, we can no longer predict either the place or the time, because as we see, when a child goes to school, something like that can happen to him. It can happen to him on Facebook in church and cinema. If it's very hard to recognize them, we also have a sign, says the paedophile's wife, says I had no idea, my stomach is turning. So neither the wife, in her home, in her condition, could recognize that she had lived with such a person for years. The last thing we had was the writings of a pedophile in Croatian schools. No matter what our minister, she immediately sent an inspection, but apparently we didn't have well-regulated good legal regulations, which would make it impossible for the professor to work in several schools, though he says, to have a powerful charge of sexual abuse of children. Just by supplementing this law, I think it will be disabled. My colleague mentioned associations, I believe, that after the adoption of this law, when the data on the perpetrators of such works will be kept permanent and will not be deleted and that the keeping of a separate register for the legally convicted persons for the criminal acts of sexual abuse and exploitation of the child will be within the criminal record, that, of course, certain not to say the person, or, as well, the institutions will have insight into it, and either of us, as president of the association, that they will be able and will have to have insight and see if that person has such an impact on their burden. So I welcome this bill, and I believe until the second reading, that something from these suggestions and remarks will also be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92125	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92126	I fully agree that we must do everything as a society to protect our children from paedophiles. You mentioned teachers, intellectuals, people who work on Facebook, and you're absolutely right about that. Pedophiles come from all groups. My question to you is the threshold of Pope Francis' confession... towards the church. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you plan to protect the children from paedophile priests?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92127	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92128	Thank you very much, Jovanovic, I mentioned, unfortunately, that there are, Stazic, excuse me, I mentioned that unfortunately there is also a church, that we also have a case with the priest and I think that this previous law, which is precisely what might have to be more clearly formulated, that the professional secret must not be in front of the civic obligation to bring such a thing in. Because even in my previous debate, I said that whoever does it once and doesn't get punished, I'm afraid they'll do it once more, twice if not again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92129	The next replica, the esteemed advocates of Maria Puh, which is not, well. Then the next replica, the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92130	Dear Vice President, you mentioned and yet, you mentioned who is capable and who is the perpetrator of the criminal part of sexual violence against children, but we need to stress here and recognise, unlike some other countries, that in Croatia, however, it is even more emphasized that a much greater number of violent persons are coming from the priestly ranks. And that's the fact, precisely because we are such a country, and it's a Catholic church in question, which forbids a lot of things, so obviously there's no power to fight what it is, because SDP has also proposed one or will actually propose and thinks it should instead, I support this but bring one lex specialist, one special law, which would actually include all the punishment and protection of children and minors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92131	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92132	Thank you very much. Well, I'll say it again for every person, whoever does it, if that's what the priests do. I wouldn't say that in the Republic of Croatia there are more cases that pedophilia is by priests and church, that it happens, just because we're a Catholic country, that it's a bigger surprise and disappointment, so then there's stronger newspaper inscriptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92133	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92134	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Martinchev, paedophilia is the problem we have to deal with, I think it's the right law to do it, not just to make changes that are done year by year, we're not solving the real problem. I think the penalties for paedophiles who are convicted should be more drastic than they are today. However, in your discussion, you did have sexual discrimination. In your discussion, you only talk about paedophiles in men, intellectuals, priests, only in men. I believe that is not so and that when it comes to pedophile that it is not only a male and it exists on the female side and as such is a problem of one and the other gender but Croatia is too mildly acting in this because we know what our courts and the things that happen to these children are permanent for life, damage done. We find this law too mild and should be far more severe than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92135	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92136	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, we talked about criminal law a little while ago, and then we talked about criminal provisions, not obsolescence, stricter punishment and so forth. We're only talking about records in this. When I was talking about male gender, you should know that 96% of pedophile is precisely male, unfortunately, 4% are all women.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92137	The next replica is the respected representative Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, I am pleased to agree and to hope, we are deeply hoping that together with us and with colleagues who come from the ministry you will find a way to find out exactly what we were talking about, access to the register, especially when it comes to the presidents of associations run by children, to simply find a model to have insight into that register and to know whether it is by chance that person who will volunteer and work in the association, work with children, to be in contact with children every day. I happen to be in the register, because we really don't have any knowledge right now and we have, these coaches, I'm talking about coaches and people of other organizations who have full freedom to work with these kids without control, because they're one-on-one with those kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92139	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Juric-in-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92140	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think that regardless of which side we belong and the party that we all have to be together to protect our children better and those who practice and train daily in some clubs, but we also need to educate the presidents of clubs who certainly don't know that even now they can have an insight into the record as it exists and this bill will certainly make them better and better. It is therefore now possible to ask for insight and see if a person has already been prosecuted or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92141	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marin Škibola. ... Apparently, I have the wrong information all the time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we don't have a replica anymore. That's what I'd like to conclude. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'd go straight to the point of view on behalf of the clubs. And the first Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS. ... Ah, on behalf of the promoter, I must admit I haven't seen but well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, then. Honorable representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92142	I'm sorry, I waved, but you didn't see, I didn't see enough. Here, so very briefly. Here was before us the Law on Legal Consequences, Convictions, Rehabilitation and Criminal Records, we heard about what the main amendments were to the debate that was now under way over this second bill. So what's said about the insight from the criminal record. Every principal in primary school, preschool, president of a sports club, or someone who wants to hire a nanny, for example. or anyone who can work, come in contact with the children already and now has the right and has the opportunity to request an excerpt from the criminal record which is even desirable and necessary and has gone a few times a guideline from the Ministry of Justice as so-called. the circle, that is exactly what the rule is used and applied. Why doesn't a principal or a sports club president keep asking for it when hiring a person we can't get into. Of course it's already possible. There is a great discrepancy between some laws, so let's say in the Law on Nannys, it explicitly states: “Crime acts against sexual freedom and sexual disorder and criminal acts against sexual abuse and child exploitation.” So it is a quote that says that such persons cannot work as nannies. But on the other hand, you have the Law on Preschool Education and Education where it's just said, I quote: "Punitical acts against sexual freedom." And let's say the Law on Education and Education in High School, the Act on Sport where there's no saying at all, that's what you thought, but that doesn't mean that this person who hires someone in that workplace where they're going to come in contact with children shouldn't check it out, that's primarily the responsibility of that employer. What was mentioned repeatedly in the debate, a special law. That is where it needs to be clearly and decadently explained what this is all about. It's not too mild a law, it's just the opposite. The whole Head of Criminal Law, Chapter 17, which is even more than that, the judges would say drastic changes to the Penal Code, so plus this law we're talking about now, so two laws. From the comparative analysis of the criminal legislation of some EU Member States, not to mention them in particular now, it is more than evident that the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child are contained in the penal laws of those Member States, and not in secondary, or specific legislation, there are, of course, exceptions, Serbia is the exception, I mentioned earlier, which is in fact further indicating that this penal law of the Republic of Croatia is actually in line with the existing standards of EU Member States, Serbia as far as I know. Thus, to protect children from sexual exploitation and abuse. That so-called. I repeat that Serbia is not an EU member, so it does not contain the descriptions of the crimes, nor does it impose sanctions on it, but does it? So he points to their criminal, or criminal. So there's really no need for a special law if you change the whole head of a criminal which is more than a major change and into more items. So in all articles and in several items of each article. Once again, I thank everyone for a constructive and supportive debate, and I hope that by the second reading we will achieve an even greater consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92143	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative, Marija Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92144	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, indeed as we have spoken and colleagues all here and all who have appeared, indeed welcome all that is done in order to protect children because these are the works that are truly the most terrible, the worst. When you mentioned it, I came forward because you mentioned some laws in which the saying does not state protection in terms of or demand from the registers in certain laws. What I was about to mention, we recently had the first reading of the Household Law and should also say exactly what you were talking about and what should be the word that those with whom the rehabilitation took place would not be able to perform this particular activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92145	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ana Komaračić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague and I agree, except for one fact that you mention employers. When I mentioned associations, they're not your employers. I don't mean people who have a complete self-port of secretaries, secretaries, and I don't know what. I'm telling you about people who give their free time to the president through all the people who work in that association their free time and actually occupy the free time of children that these kids are not exactly on the Internet, that these kids are not on the street, that they're not going through cafes, but that they're dealing with some kind of sports, whether they're being cultured, whether they're doing some other activity. So I'm talking about these people, these people don't have that port and you're saying they're guilty, not they're not guilty, the system is guilty, and that's why I keep telling you that we can't change just one law, we have to work on prevention. We need to change those laws that will allow these people to just prevent what they're after and what we're fighting for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92147	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92148	Dear fellow Members, I have been following this debate a little bit, and I have seen that you have practically boasted that this is a major statement by the HDZ Club, but I think it would have been a turn here in the debate that it was mentioned that a colleague of Strenja-Linić had practically forced this point to be put on the agenda by collecting more than 30 signatures, that this had long been standing, that it had been proposed, but that there was no debate here in the Croatian Parliament, which shows that it was neither the government of the Republic nor the President of the Parliament who did not want to put this item on the agenda, and today it is said how important it is, how important it is, how important it is, how much a step. So if the signatures had not been collected, this would not have been discussed here today in the Croatian Parliament. That's what to say and emphasize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92149	The answer of the respected representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grmoja, MOST could otherwise show that it supports changes to the laws concerning strengthening the prevention and sanctioning of sexual abuse of children in Croatia. Otherwise, we're talking about the HDZ proposal, one and the other. Otherwise, these are the most difficult forms of crime, and this should mean special seriousness and responsibility when we talk about this subject, and despite this being an unfounded topic, this topic should not happen to become a polygon for political bickering and inappropriate advances, and especially should any unfounded criticism or collecting points, without ever being serious about this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92151	What's the injured Rules of Procedure? You picked up a plate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92152	I don't know what my approach was inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92153	Wait, I'm sorry. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92154	Injured Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92155	And what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92156	Well, my colleague said that someone here was collecting some political points, that it was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92157	Well, that's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92158	If it had been an inappropriate act, I had merely expressed the fact that this point would not have been debated if the colleague had not collected the signatures and that this point was not a priority to the government, as well as to the President of the Parliament, and that is the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92159	Comrade Grmoy, I'm going to tell you first because you abused the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then I'm going to tell you that you followed a little debate, and you didn't, but you ran inside then you'd know that a colleague of Strenja-Linić was collecting signatures for the point before, not for this one. Yeah, yeah, not for what you're saying, so... Let's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I would now conclude this debate, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92160	We continue with the vote of the draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records, rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 245, the proposal is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records, rehabilitation and the second, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that with most votes, 120 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure because a business condition has been obtained to grant a recess since Mr. Beljak has requested a break concerning the possible legal consequences of Agrokor and, as we voted on the legal consequences of the conviction in criminal records and rehabilitation, it is possible that he had the right to seek a break before that, so I ask you to grant him a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-12-0.u92162	Okay, I'm not gonna give him a break and I'm not gonna give you a warning because I think you tried to explain in good faith that it existed, but, well, you couldn't convince me. We're moving on.
