ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92461	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who watch us. I'm going to talk about an updated version of the restructuring of the Uljanik Shipyard and May 3rd, which means the innovative concept that we're asking here is the question of who made it up doesn't write the name of the author, is that management, if it's written by the existing administration that brought these shipyards into trouble, then imagine the same people who destroyed the Oil and Third May are now writing how to solve their problems. On the other hand, the chairman of the Uljannik Supervisory Board is a man who is the director of the Oilic navigation of a private company, which I do not know how many years ago was the head director of the Oilic Group. So we see here how many conflicts of interest, incestuous relationships, etc. However, a few words about this updated restructuring concept that should have gone back to Brussels. We see that the government is silent, why is it silent? What is proposed in this restructuring concept? It is proposed to invest in 4 years of 578m euros, of which the state would invest 60%, and of which I am 40%, while in the second version half. But what is the essence of this restructuring program? This idea of ship production would still take place in a place called the Island where it is now being produced, but one part that is along the coast, which is actually the best, which is called Arsenal, it has a surface of 24 hectares, it is the most important part, it is a jewel because the building land, for it is projected to be cleaned, imagine, in the first phase, that it builds a residential tourist center, and in front of it a marina. Now imagine the marina, this residential and tourist complex, and next to it is welded, drilling, bras, producing ships. I haven't seen it anywhere in the world. Everyone clearly from the plane sees that in the first stage they want to clean up 24 hectares of arsenals, which, according to the expert of the party We change Croatia, is worth between 120m and 240m euros, imagine what that value is and in the second phase, would completely shut down the production of ships. So let's be clear, and this government has to say that by its inaction it supports the transformation of Oilers into real estate business and by its inaction it wants to contribute to the shut-down of ship production. Imagine just moving arsenals, cutting steel, limes in Vodnjan and some more activities would cost over 600 million kuna. Therefore, cleaning the ground for real estate business would be paid by taxpayers and then so on. strategic partners who are not at all interested in ships, manufacturing or having any experience of those present so they would not be producing ships there. I still want to say one thing, namely, at the beginning of this year, at the end of last year, some investors were interested in producing, continuing the production of special, special ships but no one received them. I'm setting up from this place, my fellow citizens, especially I'm talking to you because here in the Parliament we see things standing and in which direction they're driving, we here without you can't bring any key changes to Croatian society and economy. Last year, the finance ministry sent Uljanik supervision, a financial surveillance team, to form a report in half a year on how subsidies were spent, how things were there, etc. They were supposed to do this by the end of 2017, and this report really ended in January of this year. I asked twice again from this place in front of the entire Croatian public asking the prime minister and the finance minister, you said the report was over. We asked the finance minister why he didn't present it to the public, he said he couldn't. So is there such a crime, corruption? Are there intertwined links between politics and institutions that you must not publish this report? I call on you again, today there will be a report on the work of the government and prime minister and finance minister, but today you will announce why you are hiding this report, which is so controversial in it, if you are afraid of some stakeholders because Croatian citizens deserve to be told about it. And I call on the workers of the Oilies and the 2nd. May finally take the fate into their own hands because they are the majority shareholders of both shipyards and other shipyards and make this restructuring process real, business and not political again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92462	Let's move on. The 4th club is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92463	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday I was at a conference held by Vecernji list, titled "Croatia as We Need". It was first held outside Zagreb, held in Koprivnica, in the Podravka building. They were all thrilled with this household, probably not so excited about the way they had to go to Koprivnica because after all the bandages and settlements on the roads they were driving, it probably took them a long time to stabilize and to get their organism back into some stable state. At the conference whose topic was tax reform, there was an opportunity to hear what employers and entrepreneurs think about tax reform. And I am convinced that Minister Zdravko Maric once again had the opportunity to understand and hear that the tax reform that is ahead of us needs, the third phase, should certainly be for the first and the basic intensity to have a reduction and a tax discharge on wages, that wages for people must grow. It was a message that was sent yesterday at that conference. As HDS, last year at the 11th month, we presented one to put forward a proposal on how to raise minimum wages. Today we see that some opposition parties with an identical proposal are also going into parliamentary proceedings. I could say here that I'm glad that someone copied that model but it's not correct to take something like that without at least mentioning whose idea it was, where it came from. But I am convinced that both the Government and Minister Maric, after all these considerations, will understand that there is a need to do something in this direction and that, in this present stage 3 of the tax reform package, they should also enter into even if we have not already provided tax discharges with the amendment of the 9 laws that are now being proposed. When I saw today what it was supposed to be and what Croatia should be, and then I came to my Križevci and went to the gas station. And there I saw Croatia as we shouldn't, talked to people who were fuelling at the time, suffered their anger, justified anger, and today here actually decided to talk about it and invite the resolution bodies in the government of the Republic of Croatia to do something urgent to put the fuel price under such control. This is simply not normal, I am convinced that the government and those who take care of it see for themselves and that they will intervene, react in order to simply reduce that fuel price, in order to reduce the burdens, in order to at least reduce them, in order to intervene that we do not have Croatia as we need it. Here I hope and believe that such conferences as this one was yesterday will continue throughout Croatia, that it will open various topics and would like one of the following topics to be a topic of how to raise wages and thus keep people in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92464	Before we go any further, just a little fellow Pupovac, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Thunder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92465	Thank you, Your Honor. Here is my colleague Hrg, already in several of his steps, talking about his idea of increasing the minimum wage that there is, now the SDP article 238, which is now being kidnapped by the SDP. I have to warn him, and that might be a good idea, but it's a bad realization. So your realization isn't as good and your proposal isn't as smart as you think it is, and I think we should suggest We should suggest 350 or 500 kn [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Grumoja.]] giving for a warm meal and that would be much better, and employers even support it. [[President: You know you deserve a warning.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92466	This was a harsh, deliberate violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92467	There's a colleague, Hrg, here you go. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSB Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So today, on behalf of our club, I will, primarily on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party, say a few words about the problems we face in our society, about the problems that destroy the foundation of our society. Not only are there too few salaries in Croatia, not only do our families often fall apart because of these pay problems, not only do people leave Croatia regularly and generally do not return but we simply do everything to make it so. I often talk about that at a time when we should make every effort to bring about 500 thousand people who have salaries below 5 thousand kunas to laws that will increase their wages. But today I actually want to talk about banning Sundays. This part of the law that says that everything and everyone and everything is allowed in Croatia, including the work on Sundays that has not even been paid adequately, is also one of the very important factors of the bad climate in society. Bad climates because because of this work on Sundays and because of pressure to work on Sundays, I repeat and yet for inadequate pay also makes one of the details why people leave Croatia, go to developed countries, go to countries where work is banned on Sundays, in which it is defined so that people can be with their families, so that they can devote time to themselves, to each other, to their children, to their loved ones. I think it is high time that the proposal of such a law was put before parliamentarians and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and set out to pass a law by which Sunday's work would be absolutely in every way, to the maximum extent possible, as forbidden, in order to preserve that part of the time that people can devote to themselves. Of course, there will be many who will talk about that being impossible, that it must be seen how some might be made to work and some do not work, that some services must work. But I'm going to say that what we all know is that countries are also in the environment and that developed countries have passed such laws that it works there. And at the very least, if we don't know how to write the law ourselves because most of the time when we pass the law, then we're surprised what we've brought and how inapplicable they are. So let's take once a very simple thing, take the law from Austria, rewrite it and apply it simply in Croatia, this law can be applied without any problems because it is very simple and I don't think that without that, this way of accessing our legislation we're not going to make enough good, we're not going to create a positive atmosphere in society, we're not just going to create conditions for people to be more satisfied. Here, I hope that, in due course, it will come to the adoption of the Law on the ban on work on Sundays. I say and repeat, we don't have to invent hot water, let it be the same as in Austria, let's rewrite it, let's bring it in, and let's make it possible for people to be together with their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u92469	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96558	Thank you, we are now moving to the agenda: - The Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so please call on the Prime Minister and his associates. Therefore, the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 128. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, allow me a brief introductory explanation. The President of the Government shall, once a year, at the beginning of the second regular session of the Assembly in accordance with Article 217(1). The Rules of Procedure, orally, presents to the Parliament the Annual Report of the Government in which the Parliament reports about the observed phenomena, problems and state of society as well as the activities of the Government. The Prime Minister's speech on the report may take up to 1 hour. No replica is allowed at the address of the Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure shall determine that the annual report referred to in Article 128(1) of this Rules of Procedure is to be held. Only representatives clubs can participate in the debate. A representative of the club of representatives in the debate can speak for a maximum of 20 minutes. After the debate has been held, the Prime Minister shall submit a final presentation that may take a maximum of 20 minutes and no replica is allowed in the debates. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to file a report, please. Here are my colleagues, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96560	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a recess so my club can consult on a catastrophic report on the state of the psychiatric care of children in Croatia. The situation has been warned on several occasions, Minister Kujundzic knew about it, currently in Croatia nearly 100,000 children have some form of psychiatric problems that have been completely denied by Minister Kujundzic, he has completely crossed the hospital's new national plan and there is no children's adolescent psychiatry which is why we are put in a position to take inadequate care of these children. On two occasions, the Ombudsman warned him about it, asked for urgent information because the neglected way to take care of children is and you currently do not have a single bed for children with psychiatric problems until Rijeka to Dubrovnik. Currently in Croatia you have only 37 child psychiatrists compared to 500 people who treat adults. That is why the minister was warned on two occasions and Europe has warned us again in this report that has arrived in recent days. The minister missed this, and in the national development plan, hospitals completely abolished children's and adolescents' beds in child and adolescent psychiatry. It's scandalous, she also warned the Ombudsman about the children, and she asked for it because the minister had completely ignored it, asked for an emergency session of the Assembly's Health Committee to be convened, asking for a 10-minute break to be consulted by my club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96561	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96562	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a break on the same subject, as according to last week's report by the Council of Europe, which analyses the conditions in the Zagreb psychiatric hospital for children and youth, found that doctors bind children, bind them, that children do not have access to sanitary nodes, that they do not have access to the courtyard, that they are in a closed area all the time and that the child does not even have 6 m2 prescribed by law so that the children are held as cattle in the 21st century and that the entire state of the Ombudsman informed the Government and the Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic of 2 years of age did not respond to the request of the Ombudsman. So, are these government successes that allow mentally ill children to be treated as being in the Middle Ages, as extremely inhuman, extremely cruel and cruel while we at the same time give 40 billion kn for health care, for a bottomless hole and that here in the Assembly someone comes to tell us about health successes and some debt recovery that will resupply Croatian citizens and we are not in the apartment to provide the most basic services, we are unable to respond to an ordinary e-mail for 2 years in Zagreb where the distance between the Office of the Attorney General and the Ministry of Health is measured for 15 minutes. So that's really scandalous, that's devastating, and that's why we at our club are asking that we knew how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96563	Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, given that this report covers a very wide range of phenomena, problems and conditions in society as well as government activities, I will give the Rules of Procedure a break of 10 minutes. So we move on at 10 o'clock and 37 minutes. It's 10:00.28. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.41 HOURS]] So if you're looking for a break, you won't get it now, but after the Prime Minister's exposure, you've had a chance, I've called, so this is a clean obstruction, and I won't let that happen. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96565	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to make your business possible. The last time you had a situation like this with Mr. Shucker, you let him come back later. [[President: No, I won't allow it because you had the chance and this is obstruction.]] I beg of you, we have the right to a business call for a break for 10 minutes. In the meantime, there was a very important situation, so between these 10 minutes, I didn't know it, and now I want to expose it, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96566	Comrade Maras, I won't give you a break and you'll explain it after...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96567	Why won't you give me a break? In the last 10 minutes, I've been given one piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96568	Because I am, then you will announce it to the public after the Prime Minister's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96569	But I have a business right to take a break when I ask for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96570	Appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96571	No, I don't want to complain to anyone. I want you to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96572	Please sit down, colleague Maras, it is now time to present the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96573	Could there be a break after I explain, after the president's finished?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96574	No, there will be a break, or your request will be after the Prime Minister's presentation. I've called very carefully, aimfully, if anyone else has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96575	I said in the last ten minutes, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96576	Please sit down. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96577	That's terrible, that's scandalous!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96578	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Today, I have the honour to report on the work of the government in the second year of our mandate, which, by ensuring both political and economic stability, has continued and started with changes that make our fellow citizens' lives more quality. Building a more orderly society and a stimulating economic environment today is more important than ever, in order to catch a step with the countries that entered the EU almost a decade before us by reform and dedicated work. In order to fully understand our activities, I must remind myself that we have found a divided society, political instability, high unemployment, negative demographic trends, an unsustainable pension system and a large number of blocked citizens with too much tax burden, not public finances, slow use of European funds and implementation of structural reforms. We also had a crisis of systemic proportions in Agrokor as well as a number of other inherited issues of economic transition. We are aware that some of the results are faster and that there is a need for more time somewhere but it is clear that the reforms we are doing are already giving concrete results at an economic, political and social level. Economic growth is sought through the triangle, structural changes based on the national reform programme, investment and responsible fiscal policy. In other words, we must work better, invest more, and manage the budget more wisely. With our actions, we have sought to launch strategic projects, develop a culture of political dialogue, respect for the rule of law and democratic standards to bring them to a higher level. Although we act in an atmosphere where pessimism and defetism, dedicated work, and the gradual transformation of society, we want to restore the necessary optimism to people. In this context, we seek to develop cooperation with all relevant actors, employers, trade unions, academic community, professional and not government associations, media, counties, cities and municipalities. 266 laws have been passed on the government's initiative since the start of the mandate. In the vast majority, through regular procedure and public consultation. In the past year we continued to hold meetings of the government and meetings with the mayors and representatives of associations of cities and municipalities throughout Croatia. I am particularly pleased that all 8 national minority deputies support the government and that in a partnership relationship we are working to achieve operational programmes for national minorities, protect and promote minority rights despite their increasingly loud questioning of individual actors, initiatives that seek to reduce minority rights undermine the democratic standards reached and that is what we are opposed as Government. On this trail, I will present today's report through four thematic areas: strengthening the rule of law, a more competitive economy and more balanced development, protection of family, tolerance and justice, and stronger and safer Croatia in Europe and the world. As a member of the EU, Croatia is part of a family of free European nations sharing common values among which the government is the first of the fundamentals. However, we also witness negative phenomena that indicate that there is still much work ahead of us to really strengthen our institutions. The state cannot be the right to support citizens if its institutions are not effective, responsible and all available. We must make additional efforts in the professionalisation of public services and state institutions in order to ensure a quick and effective service for all our citizens, full confidence in the state institutions and their legal behaviour. This is why the strength of Croatian institutions is our key, permanent and joint task. In the judiciary for many years, we have a continuous reduction in the number of pending cases in courts. In June 2016 there were 528 000 pending cases, and two years later the number was 424 000. So the number of pending cases has been reduced by 20% or you're down 104,000. Despite significant developments in the Croatian judiciary, however, the situation is still not satisfactory. By respecting the independence of the judiciary, we want to make the courts and the state's attorneys more effective and faster procedures, better equipment and more efficient organisation. The adoption of 6 judicial laws has enabled the reorganisation of a network of judicial authorities and better availability of courts. One of the main elements of this reorganisation was the merger of infringements with municipal courts, while at the same time the number of judicial authorities was further reduced from 116 to 108. Modernize and digitize the judiciary by spreading e-communication. In addition to the effectiveness of the judiciary, we addressed issues of transparency, accountability and independence of the judicial system through legislative amendments. This is how we introduced a transparent system of property cards that will be made publicly available from next year. We have adopted new solutions that will narrow the area for arbitration and allow for the selection of the best candidates for judicial duties. At the same time, we also prepared a proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities, so-called whistles to further protect those who report corruption and other irregularities in good faith. Such protection should always be given to journalists who play an important role because media freedom is an important component of democratic society. All of these are measures that we want to counter the existing corrupt risks and thus strengthen citizens' confidence in judicial institutions. Unfortunately, events related to the compromise of secret reconnaissances and the granting of special measures have further violated confidence in the system. I stress that the independence of the judiciary is manifested by not interfering with the work of the judicial authorities and by respecting their decisions, however, I expect, and this is also the view of the whole public, that judicial institutions are knowingly, effectively and responsibly exercising their powers in the fight against crime without political pressure, but with the full support of this government. I would like to make it clear that no one can be in Croatia and will be above the law. The bureaucratized public administration gradually, but surely goes into history. We connect or abolish more than 50 agencies with public powers, which saves or improves the system of public administration. We are building an efficient and digitized administration that is at the service of the citizens. A united IT infrastructure is established for all state electronic services. Through the system, 610 000 registered users can be associated with the doctor of general practice, report the birth of a child, obtain a unique building act, driver's license and use a total of 52 e services which saves both time and money. There's a cell phone app in preparation to bring it all together. With the law on units of local and regional self-government, we have ensured the stability of democratically elected authorities for 4 years so that local development priorities are focused. The units of local and regional self-government have missed income from income tax, which has given them financial strength and continued fiscal decentralisation. For too long, the untapped potential of state property is being put into operation today by more than 1950 decisions that have reactivated state property. We decentralized the management by transferring property management powers to the districts, cities and municipalities and putting them in the service of the economic development of local communities. We also promote the management of companies owned by the state on high corporate governance standards. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to creating a more competitive economy and more even development, I want to remind you of where we started and what macro economic indicators were not long ago. Due to major financial imbalances, the deficit of 17 billion 2014 and the public debt that reached 85% of GDP, Croatia was in the excessive budget deficit procedure by 2017, all indicators were negative and recovery was not in sight. However, the responsible management of finances, the implementation of the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme have turned this around. We are rapidly reducing the public debt whose share of GDP was due to fall to 74.5% by the end of the year, and we plan to bring it down to 65% by 2021. In 2017 we achieved a surplus of two billion and 750 million kuna in the general state, and in the first 6 months of 2018 again we have a surplus of more than one billion and 600 million kuna. GDP continues to grow at a rate of up to 3%, but on a healthy basis, which is better in the long term than a higher debt-based growth rate. Exports of goods and services are growing by 5.6% compared to the same period last year as household consumption grew at 3.6%. For many years Croatia has also been in the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, and given the results and plans we want to meet the criteria to get out of this procedure as soon as possible. We put the interest on public debt from 12 to below 10 billion kuna and we continue in that direction, and the reduction is also interest on loans to citizens and businesses. We have refinanced the unfavourable loans of road companies, saving on interest rates of 50 million euros annually. While our credit rating was reduced twice between 2012 and 2015 last year, all three leading global rating agencies improved the outlook of our credit rating. .../ The speaker doesn't understand. They have raised our credit rating by one level in stable odds, which is the first time in 15 years. Today we are one step to the investment rating, which is our goal in the next period. We have simplified the tax system, the reform we have been implementing since January 2017, and we have taxed out citizens and entrepreneurs. The tax burden we try more evenly to deploy to all taxpayers in order for the system to be more stable and fairer. The two most significant new measures that will further disburse citizens from the new year are the halving of VAT rates on fresh meat, fish, eggs, fruit, vegetables, baby diapers, and a new reduction in wage burden. These measures will disburse citizens and entrepreneurs by €2.7 billion, while the total tax disbursement in all 3 rounds of tax reform amounts to as much as €6.3 billion. We're also working on a key employment issue. In the past year alone, the number of employees increased by 71,000 and in the first quarter was one million and 616 thousand, and Croatia recorded one of the highest increases in the employment rate in the EU. With 56.8 at the beginning of the term of office, this quarter could reach 63%, and by the end of the term of office we want to realise our objective of 68% of employees. We still have 130,000 unemployed, but that number is the smallest since the '90s. A year and incomparably less than 350,000 as many as we had unemployed just 4 years ago. At the beginning of our term of office, the overall unemployment rate was 13.4%, and today it is at a record level of 7.9. We reduced the rate of youth unemployment, which was around 49% in 2013, and today it is to 22% and continues to fall. We invested 4.5 billion kuna in employment policies in the first two years of the mandate, most of which are from the European Social Fund, which stimulates the creation of new jobs. One of them is the desired project, which employs more than 7,000 women in rural areas, who care for 35,000 nursing homes. That's how we reactivate the workforce, but we also care for our older citizens. The average salary in the government's mandate increased by 710 kn. We also increased the minimum wages 2 times 5%, which is more than in the previous 9 years between 2011 and 2015, increased by only 215 kn, and in 2018 alone was effectively increased by 8.2%, i.e. by 270 kn to 3545 gross kn, as since this year overtime and work on Sundays and holidays no longer enters the minimum wage, but is paid additionally. By law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies, of systemic importance, we avoided the negative consequences of which the breakdown of Agrokora could have caused the economy of Croatia, but also of countries in the region and thus saved 60,000 jobs. The law, meanwhile, has been recognised as one of the EU's insolvent laws, as well as before courts in England, Switzerland and the United States. By stabilising the business of Agrokora, we also removed the unfair commercial bangs, which were choked by small and medium suppliers. It is a structural change for the entire Croatian economy. With a successful settlement, it has proved that the state is capable of responding to the biggest challenge of Croatian independence, which is the stabilisation of this largest Croatian company, and that we are able to manage the complex process, the current largest restructuring in Europe. It is important to point out once again that all payments made by suppliers and the total cost of restructuring the collapsed business have been settled from the business of the company itself, without spending taxpayers' money. Shipbuilding, one of Croatia's major industrial branches, faces problems accumulated during the past years in the late 1980s. Croatia's shipbuilding production was 3 in the world, today we are in 9 positions globally, i.e. the second in European terms. However, it is true that Croatia has shared about 31.7 billion kuna with the shipyards, state aid in the last 25 years and the guarantee of the government of 716 million kn in January enabled the functioning of the Oilic and 3.May practically this entire calendar year. This government is interested in the Croatian shipbuilding to survive, but, on the principles of the market economy, in accordance with Croatian and European regulations. It is therefore necessary to find a restructuring model in cooperation with shipbuilding administrations, potential strategic partners and the European Commission, which will enable sustainable business and production and preserve jobs. On this day-to-day government representatives hold talks, including today, while we are here at the Croatian Parliament. The issue of reforming the pension system is a burning issue, which has not been resolved for years, although the situation has been increasingly serious. Of the 38 billion kuna needed to pay off pensions, only 21 billion are covered by contributions. The remaining 17 billion is compensated from the state budget. The fact that 15% of the budget goes to pensions shows that the system today is not just sustainable. To make things more complicated, we have an extremely unfavourable ratio of pensioners and employees, one, to just 1.26 and our pensioners on average have only 30 years of work experience, unlike 38 in Germany. In such circumstances as pension reform, we want to allow current pensioners to work for 4 hours, and receive full pension. We propose to increase the lowest pensions by 3% and a solution to the status of 248 thousand pensioners who, if nothing is done, will have no minimum pension. We open our perspective to younger generations through the strengthening of the second pillar, we promote the third voluntary pillar and we set up a state pension insurance company so that our pensioners have bigger pensions. We promised to raise our pensions by 5% and in the first two years of our term of office we already increased them by 6.3%. By the end of the term of office, we will be working to make the pension system more sustainable and fair and continue to increase pensions. In the global conditions of the fourth industrial revolution, there are 4 words that mean a lot to Croatia: competitiveness, innovation, digitalisation and investment. Competitive entrepreneurship and innovation are the key to economic growth which, unfortunately, the administration and the lack of efficiency of the administration seem to be barriers. Since the start of the mandate, we have been actively working on dissolving the economy and creating a positive investment climate that will contribute to economic growth. Only in this year will we save the economy 625 million kuna, reducing the burden by 12% and new administrative discharge by the end of 2019 will reduce the burden on entrepreneurs by 30%. Public procurement process is more efficient and transparent. Not only is the lowest bid chosen but the most economically profitable one. And we're introducing an electronic public procurement account that will speed up business processes. Better regulations and assessment of the impact of regulations on small and medium-sized enterprises have made it easier to operate, introduce greater flexibility and transparency, cheaper procedures, increase legal certainty and ensure more quality competition. We are uniting inspection services into a state inspectorate to ensure better coordination and to reduce the number of inspections. We will establish a full procurement procedure without paper, which will save up to 6 to 13% of the total amount of public procurement, or from more than 2.6 billion kuna. Our goal is to save time through the Digital Tansformation Strategy and the introduction of different e-services to entrepreneurs and facilitate their business. We will also improve craftsmanship by amending and supplementing the Law on crafts and improving the system of education on the principle of dual education. Investments play an important role in the development of the country, in 2017 we attracted 1.84 billion euros in investment, not yet in 2009, but in 2018 it will be recordable with as much as 2 billion euros in foreign investment as never reached the annual amount. These include a number of investments in tourism, information communication technologies, production and transport infrastructure. Easier applications over the last 2 years, we have granted almost 1800 support to an economy worth 2.7 billion kuna that should open or preserve more than 8,000 jobs. For our government, even regional development of all areas of the homeland is extremely important. We cannot be satisfied that the average income per capita of a Slavonec 2x is less than one Zagrebian. Therefore, strong support for less developed areas is one of the priorities of the government. We increased the expenditure on regional development in the current and last year to 700 million kuna, which is 3x more than in 2012/23015. We have established a clear legal framework to promote even development, and in the regional development strategy we are preparing a comprehensive national development strategy by the end of the programming period by 2030. We set up a framework for faster development of assisted areas, mountain-mounted areas, islands, the city of Vukovar as well as housing in assisted areas. We are making EU funds easier and better. After the first three years of EU membership in late 2016, we found only 9% of the agreed funds of 10.7 billion euros available to us. That information speaks for itself. With dedicated work in the last two years, we've raised that number to 54% today and by the end of the year we should reach 60%. Only for employment, social inclusion, education and public administration reform have we announced competitions from the European Social Fund in the amount of as much as 9 billion kuna. We have launched and are making concrete efforts under the Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem through which 18.8 billion kunas from European funds are being invested in projects in 5 Slavonian counties and we are establishing priorities for the development of eastern Croatia. Demographic challenges and weaker economic growth in Slavonia are trying to make up for the 7.8 billion kuna agreed so far, i.e. 42% of the estimated amount and the 5 County Development Agreement for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was signed. We believe that the project will be a successful model for investment in other parts of Croatia. We connect Croatia and build transport infrastructure. From the EU alone, we have agreed 14 billion kunas of infrastructure investment. With a decision to build a Pelje Bridge with 85% co-financing from EU funds, we will end traffic jams and after 300 years of territorial separation we will connect the south of Croatia. In addition to financial, we continue with operational restructuring in road companies. As a Mediterranean maritime state, we are strategically developing the maritime sector, maritime well-being and ports. For the first time, we have created conditions for European financing of projects for the development of port infrastructure. After the shift in the road and maritime sectors, it is time to modernise the rail infrastructure that is in poor condition and make railways competitive for the transport of passengers and goods. That's why we started a big investment cycle of over 3 billion euros by 2030. Without new investment, there is no development of railways as the most economically and environmentally favourable land transport. After steaming machine, electricity and electronics are under way, the fourth industrial revolution is based on digitization, Internet stuff, artificial intelligence, nano, bio and neuro technologies. The world we enter in just a few years will be completely different from the present. Croatia must also prepare for this by integration into the EU's digital market and at national level. By means of a national broadband plan, we program the construction of infrastructure for more uniform introduction of new technologies and availability of fast internet across Croatia. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Ericsson Research Centre Nikola Tesla is open in Osijek, which thus becomes one of the European IT centres. With growing energy needs, the issue of energy security is now taking on a growing geopolitical dimension. In order to ensure the security of supply and energy independence of Croatia over the last 2 years, we are working intensively to prepare the project LNG terminal on the island of Krk, while respecting the highest ecological standards. The special law we have passed will help to complete the project successfully, we are rebuilding more than 600 public buildings throughout Croatia, and from next year we are subsidising reconstruction and private houses to boost energy efficiency and the construction sector. In the next two years, we'll use 5 billion kuna for that. The development of Croatian villages and agriculture as an important component of economic development is one of the government's top priorities. In order to raise the competitiveness of Croatian farmers and fishermen and to improve the development of our rural areas last year, more than 4 and a half billion kuna of support has been paid, and this year, in the framework of the rural development programme, 9.4 billion have already been agreed. We have simplified and shortened the procedures in achieving support for key legislation on agricultural land, on the family holding and banning unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, reforming the agricultural sector. As promised, marine fisheries and aquaculture have gained the status of strategic economic activities. We have facilitated the financing of the agricultural, processing and forestry sectors with a billion kuna loans and guarantees. We remain focused on family farms which we want to ensure that money from European funds is more available. With an average of over 390kg of waste per capita, it is crucial to establish a modern waste management system that creates resources from waste. This will protect our environment, but also make great savings. We are therefore working on the development of a circular economy, on increasing energy security and efficiency, as well as on the efficiency of water utility economies. This also contributes to the global fight against climate change that we all need to be involved in. A special law has been passed that enables us to manage water integratedly and to preserve our national water resources better. With a capital protection project against the project of the Karlovo-Sikas end with 92km of new embankments and reconstructions of 42km of existing ones, we will reduce the risks of floods. Tourism is an important economic branch that makes up a fifth of Croatia's GDP. After a record 2017 we will experience an even better 2018. We already have 6% more arrivals and 4% more overnight stays. Compared to this period last year and a month earlier, we reached 100 million overnights. By the end of the year, we expect 19 and a half million arrivals, 106 million overnight stays and incomes above 12 billion euros. By the end of the year, we will invest almost a billion euros in tourism, which is 15% more than in 2017 and almost 40% more than in 2016. We strengthen Croatia's position as an aircraft destination leading to the opening of 70 new aircraft lines, making it more accessible to tourists from more distant countries. In today's fast changing world, education and science, public goods are particularly important for achieving personal, economic and social development. A necessary and long-awaited reform of education has begun to take place. We have provided legal framework and resources, and we intend to bring curricula documents based on the social consensus that will enable students to acquire new knowledge, skills and competences. Couriculums must simultaneously strengthen the identity of our children and our young people through the Croatian language of our values, our culture and history and prepare them for the needs of an increasingly dynamic and demanding labour market. We professionally analyse and value all the changes that we introduce into the system, digitize and technical equipment schools, and we have introduced IT into the 5th and 6th classes of OS as a mandatory subject, we have improved vocational education and have provided a billion kuna for vocational schools. 25 vocational schools were raised to the level of the regional centre of competence, meaning new equipment in vocational schools, entering the world of work students and teaching teachers. By the end of 2020, about 67,000 students will receive scholarships totalling half a billion kuna due to an unfavourable socio-economic position or for studies in the field. In order to improve Croatian science, 13 scientific centres of excellence have been established to allocate more than 370 million kuna. We created the necessary preconditions for the employment of 350 young scientists and thus for their stay in Croatia. We have secured a billion kunas for scientific equipment and infrastructure, which is the largest equipment of Croatian science in the last 15 years, and we have pulled as much as 2.8 billion kuna from the European funds. In the area of culture, the care of our cultural identity, the protection of heritage, the support of creativity in creative industries, the promotion of Croatian art culture in the country and the world and international cooperation are our permanent tasks. To this end, we have increased the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which is now almost 1% of the state budget, which has also contributed to better funding from the EU funds. We have adopted 3 whole laws: The Law on Audiovisual Activities to encourage investment in film production and export of film services including video games, a growing market with a package of the Law on Museums and Archives and Archive materials, we adapt to digital time and digitise archival construction and cultural heritage. Respected MPs and MPs, at the centre of the government's policy, there is the creation of a more solid and fairer society, and in particular the strengthening of the family as its fundamental units. Extremely negative demographic trends and aging are the problem throughout Europe and so is Croatia. In a continuing negative trend since World War II, the number of births fell from 95 to about 37,000 a year. While the death toll remained at 50 thousand, 37:50. In addition, we are a country with traditionally large eviction which further worsens the situation especially since the freedom of movement of Croatian citizens can be employed across EU member states. No more quotas, no more work permits, the only country that can protect its labour market for another two years from the arrival of Croatian citizens is Austria. All the others have completely liberalised their labour market and that is why this wave of emigration has been happening for the last few years. Realising that demographic restoration is crucial for Croatia's future, we have established within the current ministry and part that is extremely important for Croatia's future, which is demographics as well as a council for demographic revitalisation. We increased support for the birth of a child by 50% from 2663 to 3991 kuna for another 6 months and cash benefits for unemployed parents from 1663 to 2328 kuna per month. We have extended the circle of children's extras to 92 thousand parents and 150 thousand children, as well as the most intelligent 500 kuna supplement for 3rd and 4th child, which is an extension of 50% compared to the previous number of users and the first increase after decades. We build or restore over 300 kindergartens, and enable the two-way work of kindergartens in ever-increasing conditions. In order to strengthen young people and their families, we continue to subsidise housing loans and build apartments under the programme of socially encouraged housing throughout Croatia. Only last year, 2320 young families came to their home more favourably through a subsidisation measure, and we are especially pleased that 250 children were born in these families. Over 3,000 received requests this year show exceptional interest and impact of this measure. In cooperation with public and private sector partners, we plan to introduce a family card that will allow families with more children to benefit from progressive discounts according to the number of children on various services offered by partners. Our goal is also to strengthen return measures and action plans to facilitate Croatian emigrants' return or eviction to Croatia. However, we must bear in mind that demographic issues are one of the most complex and that there is no immediate solution in this area, but they move only in the medium and long term. This is a general social issue that requires joint engagement and only through general mobilization and awareness will we be able to reverse negative demographic trends. In this regard, particularly important are the young holders of the new development cycle in Croatia and the most dynamic part of society, we are aware of their problems and the uncertainty of the employment they are often offered. We finance youth projects with 6.3 million kuna to improve the dialogue on public policies for young people, and we also formed the Government's Youth Council. We want to create for young people conditions for a better life so they can stay here and build their future. In order to protect women's victims from violence and domestic violence, we ratified the Council of Europe Convention to combat domestic violence, respecting the Croatian constitutional order. And despite that campaign that we have witnessed, I would like to say that our interpretative statement, which is part of the Confirmation Act, has been accepted here in the Croatian Parliament among the legal experts of the Council of Europe, has not only been welcomed and accepted without even the slightest reservation but is considered as a model for other Member States to facilitate the ratification process of this Convention and that things return to its essence, which is preventing violence against women and domestic violence. Preventing family, peer and any other form of violence is a civilization issue. The government is determined to do everything in its power to combat the appropriate protection of victims as well as to punish the most severe perpetrator. Ensuring equally accessible and quality health services is one of the priorities of the Government programme as well as a particular challenge in the system that requires modernisation. To this end we are conducting a functional integration of 12 hospitals that will unite their work: Vinkovci, Vukovar, Ogulin, Karlovac, S. Brod, N. Gradiška, Osijek, Nasice, Sibenik, Knin, Požega, Pakrac. We are promoting the emergency care system through the functional integration of the county emergency medical services and the united emergency hospital reception. Over the priority waiting lists we have entered for diseases that need to be processed and treated as soon as possible during 2018, more than 14,000 patients have been ordered. And in health care, we make better use of European funds. So far, more than 3 billion kuna of health infrastructure projects, emergency health care and better hospital care have been agreed. The financial sustainability of the system contributes and a united public procurement process that we are carrying out. We supported the construction of a new KBC hospital in Rijeka, the construction of a general hospital in Pula, and we plan to build a National Children's Hospital. Doctors and other healthcare professionals are the foundation of a health system that requires support from the state. We finance more than 200 specialists in primary health care, a national cancer plan is being prepared, since cancer is the second cause of mortality in Croatia, we also develop anti-drug programmes. An important health prevention and anti-addiction factor is sport. Over the past year, we have increased the allocations for sport by 23%, and we have doubled the awards for top sports performances in the competitions. In addition to the joke of champions at the world football championship in Russia, Croatian athletes showed talent, tenacity and success on various world and European reviews, I congratulate them again. The first strategic document in the field of sports will improve its funding. We take care of the most vulnerable groups because caring for the most important tasks of every solidarity society, and over half a million of our citizens live with a certain type of disability. In the next 2 years, 15 000 people with disabilities will have personal assistance services thanks to the funds provided through the European Social Fund. After 20 years, personal disability and care allowance were increased by 20%. Thank you, sweethearts. Representatives and MPs, one of the problems we have encountered is a large number of blocked citizens. The number of 325 000 citizens in the blockade over 43 billion kunas of debt alone spoke of the acuteity of the long-standing social problem blocked to which we have approached responsibly. The principle of solidarity we have adopted a package of laws to address the issues blocked in order to give the most vulnerable citizens a hand of salvation and to allow a new start. We first spent a one-time write-off and thus unblocked 6248 citizens completely. Such treatment has also been decided by certain local units of the private company that we welcome, and we hope to set an example for others. Then we made it possible to suspend the verification of the performance that proved to be non-refundable. With these measures, with these two laws, the number of 325 000 blocked has been reduced to 274,000, and the amount of the blockade has been reduced from more than 43 billion kuna to less than 19 billion kuna. We also expect a significant contribution from a simpler consumer bankruptcy process that should include around 80,000 citizens. Cost reduction, additional protection of the perpetrators, introduction of electronic communication, more effective implementation of the procedure are the main objectives of the new executive law, including excluding the possibility of operations in the winter period, we additionally raise the amount of real estate from 20 to 40 000 kuna and we extend the cycle of receipts excluded from the performance. We are creating a more modern collection system that will ensure cheaper, faster and more effective settlement of the credentials with an increased level of protection of the perpetrators. The issue of the Homeland War and the issue of Croatian defenders is very important for the entire Croatian society, but also for our government. We therefore pay special attention to Croatian defenders who have made an immeasurable contribution for Croatian freedom, and have often been underrespected in the past years. That's why we strengthened our relationship with the Homeland War. With the protection of the dignity of the Homeland War, whose operations we honor with dignity, we show our respect for the role of Croatian defenders in defending the country, achieving its independence and liberation. In two years we increased the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry by 50% and passed a new single law on Croatian defenders and members of their families, as promised. We also care about lighting up the fate of the missing and punishing the perpetrators of war crimes during the Homeland War that don't get old. At the beginning of the year, a special group was established at the government's initiative under the Police Directorate's task of intensifying activities on the painful issue, especially in connection with crimes committed in Vukovar and Ovcara. We have also launched the first expert and reasoned debate on dealing with the past. Through it we want to build a memory culture that respects victims, condemn totalitarian regimes and individualizes guilt. Investment in education on these topics will prevent revisionism, denial, relativisation and demeaning of victims of the 20th century non-democratic systems. Dear MPs and MPs, allow a few words about Croatia's role in Europe and the world. Transnational challenges, increased number and type of security threats today require country-wide adaptation and preventive action. Although, like many, we are faced with a variety of criminalities, Croatia is a globally secure country, and the overall crime in decline is by 5.2%, we are still investing in prevention and security for the daily fight of all criminal acts, especially in countering organised, economic and cybercrime. Entry into the Schengen area, the strategic goal of Croatia that will raise the level of protection of our borders. We want to meet all technical criteria by the end of the year to be ready to enter Schengen by 2020. The issue of migration is one of the main challenges facing Europe today. Croatia has the longest, out of the Schengen border of the EU and already has about 6 and a half thousand border police officers, almost as much as all Southeast European countries combined that protect Croatia's border from illegal migration. As we are on the only land-based migrant route, we must be prepared to protect our borders even more effectively. So we will continue to invest in improving labour standards and the lives of police officers, which, after many years of neglect, has been initiated by this government. We are building an OS on the tradition of a successful and victorious Croatian army on its wings to win the Homeland War, an increased defence budget that improves the ability of the Croatian military and raises the country's international credibility. After 15 years, the National Security Strategy and the National Security System Act have been adopted, we are developing an effective Homeland Security System for coordinated action by different actors in all the challenges of police, military, bodies and civil protection systems, security-intelligence systems, fire, diplomacy, economy and local communities. We returned the Croatian army to Sinj, Vukovar, Ploče, at the end of the year in Varazdin, through 2019 and 2020 in Pula, which increased the rate of reaction. We have also made a historic decision on the acquisition of a multi-purpose fighter F-16 from Israel, thus raising the readiness of the Croatian Air Force and ensuring the ability to control and protect the national airspace. We are constantly improving living standards, working conditions and education of members of the Croatian army to which we are returning the rights we have taken away. Three months ago. We marked the 5th anniversary of Croatia's EU membership. In the European Parliament and in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as I chair the Committee of Ministers as well as the Central European Initiative, I had the opportunity to present the Croatian vision of Europe, and then I pointed out that we wanted to be part of a circle of closer integrated members. We are working intensively to prepare for our EU presidency in the first half of 2020, preparing with Romania and Finland with which we form a trio. And this is our opportunity to contribute to the further development of the European project. Our Presidency priorities will be focused on growth, development, employment, energy and transport links, security and enlargement policy. We advocate the enlargement of the Union to JI Europe because we believe that European integration can only strengthen peace, stability and prosperity in this part of the world. 20 years after the Zagreb summit, it was in November 2000, Croatia wants to repeat such a meeting between EU and SEE leaders during the EU Council's Presidency in spring 2020. In the spring, Croatia will host a very important meeting at the top of China +16. A part of the Chinese policy of one belt one time will be attended by the Chinese prime minister and the leaders of 16 Central European countries and we expect more than 2,000 participants. After a recent meeting with Chancellor Merkel in Berlin, next week I will be in Paris with President France Macron, and this is the occasion that in such short time with the two most influential European states, we will jointly consider the direction and the breaking moments that will take place for the EU in the next year. Also, I will visit China in early November to prepare and strengthen our co-operation together before the summit next year. Dear MPs and MPs, I also want to look back today on BiH with which we have very strong and close ties, in which Croats as an equal and constitutive people of BiH play a special role. We see that in Sunday's elections, it has been derailed for the third time by the very meaning of the Dayton Agreement, which is the fundamental principle of equality between the constituent peoples and which was also a prerequisite for BiH's international recognition, has been violated. As a guarantee and a signator of the Danton-Paris Treaty, Croatia is obliged to protect its spirit and its objectives. The results show that the orchestrated action played the real political will of the Croatian people in BiH, which they elected on Sunday by Bosniaks to the territory of the Federation as a single electoral unit, Zeljko Komsic, for the third time for the nominal representative in the presidency. Despite the plebiscite support for Dragan Covic. What happened was bad for the stability and future of all BiH because it unnecessarily antagonises Croats and Bosniaks. In 1992, Croats voted in favour of BiH's independence, defending it against Milosevic's aggression in a referendum. Today, it is those who draw the most towards the EU, with strong support from the consensus of all political actors in the Republic of Croatia, and in turn send a message in return that their legitimate representatives are not welcome in the largest institution in power. The situation is a key challenge for the Croats in BiH as well as for Croatia to point out the necessity of correcting such abuses to political actors in BiH as well as to the entire international community. When it comes to Slovenia, we continued the dialogue on resolving the border issue. We have offered a solution that is in the mutual interest and we remain ready in good neighbourly spirit with the new Slovenian government to resolve the issue bilaterally. Relations with Serbia are burdened not only with open issues from the time of isolation and aggression against the Republic of Croatia, such as the issues of missing, cultural goods, the regional jurisdiction of the Serbian law, but also with rhetoric that Croatia rarely distills in the international community, which we firmly answer in all international forums. Despite the war being imposed, Croatia has won and today is a member of the EU and NATO, it is important that Serbia and its leadership take this into account and adopt European values as soon as possible. We take care of Croats outside Croatia, who want to connect with the country, but also provide them with protection in other countries, where they are minority, based on the principle of reciprocity and respect for signed contracts. Dear MPs and MPs, after half the term of office of this government, I believe it is necessary to awaken optimism, confidence and trust in society. And to unite people around common values, to give pain to common success, protect national interests and strengthen our position in Europe and the world. In the end, I want to point out a few priorities in the time ahead. First, we will continue to strengthen the rule of law and strengthen the independence and efficiency of judicial institutions. We will not hesitate to combat abuse and strengthen efficiency. This is why we continue to digitise public services more rapidly, and the second we will step up the measures of demographic revitalisation. The state must support every family to decide on the number of children they really want. We will subsidise the settlement of the housing issue, provide appropriate monetary and logistics support to parents, introduce, as I highlighted the family card and devise additional measures to attract Croats living outside Croatia in the country. On the economic side, we will further reduce the administrative and tax burden, the economy and the citizens, which will lead to the creation of new jobs and investments. Entrepreneurs, and especially exporters, are the drivers of Croatia and therefore we will facilitate their business, so that they can raise salaries to workers and employees more easily. By the end of the term of office, we will be responsible for leading public finances, reducing public debt and reaching investment ratings, which was unimaginable about 2 years ago, and we will make better use of EU membership, work on entering the Schengen area and implementing the euro introduction strategy as an official currency in co-operation with the CNB. We will address the improved absorption of European funds and prepare the Presidency of the EU Council, based on the National Reform Programme, to implement a series of sectoral reforms. First of all, the reform of the three largest state systems, for which our citizens are most interested, because of their scale and importance. Peacekeeping, health and education. We will complete strategic infrastructure implementations, such as LNG terminals on Krk and Pelješki bridge, and we will prepare a great modernisation of Croatian railways. Due to the importance of Croatia's connection and value to co-finance 2.7 billion kn, when built for 3 years, the Pelješki bridge will be the most tangible symbol of Croatian membership in the EU. Each of the measures on which we work daily should improve certain aspects of the lives of our citizens, but as a whole, indeed, should change Croatia and bring the vision of a successful and modern state, which adapts very quickly by changing global circumstances. And in the past experience, we know that this job has been very demanding, but it has been more demanding and even more difficult to fight for independence, for international recognition, to defeat the superior aggressor in the Homeland War, to free and restore the country, to meet the criteria for EU and NATO membership, it has been even more demanding. That's why we won't save effort or energy. And I am convinced that we can succeed, so I invite both representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but also the entire Croatian public to join us in changing Croatia for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96579	I thank the Prime Minister. We've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96580	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you've injured an officer. 3. paragraph 5, which is taking a right to pause on the subject of clubs. I believe that this injury is essentially privileged by the government over the Parliament and the clubs. Because at this point, clubs have something to say. 'Cause it looks like we're living on a scale, living like Lisa in a wonderland. Well, we're at the bottom of the EU. Just at the beginning of GDP, we're at the beginning of all the issues, the farmers are leaving us, there's no No village, no peasants. [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, you're not.]] So you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't allow the club to prefer nonstop, from year to year from session to session in government over this parliament The citizens won't tolerate it. [[Intruder President: You can finish now.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96581	So, I'm not even gonna give you a heads-up on how valuable your intervention is right now, so here you are, colleague Maras, you've been looking for a break. I approved Stanko as well as you well know about the Bridge Club and the Live Wall Representatives Club, then it was 10 minutes, before I asked if anyone else wanted it. We can't have a break at the break, but the break comes after the show. Now he's finished the Prime Minister's break and I'm giving him a chance now, Mr. Comrade Maras, that's right, here you go. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96582	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure in the lead, you've insulted your fellow Bulls, you can't honor MPs with these remarks, you said you won't give a man a warning, because he's not even worth warning about. Do you realize how humiliating it is for MPs and I ask you not to do it anymore? [[President: No, I didn't, but his intervention.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96583	Do you want a break? Then you have two minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96584	Thank you very much, Mr. President, it seems that Prime Minister Plenkovic and I do not live in the same country, he lives together with Alice in a wonderland and it would be good to wake up as soon as possible. I unfortunately live in a country where 75% of citizens are not satisfied with this situation where the prime minister boasts in front of foreigners that Croats have, his citizens have low wages, where he tells his citizens that they are doing well in Croatia because it is worse in Africa. Where we deny hundreds and hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who leave every day from Croatia. Where unfortunately, the government rehabilitates war criminals by including them in the protocols of its events. Where the state is paralyzed by the conflict within the HDZ and by the abuse of institutions in the conflict that is pervading to the highest peaks of government. Where corruption too, Mr. Prime Minister, also goes to the highest peaks of government what we see both these years and these days, where the situation around the Borg shows that there was a conscious intention to rob the money from Agrokor and where some have become rich by hundreds of millions of kunas. Unfortunately, it's all a fact. Corruption, uncertainty, instability, internal conflicts, everything that burdens our country, the prime minister here ignores and acts like Alice in Wonderland. I invite him to wake up as soon as possible and to see that Croatian citizens do not see their country in this way. She needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96585	Comrade Maras, in this intervention you didn't say what you were looking for before, just to remind my fellow MPs and MPs, you said you had some new information, so now you've made a political speech. I approve of you, of course, a 10-minute break because it's a business provision, so just, the facts work. Here you go, colleague Beljak, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96586	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I think that the injured Rules of Procedure, Article 238, and I think that you should give our colleagues Bulju and Maras a heads-up because they're turning off the topic, the subject is the Report of the Prime Minister and all the good and good things we've heard now they're trying to cloud the subject. I think we should clap and no one is, not even you from the HDZ have clapped our prime minister knows everything he said and I think you should give them a warning first and then invite all of us to clap on Mr. Plenkovic for what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96587	There. Here we go for a ten-minute break, up to 11, 55.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96588	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the break has expired, here, 11.55 minutes have passed, so I will ask on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96589	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am very sorry that with us here we are not the Prime Minister and his members of the government, so that we can hear what they need to hear, but it doesn't matter, which is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96590	My colleagues and colleagues, please question your colleague Petrov, colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats and let us not say that colleague Petrov can normally say what he wants. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96591	The debate on the government's work report is a good opportunity for every gentleman to look back on the situation in Croatia and society, to see what the government has promised, what it has done, which it has not possibly fulfilled, to determine how far Croatia has come, which is waiting for us, which we could do better. However, in order to do so properly, it is necessary to speak honestly, honestly to both the public and the people, if we really want to do something, we should speak to them telling the truth, even though it is not beautiful at times. I think that's what we're supposed to do. That's why it's important, all of what we've had a chance to hear from the Prime Minister for the last hour about the government's work, put it in an appropriate context. This context is not the context of Africa, it should be the context of Europe and the Western world, because it is the area in which we exist, where we live in which we should compete with these countries. Today we have had the opportunity to hear, a nice pre-election speech, or a speech at the beginning of the term of office, I think it is forgotten that this government has already spent 2 years or half of its term of office. So let's really see how things are. The general government's surplus, GDP growth and public debt cuts are information that the government's president and finance minister like to boast. And it's actually like this. GDP growth in 2017 is 2.8% of foreign investment says it will be lower. He's not even enough to cover the cost of interest on loans taken by the state, that's the famous success. It's the same thing as opening a trade, raising a job credit and that growth in income, which you have every year when you solve a cold drive, pay and other expenses, is not enough for you to cover even the interest on that loan you've raised. And the bill is very simple, you have 366 billion kn, GDP in 2017 with an annual growth rate of 2.8%, you reach 10.2 billion kuna, and Croatia needs to pay 12 billion kunas of interest on its own credit commitments this year, which means you lack 1.8 billion kuna for that alone. And while we camp at 2.8 or 2.6% of GDP at the annual level, Poland grew 5.1, Hungary 4.8, Serbia 4.8, Montenegro 4.5, Slovenia 3.8, Bulgaria 3.4, etc. What reduces public debt is information that we need to compare with the transition country. Because Croatia's public debt is 78% of GDP. What should we tell me about one Estonia whose public debt is 9%? Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, Poland, Slovakia, Serbia 61.5% of public debt, all better than Croatia. What do we have to be proud of? But now it's going absurd. As soon as there's any growth in the state and no matter what it's miserable and insufficient, regardless of the huge public debt, the cost of the state rises. Even more absurd than that, it is then spent more on behalf of this GDP growth that is spent more than GDP itself. Because this year, the cost of the state rises 4%, and GDP as we all know below 3%. So, only these Mr. Foreign and European Affairs Ministry costs rise by 20% State Property Ministry by 14.9%, Ministry of Defence for 10.6. The Ministry of Culture for 10.6. The Ministry of Construction by 9.3%, etc. You come to the conclusion that it is best for Croatian politicians not to mention the word surplus. Because when the word surplus is mentioned, no matter what it's miserable, there's an unsatisfactory hunger for public money going on right away. And of course the problems don't stop. According to the Ministry of Finance, Croatia continues to pay the interest rate on a 10-year public debt of about 2.3% of Slovenia, as far as I know, has less than 1% and it is not just the euro, because the impact on lower financing costs on average is less than 1% of the points. The reason remains Croatia's high fiscal vulnerability due to excessive public debt and lack of policy credibility in terms of creditor confidence in politicians who represent us. To this all we need to add our share of GDP, or the 20% share of tourism in GDP, so let's try to imagine what it would be like to be gone? And yet I don't know what's worse than that, to build long-term growth on tourism which is one of the most unstable economic branches, interesting. Finally, forecasts are coming, the European Commission, the World Bank, predicting even this miserable growth of GDP by 2022. Which means Croatia will lag behind more and more every year. And the difference between Croatia's economic growth and other EU countries will keep on increasing. This means that after Romania that has passed us, Bulgaria is threatening us, and Croatia will be the most undeveloped economic state of the EU. Non-implementation of real economic reforms, insistence on the old and proven wrong model of growth will lead to further decline of the Croatian economy, continuation of the eviction of entire families. They will go to the most educated because they will have better salaries outside than they have in Croatia, by leaving the highly educated workforce, the economy loses the potential to participate in the economic and scientific flows of the 21st century, which means that eventually Croatia will be a poor country, a state of cheap labour, just what our Prime Minister, a state that does not have a modern high-value industry, but an old industry of low-value added value and low wages. Then it won't matter what the unemployment rate is because those who are employed will work for change. Will the government continue to live on the laurels of this kind of miserable growth of GDP and surpluses while you sit down with the Uljanik, you have HAC, you have Petrochemia, you have Croatia Airlines, you have Borovo, you have a problem with the problem. And on top of that, are we going to welcome again the unprepared new global recession that is becoming more and more announced by the end of next year? Interestingly, nothing is done about it, put your finger in your ears, cover your eyes and that's it. That's what your policy looks like. And now remember the three main figures that the Prime Minister and finance minister like to boast, the reduction of public spirit, the surplus of the state, GDP growth and nothing more. Now after this you know why nothing below is mentioned because everything below is a problem. Everything below is fog. Speaking of the financial sector, the finance minister mentions a major tax reform that ended with an alleged salary growth of 40 kn, I say to the alleged why first employers need to lower down to the worker, employers said it was interesting to say that it cost them an annex contract to do more than it would increase their salaries of 40 kn. But I think people should look forward to it. They should be looking forward to it. Maybe they could've been taken from them 40 kn. On the side of sarcasm, but 40 to 60 kuna, dear Prime Minister, surely it is not something that will stop people from leaving Croatia, it can humiliate them more, it can be seen as humiliation. And there is certainly no desire for tax redistribution of work to this government, if there were, then you would charge the media salary, you would charge those income classes that are the highest number of taxpayers, you would charge those workers who have the most in Croatia. In a country so prone to personal consumption, to charge the VAT budget, such a move would make sense. According to EUROSTAT 2016, the share of VAT in GDP was 14%, in Ireland 5%. And that Ireland is growing in the second quarter of the incredible 9%. Croatia is on, I'll remind 2.8. Finally, we are no longer surprised by this kind of move in the tax system when we know that the Croatian tax system is one of the most complex, 12th place we take in the world when it comes to its complexity and tax press and as far as economic freedoms are concerned, in an excellent 92nd place. And I just don't know how, in this environment, employers can create jobs when they have a cosmetic approach and literally "I give you a little bit, I take you" are eventually presented as a tax reform. I had to spend more energy explaining to people that foreign investors had contacted to check what was going on about tax reform, more should I have invested more energy to explain to them that nothing was actually happening than those who wrote that tax reform because it's not clear to people outside how the government can announce something that isn't there, the great government. I'll point out three more things for the economy. Export coverage 59.2%, is that acceptable? Investments. For investment, I can tell you that we came back in the 1980s because your foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency is bigger than your foreign investment. So those who went outside, those who pay their relatives, those who earned their pensions outside, they give us more money outside than there are foreign investments, it happened in the 1980s. I do not know if it makes any sense to speak because it is among the lowest in the EU. We are even worse than Bulgaria and Romania and Poland and Hungary. Even in economically broken Greece is bigger than in Croatia. Croatia is therefore at the very bottom at the rate of the economic active population, so a logical question is raised, what is the government of the Republic of Croatia doing on this issue? There is no shift in the economy thus neither tax discharge nor higher salaries nor higher pensions without reducing the cost of the state of solving the bulk sectors which have become their own purpose as public administration. We are all aware of the full stations of those who are leaving measures are being taken in hundreds of thousands and the government is increasing the number of employees in the public sector. This government means by logic it needs more people in the public sector who will serve them less those in the state today. Explain that logic to me. For the field of public administration, we received clean and clear “no progress” from the European Commission this spring except in the total wage mass of 5.4% in 2018. One and a half billion kuna in 2018 is spent more on public sector wages than before. That's when you mention politicians' surpluses. People are leaving, Croatia is dying and the public sector is booming. And here it is very important to mention the following, in the national reform plan, neither part of it has been mentioned as the objective of any of these reform measures of depoliticalisation of public administration, optimization of the number of employees. Minister Kuščević says that in an interview, optimization of employees' work will be based on natural effusion. I'd understand the natural outflow if the new ones weren't hired. But I don't understand what kind of natural drain it is when you spend one and a half billion kuna more on salaries and thousands of new employees compared to what it really should look like. But I guess he knows. Minister Kuščević says the system of legal persons with the public authority of the agency type is soon being rationalised. Which means the agencies should shut down or connect. Most was left in drawers almost a legal solution, a year and a half passed, by experts specialising in the field of public administration, we left decisions in the merger, for example. Energy Investment Centre. We now see that this is announced in December 2018, the question of whether it will be then. I really don't see what the problem is. It is mentioned that you want to work, that you know how you will work, you have finished solutions and you do not work. That's why I said that at the beginning of this speech you gave an election speech, not a speech of what you did. I'm not talking about the e-business project that's waiting for you. For example, the bridge is yours. In April 2017, he left the application of e-mattica, so that public legal authorities in the procedures they perform can access the queens, birth certificate, housewives, the married list, without having to ask the same of the parties, of the clients. It was the way things work out. But it looks like these other things you need to do are simply not solved: e-business, e-inspection, e-taxes, e-book, e-signature, all waiting. I don't know if he's waiting for Godo. But what's interesting is where logic and rationality don't rule is driven by paranormal phenomena. The paranormal phenomenon for you is that the government's regulation says that from now on, all employees of civil servants if the head of the ministry appoints them on the project can get an increase of up to 30%. Which means it's enough to work 10% on the project and get 30% higher pay. Great. And then by ruling miracles when nothing is done to make a referendum happen. In addition to being offended because citizens don't need to think about them, they just need to round them every four years, citizens have imagined they dared to touch them. They asked for an amendment to the election law. And now look at the wonders, the same minister who objected to volunteers why it takes them 15 days to count the signatures for months and there are thousands of employees on the state's mantles. He even hired a state agency, or state co-ownership to do so, and they haven't even counted the signatures yet. But at this time you can see clearly through the lines of the interview, none of the referendums. All of you who signed the referendum, for a fairer electoral system, know that you have no referendum. They won't let you do that. They'll find different ways like what they said the dead were coming out, I guess that's how they did it, 'cause I don't know how else they'd think of it. Either way, they won't allow you to make a referendum. If a referendum took place and changed the Electoral Law, it would be difficult to repeat that unprecedented political disgrace and trade in half of 2017 right here in the Parliament. For them, you're not here to think, you're about to round up every four years, which is what they tell you. Expecting to move in the state sectors without resolving the health sector is impossible and yet nothing is done about it and as far as the government is concerned, the government has gone on the issue. Minister Kujundzic has missed a stronger initiative for the past two years. We cited 52 reasons for missing opportunities, all we got from the minister was that he wanted to look us in the eye. Well, they're gonna watch us tomorrow, they're gonna have a chance, I just don't know what the views are gonna solve, we've all missed two years. A theater of absurds, a pension system, I don't even have time to explain. The thunderous announced tax reform ended up as a reform of a judicial system that was eventually said to be a mini reform, so that at the end of the reform only the coming years will come. Interesting and we left it in the drawers. Why hasn't it changed? Why would they change the system that was designed for them? The system where they appointed absolutely everything. And with regard to safeguarding national interest and sovereignty, Croatia has never been in a worse situation. Foreign policy has never been more decapitated, we are in bad relations with all neighbours and what is happening in BiH cannot be justified by Prime Minister only by someone's electoral engineering. He can't because about Mr. Komsic I was clear, this man can be elected by their electoral law to the presidency of their country and by what they have chosen that's their thing. But this man cannot be the original Croatian representative in the presidency. But what I'm about to say is, he's not just the result of election engineering. If there's anything he wants to do, it's enough that someone else doesn't do anything. And this is the result of Croatia's foreign policy for the past 20 years towards BiH. IGP, an exclusive economic belt and I won't even mention it to you in those segments as an excellent diplomat you've scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96592	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the IDS, PGS and RI in the name of which the respected representative Boris Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96593	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me begin this presentation with words that are just the club of IDS and PGS representatives assessing the government's work on the annual work report for 2017. The government lacks a clear vision, clear development strategy and determination. The determination to clearly identify a number of problems with open issues and challenges. It has been a year, and according to the old Croatian custom, things have remained the same and today our score is unfortunately more current than ever. It should be fair to say that some problems have been inherited from before. But that can't be an excuse for the inconclusiveness, the idealessness and the complete lack of strategy. There are too many missed opportunities, missed opportunities to bring the country into order, to finally correct the illogicality and absurdity of the system, to make Croatia a country, in which things simply work, in which institutions are effective and in which people trust them. In other words, a country where they move more than they do. There's so much chance of talking about it by tomorrow. So I'm going to stay in five concrete areas, especially where there's an expression of incompetence, tromostness and the inadequacy of this government. I'll start with education. Yesterday we heard that the Nobel Prize for Economics, this year, will be given to a man who has shown that education is a key lever of economic development. Unfortunately, Croatia can only cry on such fantastic knowledge. Croatia is a country with an inefficient, inefficient and outdated education system, which is not at all in line with the labour market, as seen in all sectors. This is why today we have a serious lack of personnel, in almost all segments of society from health care, craftsmanship, to the tourist sector. Croatia has no educational or development strategy, and this government has done nothing in addition to its sad performance on school reform. The other thing that Croatia is stagnating on, or even worse, is the situation in the Croatian judiciary. Since Croatia joined the EU, nothing has been done to improve this key segment of the action of a regulated state. I have the impression that the representatives of the government don't even know what a regulated and efficient judiciary would mean to the citizens without even saying what it would mean to develop the economy and improve the investment climate in our country. So we must be aware that when foreign investors see potential danger and justice in Croatia, they simply get their hair on their heads and usually turn around and leave. Which investor has time to wait 5-8 years to get rid of property issues on one single plot. The third example is the decentralisation of Croatia. I must say, I'm embarrassed to see the answers of my colleagues from HDZ when the subject is mentioned. In campaigns, all the great advocates of decentralisation are always. However, when the elections pass and the chair is in Zagreb, everyone currently forgets about decentralisation and specific problems of citizens, people in Vukovar, Gospić, Požega or St. Peter in the woods. All the most developed countries in the world, the countries best ranked for the quality of life, people are highly decentralised countries. And Croatia continues to decentralisation as we can see. So-called reforms that are not also turning from hollow to empty will certainly not change the current situation. Croatia needs a full policy of decentralisation and unfortunately these policies are not and will not be so soon. Be so fair as to tell the voters that you lied to them in the campaign. The fourth example is Croatia's relationship to our shipbuilding. About this time a year ago, I received the first information about the problems at the Uljannik Shipyard and my colleague, Mayor Walter Flego, and I have informed all responsible institutions primarily of the government. We clearly asked to immediately solve the problems of the shipyard, among other things, and because the state is the largest individual co-owner of the Oilies 25%. It's been a year, and the state still doesn't know what its position is and what it will do. 2 Ministers say one thing, 2 ministers say another and then a man comes to Brussels and colleagues from the European Commission simply tell us that they are completely confused because they have failed to understand whether our government wants to keep the shipbuilding or whether our government wants to get rid of shipbuilding. With your ignoring and trimming, you drove the strikers away, after which the shipyard lost almost 25 million kn and agreed jobs, the damage was done, the time cannot return. But today is October 10th, and you still don't know what's going to happen to the Oilman or the shipbuilding. Your relationship with the Uljanic, which is your property, best illustrates the government's relationship to the economy and development policy of Croatia. Because we are no longer talking about a shipyard here, we are talking about the government's relationship to the entire economic branch that works well in the EU countries because the countries dealt with it because they had a plan and because they used the mechanisms at their disposal. The government threw itself into strawberries by saving Agrokor, which is 100% privately owned, while deliberately blocking the possibility of saving shipbuilding, as one of the most important strategic branches, incredibly but truthfully. One clear message of the bridge, if you push the Oil in bankruptcy by inaction, can in principle and resolutely tell you to forget the repurpose of the space in the area of the Uljanik shipyard. Point. Finally, it is logical when you have in such an undecided and weak government that there is also a radicalization of Croatian society. In this Mr. We have witnessed countless times the relativization, the uprising, the fascist incidents. The government has absolutely no determination, nor the power to deal with such behavior. Let's just look at the countries in the environment, Austria, Italy, Germany, how they deal with such things. Such neglect leads to the normalisation of the constitution, chauvinism and excavation of violence, especially towards our minorities. We are a young country in which the government has an obligation to impose some standards of democratic behaviour, but this is not happening to us, and I believe that this is one of the most embarrassing opportunities for this government because any government without calculations should prevent the violation of the fundamental values of liberal democracy. It is particularly frustrating that in protecting civil and human rights media and civil society are much louder than politics. As a cream at the end of such an act I see nothing, I hear nothing of the government's position coming to the HDZ support of Viktor Orban, the way this government is leading Croatia is quite clear. This government is not a model of Germany, nor of Sweden, nor of Denmark, but of a radical conservative and closed Hungary. Croatia is unfortunately going in a completely wrong direction. This can be clearly read after the further decline of economic freedoms, freedom of the media, independence of institutions and seriously violated civilization standards. Are you wondering if that's what's causing the eviction of Croatian citizens? The countries that looked at us 20, 30 years ago as a model, they're way ahead of us today. Their citizens live better, not because they are much smarter or better than we are, but because their system in which they work and live is simply better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96594	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Bernardic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96595	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. On Monday 8 October, we marked 27 years of independence of the Republic of Croatia. After that, Croatia suffered a great sacrifice, people died, people had to leave their homes, but they had faith that their country would be a small, strong, but successful state where they would be able to plan life for themselves and their families. Those who have suffered and defended our country could not even dream that 27 years after the declaration of independence, 300,000 people will flee the country, that the country will leave the entire family, that half a million people in Croatia will live on the edge of poverty and hunger, that pensioners will dig through containers and wait for months and years for medical checks, that people will die on the road without emergency medical help. They could not dream that the laws, justice and the rule of law would not be the same for everyone, that their institutions, the security system that should protect them from crime and corruption would, on the contrary, protect this crime and corruption. Those who fought for our country never dreamed that in Croatia the laws would be written in a way that made them rich by those who wrote them like Lex Agrokor and the Borg group. They could not have dreamed that in their country state institutions would be used for political deals with non-experienced people. That the president of the Croatian Journalist Society would be fired on state television because he warned that he had received a clear warrant to write about the opposition, not about the affairs of the ruling. This is certainly not Croatia today, which many have fought for and for which many have died. I can especially say that today when I see this government's report. I'm sorry you didn't point out in your report that in your reforms you take the poor to give to the rich. While you, Mr Plenkovic, are calling on investors to invest in Croatia at the same time because in Croatia there is cheap labour and what are you doing as a government? You are proposing a law that will increase wages only by 20,000 of the richest in the country, including for you personally, whose salary should be increased by 4000 kuna net monthly and jump from 21 to 25 000 kuna. With your reforms you increase your paushal to private owners 5 times. With your reforms you charge double the bond in the ports of ordinary small man and fisherman, these are your reforms, Prime Minister. In your pre-election promises, you lied about reducing the overall VAT rate. As we can see, none of that. Instead, through some cosmetic changes to the value added tax, you leave extra profits to the import lobbys and thus directly benefit. In your report on government work, you did not specify what would happen to oil workers who could end up on the street tomorrow without a job, although your reports are of the same condition, about the situation in Ulnik for a year on drawers. With your reforms, you force people to work until the age of 67 so that as future pensioners they have less and more to live in. Why didn't you point out in your report that the educational reform you're conducting is like the so-called The experiment experienced a complete fiasco and that only the only bad PR story? In which there are no adequate textbooks, in which there is no adequate equipment of schools, in which there is no education for teachers who are not prepared to lead children under this new experimental program and experimental process, and we know that it is not good to experiment on children. Your report does not say that nationalism is emerging in Croatia, that the constitution continues to be great, that the home sign board is still not ready, and you as a government are silent, while on the other hand your coalition partner from the Serb people is being attacked because of this general state in society on the street in the middle of Zagreb. While you are referring to the European values that, I remind you, are based on the anti-fascist struggle, you have never come to a memorial in Brezovic, and you still have three columns in Jasenovac. And let me remind you, the commission that you have formed yourself and which, by your order, has concluded that the use of the Ustasha greeting for the House is ready in certain situations, and that is a picture of what this government is doing. I also wonder why your report has no latest knowledge of how they were secretly meeting and secretly preparing lex Agrokor, the key players of the Borg group who later pulled hundreds of millions of kunas from Agrokor. Given the latest findings, I don't know which time we're looking for an emergency DORH intervention because the crime is more than obvious. What's Mr. Jelenic's attorney general doing? Who's being protected by the attorney general, Mr. Jelenic? Does he protect the most government officials? I am also sorry that the report in the work of this government did not explain why you removed the chief state attorney, Dinko Cwitan, who launched investigations into key issues in the Republic of Croatia, who, along with his family today, must date three bodyguards. We're wondering why? Why did you do that? Furthermore, why does the report on your government's work not explain why HDZ uses the country's institutions for inside a party account? And why have citizens lost confidence in the key institutions of this country that should give them security and protection and how to trust the institutions after this? If we don't trust the institutions, what's left of the democratic system? If we don't have institutions in the country, then what do we have? And the reason for the eviction of a number of people from Croatia is not only unemployment and low wages, because they can't look and they're sick of the criminal underworld that's run by the state and how the political and judicial system in the service of individuals, and these kinds of affairs are discovered only when it suits some individuals. Also, citizens expect the right to explain to them in a report on the work of this government why the information from the intelligence system related to the investigation and why it disappears, see wonders and papers in the DORH involving your deputy, Mr Brkic, the person you appointed as vice president of the Assembly and the person most responsible for your arrival at the head of HDZ. Citizens have a right to know that. Most important of all, the SMS affair is not only discredited by Millian Brkic, but also by HDZ, and by you, Mr Plenkovic. This story is nothing new but a practice that HDZ has been carrying out for years. There is no significant difference between you and Millian Brkic, i.e. between you and HDZ's standard mode of operation. In your report, we haven't heard anything about the HDZ abuse of the security system as well as other institutions for years. With this affair this system is in a special way usurped and that's what's worrying. To your question do you really think we'd use institutions for inter-party accounts? The answer is yes, we mean that. The HDZ, whose leader you are, has convinced us on many occasions that it knows no limits when it comes to abuse, both the institution and everything else. You claim publicly that for some of the representatives in this Chamber you did not know who they were or what they were when you put them on the list. Why is there nothing in your report about whether you knew who Miljan Brkić was when he became your closest associate? We also remember that you didn't even know about the Borg, so then it turned out not only that you knew, but that you were deeply involved in the process, and you obviously forgot to mention it in the report again. I see further that in your report you did not foresee the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee to shed light on this, but all other or similar affairs. By refusing this initiative, you show that you're hiding something. Why doesn't the truth suit you? The public needs to know the truth. Things need to be cleared up because it's the only way we can restore citizens' trust in institutions. I believe that Croatia needs a complete recovery from HDZ's way of functioning and managing a state that leaves nothing but desolation behind. The whole country will turn into a big HDZ compound if you continue to rule in this destructive way and if you continue to drive people out of the country. Before the end, where did the plan for returning INA to Croatian hands go? You didn't do well to intervene for the latest stroke on the citizens' home budget when the gas was collected. It's just proof that basically this government is doing nothing. These are facts, and despite small and fragile economic growth, we must not underestimate reality. I still believe that Croatia is a country that has great potential and a chance for success. And in order for our land to succeed, it takes people who will serve it, not those who will be rich from it, who will oppress it and oppress it. We in the SDP are ready to serve our country and its citizens in a way that only what is good for Croatia can be good for the SDP. From various experts these days in politics, we hear almost all the time that the most important impression and perception is in politics. And the opposite of the attitude of you and your government trying to create an apparent impression that everything is in the best order, only citizens still see it, they don't always know or see it. I still believe that Croatia's success is the most important truth to face its weaknesses and to move forward, which is not in this report. And to conclude this report is nothing more than deception, lies and farce. And he deserves nothing more than early elections right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96596	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or what? Here you go, Comrade Schucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96597	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 33. The Rules of Procedure, because you did not warn the members of the SDP club that the president of their party was talking about, so only three SDP representatives followed most of his presentations, so I don't know who he was talking to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96598	Well, I estimate, of course, that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured because it is clear that no member of the party has been present here, of course anyone can speak for the party. Comrade Maras, you've also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96599	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you should have given a warning to Mr Shuker who is now washing what he gave a very strong hand to Sanader and did not clap at all to Plenkovic. And now he's trying to compensate it with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please give him a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96600	Comrade Maras, let's end this nonsense, let's end this nonsense of breach of the Rules of Procedure because I'm going to start giving you all a heads-up at the end. Well, that doesn't make sense, especially in a situation like this. Please, come on, let's stop, let's stop it. Let's stop this level of communication and continue with the next club of MPs and this Club of Representatives of the SDSS is on behalf of which the respected Representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96601	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that the Croatian situation today is shown in its real picture what the Prime Minister said in his report as well as what could be heard or could be heard from the opposition's ranks. That's how it's always been and it's how it is today. On behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club, I will refer to some aspects that the prime minister presented in his presentation. First of all, the strengthening of institutions and the institutionalisation of a country that has, in some sense, stopped since our entry into the EU. The reforms we implemented in the area of the judiciary, in the sphere of security institutions such as the police and other institutions, have stopped. The reforms we implemented in the area of strengthening local self-government and public administrations have also stopped. The reforms that we should have continued in terms of strengthening and restructuring businesses have also significantly stopped. Reforms that we should have continued to a significant extent when fundamental freedoms and rights also stopped on Wednesday. What did they stop for? So they stopped somewhere in 2014, in 2015 when instead of the future and according to the European perspective, we focused on the past and on who will be the larger non-constitutional patriot in this country who respects the laws, who respects the rules than who will be the greater patriot, who will be the larger Croat or bigger something and who will go more towards building a better past instead of a better future. The consequences of such commitment are seen today despite efforts to change that. So, strengthening institutions by starting from the parliament, starting from the ministries, starting from the units of local self-government, starting from legislative norms, starting from courts, starting from the police, is an imperative of a country that wants to be regulated and in which people will feel on the one hand security and on the other hand see what they need, that means the future. And in this respect, it is extremely important for this reform to continue. As for the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, it will undoubtedly, as we have done in that long period of 10 years from 2003 to 2013 be ready to do and to do today. The other thing I'd like, which I'd like to pay attention to, is the question of how and how to make our economy, our economy stronger, stronger and more efficient. In addition to addressing inherited issues or issues raised by the government and which have found a society such as Agrokor, such as Uljannik, such as Petrokemia, how to open up space for new business activities. Because if we stay only in dealing with what's wrong with us and what's burden on us, and we know that our burden, this government, knows the previous government, knows the government before the previous one, knows it before the previous and the previous one. But how and how do you open a space for new economic springs, and what are the branches of economies where this should be done? What kind of economic strategy would we in the Republic of Croatia know where our place is in a regional, European or global competition where we can do something? Tourism, we can say it's good that we have it. And is that a long-term perspective? It's not. Or the most reliable economic perspective? It's not. Is it enough? It's not. Especially since it does not involve the whole country but only a small part, especially since it does not apply to all aspects of the whole year of economic life but only to a few months. Is that agriculture? It could be, but it's not. There are no indications that agriculture is recovering in any way. There are still no serious indicators that European money to a sufficient extent and in a rational long-term justified way can lead to the revitalisation and strengthening of our agriculture. I can only give an example of herding. Yes, the number of cattle in the Republic of Croatia has increased. And this is the result of quite certain funds invested by the state and which together with European funds. But if we check the long-term perspective for the survival of that livestock, we'll see that it's not good. That I'm not talking about other aspects. So, about the agrarian, about the fruit industry, about the processing industry that's connected to it. The third branch that could be in this respect, construction. It's been experiencing some kind of recovery. But if the warnings we're hearing, and some of our colleagues here today are talking about it so that by next year it could be the year of the start of the new cyclical crisis, can we count on it to last? I don't know. The industry, in this respect, and of course we're talking about shipbuilding now, so we're looking after something that we have and there's no doubt that we need to keep everything that we can preserve. I don't think there's a single representative here or a representative who would easily give in to it and say, "So be it." For different reasons. But what are these industries where we can really do something? Are these individuals doing occasional flashes and withdrawals in their initiatives, or is that some kind of structural approach where we can do something? I don't believe that any more serious economic growth and consolidation can be if we don't have a better education than we have. Unless we have better science and better research than we have. We still stand out more for public security and security in general than we stand out for education. According to EUROSTAT data, the difference is quite large. With regard to public security, we are somewhere among 5.6 EU member states, and over 20 are behind us, and when education comes, the ratio is the other way around. We are at the end or at the very end. The Prime Minister rightly pointed out that a new fourth generation of industrial revolution is coming, technologically, cognitively, as anyone will call it. And how are we going to get into this cognitive revolution, whether it's neuro, artificial intelligence or something else, how are we going to get in if we don't have a very strong education? And if we're not going to think about it, how are we going to structure our budget for next year? And should we single out for certain sectors where some can rest growth and development will be denied, as they have been for years. There is no doubt that in the global world small people and small countries such as Croatia should be protected, they should safeguard their identity in different aspects and pay due attention to it. But there is also no doubt that if we pay attention to identity and not to knowledge, not to skills, not to the abilities of different types, if we understand language only by seeing the differences between us and others, whether someone speaks well enough Croatian, and not whether he speaks well enough and writes well enough. This will not be a concern in Croatian, as so far has been shown and shown. If we do not develop an adequate culture of discussion, an adequate culture of reasoning, if we do not teach children all these skills in schools, then we will not be able to reach what is rightly stated in the report of the Prime Minister, which is a tolerance society. The societies that are productively accessing the disputes and the problems he has and who recognizes the opportunity to create something, our disputes, unfortunately, are not. Our disputes are such that they prevent us from having a serious debate. I would like to say something in the end about the problem of inequality, which is a serious global problem, a serious European problem, especially a serious problem for countries such as Croatia. The problem of regional inequality is particularly expressed. If it could help decentralisation, as some of our colleagues say, I would be very helpful. Of course, it helps some areas that are more developed and that rightly highlight the necessity of decentralisation. If we can strengthen this with a policy of uniform regional development, with a particular concern for areas that do not have their own or have lost their own economic potential either because of the war either because of insufficient investment in those areas or because of insufficient concern in those areas, then of course we will be in this regard on the same line. But a good part of the Croatian area where people live from Knin to the White Manastir from the BISH border to the border of Slovenia, live people who, which should pay much more attention to the state than they pay. Which is not about the needs that are financially unrealistic. And therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, we expect with great expectations that the Law on Supported Areas will be adopted by 1 January of the following year. Sir, because these people, his children must not be punished because they live in these areas. This is how things are now as if they're being punished. Some of course do not want to endure this punishment, so they leave in large numbers, from Sisak, from Knin, from Dvor, from Kostanica. And we should do everything as a responsible state, to commit ourselves to it, to those instruments that are at our disposal, which are nowhere near the separations, which seems to be in the middle of the states to make things better and change things. As for the state of mind in our country, or rather, the fact that bad spirits try to dominate in our country. Bad spirits are trying to establish control over public change and bad spirits, trying to show people just because they're other nationalities, just because they're different political beliefs or just because they don't think like them. This kind of state of mind in Croatia should be taken seriously, it is not marginal and it has not since yesterday. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will also join in this matter all those who care, that democratic values, which include tolerance, which includes pluralism, which includes respect for diversity, which includes protection of minority rights, which includes protecting all those who are fundamentally depressed and depressed in society to be particularly and additionally protected and special consideration to us who are in the public sphere and in the public sector. For us, in the end I will say, and it is extremely important that we have a good position in the European Centre in Brussels and there is no doubt that in this respect, Mr. Prime Minister, Croatia, under your leadership, is building this position successfully, but there is also no doubt for us that our nearest neighbours of the Republic of Croatia should also be built as much, better relations as possible, and if they are not there, then try to reduce bad relations. But we have bad relations with a series of neighbors. For different reasons. For various reasons and regardless of how and how this has been contributed, our interest is our national and national interest that these poor aspects of relations are being reduced as much as possible and we do not contribute to deepening or increasing them in any way if it is not possible to go into order. And I believe that a relatively fast day will come when this imperative will exist whether we are talking about Slovenia, Hungary, Serbia, BiH or Montenegro. It's a place where our economy has serious interests. It's a space where the issue of our national security has serious interests. It is a place where we as a member of the EU and the first to do so have not only serious responsibilities but serious interests. And for this reason, I think that, with the efforts that I know in this regard, there is room to advance even on such delicate issues as the issue of continuing co-operation with BiH after last week's elections. Or with Serbia after a series of messages that have been exchanged that have not contributed to good relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96602	Let's move on. Now it's the National Minority Representatives' Club, Honored Vice President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96603	Thank you very much. As they say in these cases, I'll be brief. I am pleased that the Prime Minister highlighted in his report a whole series of positive indicators of progress, progress in, especially in the economy. Of course, it will all become real and realistic when citizens will be able to feel it on their budget, on their personal and family budgets. I agree with him when you accentuate the data. I also agree with the opposition when it contests that data. This role-playing game is actually one game that is renewed year after year and turns around, turns around when those who are at one point, in one meeting in the opposition become power and those who are in power become opposition. Then completely analog data are interpreted in, not in quite another way, but in the same way. Everyone has their role and authority and opposition but it needs to underline the fact that the data also has its value, especially when they descend at the level of citizens, their families and when they really feel in their pocket that something positive has moved, everything else, everything else is actually one, one game that opposition and power are changing. That's why I, that's why I have a certain memory of such things as you know, emphasize it. And that's why I'm not going to deal with that data but I'm going to be dealing with what may be less highlighted in speeches so far, I'm going to thank the President, I'm going to thank Mr. Plenkovic's government for mentioning that national minority representatives support, support this government, that there's an operational plan that's on paper there, but I'm also going to mention that there are serious delays in this operational plan. We are reluctant to mention these delays in the operational plan because we know how difficult certain things are, especially those concerning financial, financial efforts, how difficult they are, how difficult it is to achieve. But when it becomes clear that, for example, in school, where there are certain things that can be made with very little money or over, or almost actually free of charge that can change the apartment and not change, when it becomes clear that certain things are such as. The decisive opposition to what has been achieved by fighting Fascism and which survives today in some circles in Croatia. When it is missing, when it is missing, when it is missing, when it is actually missing in terms of realisation, the achievement of international obligations, means a contract concerning national minorities, then I think that at the very least it should be highlighted and said that we expect it to be achieved, that such shifts are achieved as quickly as possible. I gave Mr. Prime Minister and a document on what should be done and in which areas certain activities should be taken, and I very much hope that this document will be done, and that other national minorities have given it in the implementation of the operational plan, I very much hope that this will be taken into account and that this will be resolved as soon as possible. Because when you speak, for example. in this report, the identity needs to be strengthened through the Croatian language. We will say as representatives of national minorities through Hungarian, through Serbian, the same identity of Croatia should also be strengthened through Italian. When it is said that the development of culture ensures identity, then we will say that the culture of the Republic of Croatia consists of a culture of national minorities, with everything that the minister in the past government claimed and with which I entered into a rather harsh confrontation then because he felt that minorities were not the place in the Ministry of Culture. Verbals, and this is not highlighted enough, some have mentioned it, but verbal and non-verbal attacks on all those who are different, and especially on representatives of national minorities have been intensified lately. There are no threats on social networks, in some media, on the Internet and below articles, under certain articles in some television shows. This, of course, applies to a minority of extremists, not to most people, but that minority of extremists has its own targets, that minority of extremists have their own helpers in various institutions. And I think their goal is actually to destabilise this government and basically this country. The reason, the reason is power, of course, but national minorities are collateral, but very direct victims of all this. The government should be more resolute towards both those extremists and those circles that support them. You know what he said, it's less familiar, as our great sportsman from Pula, Mate Parlov, said, I'll quote Mate Parlova: How can I be a nationalist when I'm world champion? Those words should be a little bit more internalized than all those who put the nation above themselves and forget that we live in a world where they live, in a country where they live in other nationalities and in a world where other nations live, and of course we will do everything for example. Yes, not for example. but we will do everything to lose as little as possible of the population in the migrations that are now, to the economic migrations that we are exposed to. Don't forget that we live in a world that will have 10 billion inhabitants in just 10 years. And that I doubt that Croatia will also be exposed to immigration throughout this process of population development. We forget that the world is kind of blowing up from the population, we look at ourselves, our belly button, which is understandable, it's our people, but let's look at the world as well. Let's be like Mate Parlov. I'm gonna take this opportunity to say something about Istrian and... Shipbuilding, you said, Mr. Prime Minister, has accumulated a large number of problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's mentioned for the Oily Group, so Pula and May 3rd, Oily and May 3rd, Arsenal and May 31.7 billion kunas that have been given as incentives, all the countries in the world give incentives. But shipbuilding remains a problem that we have to approach by emphasising only one fact, only one fact and that's restructuring. You said Agrokor was rehabilitated, restructured without taxpayers' money. That's almost right, that's almost right. The restructuring of the Oils with any strategic partner must cost the state as well. It means costing taxpayers as well. But for decades Istra and the Primorje-Gorski County have actually participated strongly in filling the state budget through their resources earned from tourism and other activities and also from shipbuilding. This means that there was solidarity between Istria and less developed counties. And generally, Istra strongly participated in the financing of the state as such, all possible institutions more than almost anything else in the county, I would say anything. I therefore stress that solidarity must be mutual. If it's going to take taxpayers' money to revive, maintain, save the shipbuilding that was and is still our country's pride, then if it needs to be solid, I hope the state won't back down. Of course, with the re-privatisation and restructuring of arsenals, I call the arsenal "no square" and the end of the politicalization of this problem and of the pointless political competition that does not really mean anything but is just something that the workers and population of Pula and Istria feel in favour of those who sell reforms, foggy reforms with the populists of all possible species who know how to point to the problem and have no idea how to solve it. When I say that, I will also say that we are grateful to the government for the strong support of most parliaments and it is worth, of course, both when it was meant to defend the values of human rights such as women's rights not to be exposed to violence. It was keeping in mind internal dynamics, it was also a certain act of courage. It'll stay in history. We are pleased to be told that human rights and minority rights do not solve in referendums, although the referendum is of course a strong instrument when it is necessary to improve the world and not reverse it, and we are glad when you mention tolerance and rights in every speech, and we are part of these different national minorities. We cannot forget, however, that we need to be even stronger here because simply when situations happen like those recently with Serbian representatives or when situations happen and they happen for at least 3 years, where minorities and we are personally named and last named, exposed to verbal violence daily in the virtual world, and I have seen and felt in the real world, we must be more resolute. This report on the state of the nation we representatives of national minorities take note, we accept and we representatives of national minorities remain in the majority meaning we continue to support this government and let it not be misunderstood, we hope this mandate will last for four years. That would be all that can be said at this time of cooperation between national minorities and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96604	We are now going to the club of representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, two representatives, colleagues Sinčić and colleagues of Bunjac, the first is Sinčić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96605	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have here today at the hearing by the institute every year, so when the second half of the year, the second part of the Parliament's work, comes the government's report. The situation relative to last year is not better, the situation is where we were, we're spinning in circles, in some segments it's even worse, so we've fallen several places in economic freedoms. But we're taking it slow in a row. When we look at the success of some policy, we must always look at the satisfaction of the citizens. Let us take an average Croatian family or even a good model because there are hundreds of thousands of them according to the IRS, families with average income than we look at all those below average. Croatian society today marks polarisation. That so-called. The middle layer disappears or has already disappeared, polarization to a proportionally increasing number of increasingly poor and increasingly decommissioned and the growing numbers of those so-called. The elite or the parallels that are actually seen by events in our judiciary, in many things untouchable. And that's the injustice that touches an ordinary Croatian citizen, that's the injustice that hurts even more than economic inequality, than small wages, small pensions, that's the one perspective because citizens don't see it anytime soon that the government is ready for any change or reform. It should be said that what is most marked by the work of this government is the intransparency, wastefulness, corruption and hopelessness, but when it comes to survival in power, there is one uncompromising maquiveism, for some Croatia is just a step that needs to be trampled to reach the top. It's just what you can see around the airport of Dance on a cruise around Europe. Not those who think so, those who thus set their eyes on this society, they should never have been in a position to make policies. Here's to the beginning something about intransparency. On 17 May, we asked the Croatian Government to provide us with something that is public information, an insight into the book of entry and exits of the Croatian Government and supplement it, to this day nothing. Here is the answer today from the Commissioner for Information that the government's order of 8 days to choose is to manifest itself on our request, if we do not go further, to the administrative court, to administrative proceedings, and also to the Constitutional Court. When we talk about the situation in Croatian society, it may be best to see what you have brought down the critical thought, to which you have brought down the discourse, to which you have brought down the debate, it is also pictured in this Assembly. So look what this so-called today looks like. It's a debate. It's not a debate. Since your amendment to the Rules of Procedure, no more debate, or she is significantly reduced, it all comes down to monologues, first is Prime Minister Plenkovic what time, echoed the voice in the hall then each of us in the name of the clubs can present his, someone listens, doesn't listen, every story actually goes into empty thought then we go home as if we weren't there, there's no discussion, there's no proposal, there's no conflict, I mean it's terrible what this debate and work in the Assembly and even the whole Croatian society unfortunately works that way. People who want to, have the will to change it, make proposals and legal and all kinds of others, and the political elite that is currently ruling even one amendment is not able or willing to accept it. Reform, there's a lot of talk about reforms, it's like a year of reform, in every speech I've ever held on a particular topic, it's so-called. Justice reform or so-called, or the first round of tax reform or so-called The second round of tax reform or whether we're still going to have a pension reform by the end of the year, we're going to see for ourselves, I was saying that these are reforms that are not. What does reform mean in the Croatian context? In the Croatian context of reform, it means to deal with clientelism, to deal with those who by the party key, who by the birth key, means we talk about nepotism but it is much less expressed because in families are generally less organisations than parties, to enter this elite as if they have a VIP card, all of a sudden everything opens up to them, all the services, all the opportunities, and for those who do not agree in such a way, are either going abroad or living in humiliation, or citizens are second-class, and this is becoming more and more prominent. To make reforms means to deal with, it would mean to deal with interesting lobbys, with a waste mob that has for decades not allowed by the Republic of Croatia to be dealt with in a normal way by the orderly world, the problem of waste disposal, waste water. No, in order for them to fill their pockets and their companies, we all have to suffer and suffer. To make reforms would mean to deal with wooden lobbies or wooden mafia, a narrow group that gets more wood mass through the Croatian forests than they deserve while the small ones in the rural areas are decomposed, failing. Reforming Croatia would mean accounting with the Borg group rather than encouraging it, to be part of it or to organise meetings in the government building for the same group. Of all the lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, just the prime minister's friend had to write that bill, at first he even called... Of all the lawyers, he's the one who writes to him on the Internet's website, it's not a speciality, not with insolvency rights, not for trade, but for some third things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of all of them, just him, as an accident. Reforms would mean dealing with an executive mafia but in a serious way. Here's the news today, 20 times the cost of the principal. With this problem with several ethical societies and public record offices that are convulsing wealth there is no courage, but are given crumbs. We're gonna unblock it a little bit, and then we're gonna break this off, and then there's not gonna be an act in the winter. What does that mean? This means that all this time you've been part of the government, which normally carried out the raids, and even in the winter. You have to be aware of what you're saying. And in the end, if I didn't owe everything in this country that needs to be fixed, not to mention a lot of public tenders at all, reform would mean counting on a para-intelligence underground, with stakeholders who use indictments, who use insights into records and records when they need to blackmail, to narrow down most, and when they need to cover things up. Croatian institutions are really transparent, but in the wrong way, because for the wrong people, their walls are like glass, they come in, they read what they want, they bring out what they want and when they want. You say you inherited your problems, yes, by whom? By himself, because who has ruled this country in the last 30 years? Ugl. It's HDZ right now. From it you inherited problems, let's just start with the INA, from which you inherited problems with INA. Taxes on the so-called so-called. reform, the most cheerful bankers, with 14 billion margins a year, which is a record for Europe. So, with this money, we currently have some 27 according to the answer to my representation questions, so official information in the CNB is about 27 billion kn of money, which belongs to business banks who do not want to place in Croatian agriculture, in Croatian entrepreneurship, in energy projects, anything. They have money, they're standing there, they don't want to invest it, a kind of diabetes, on the one hand, we're crying out for investments and cheap money or even free money, on the other hand, anything that's not consumption and import goods, it's very hard to get any funding. You were also talking about competitiveness, how many segments you could only touch it on. Only calculate the specificity of farmers who produce somewhere in the area of Osijek and supply Zagreb 3 times a week, transport their products by highway there and back to the annual level compared to countries that have vignettes, it is 50 times more cost than that other country, but Slovenia, rather than the Czech Republic, Austria, that I am not saying that in Germany the highway is free of charge. Let's get back to the beginning, to the average Croatian family, the average Croatian family is at risk from all sides, now the price of fuel has gone up again, in Italy diesel, the euro and the half, the gas is the euro and 65 there, approximately as in Croatia now, and the purchasing power is triple and more. So they have a much smaller share of the budget to give to the family than we do. The Croatian family is under terrible pressure from all sides and its economy is difficult to maintain, is unable to satisfy the basic basket and is actually asking the question, how it works, hard or not, difficult or impossible. And many don't want to suffer that violence anymore, and said Gangi, poverty is the greatest violence and escapes from that violence, from you thugs abroad. If you don't have to listen to me about all this, you have an example... Europe, here, here you have, 22 points, so listen to them, very similar things tell you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because simply, it's a matter of efficiency and functionality of the system, you're not able to implement it, because you would have to deal with customerism, or yourself. As you've reduced unemployment, yes, but in fact keep quiet, just by forcing the population out, you've increased employment, yes, but you're now statisticalally leading the seasons as workers. All in all, very thin, the score is 1 out of 10 or 0 out of 5, the government by its overall score, very close to the government of Ivo Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96606	Now will continue the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96607	Thank you very much President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister with guests, I want to talk here today about a problem that destroys the Croatian state, which is a problem of corruption, which is primarily reflected through party favoration, nepotism, clientism and all other radical forms of the functioning of society. According to the official corruption index, Croatia goes back from year to year, regardless of its entry into the EU, as it stated... Croatia is faced with an uninterrupted series of affairs, resulting from non-transparent bargaining of businesses, suspicious procurement procedures, hidden concessions, and in particular was harmful, lack of transparency, about the adoption of lex Agrokor and not enough billing by the company's extraordinary administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as far as the independent analyses are concerned, the borg group was a criminal group, and the question arises, who was in charge. Someone was in charge. Whether it was a colleague, Ivan Pernar, or whether it was a colleague, Ivan Shuker, or perhaps it was Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Could the head of the association borg explain to us what services the advisers had provided to Agrokor, that only 2 days of work had been subject to a million-euro bill. Could these have been free advice given on hot mail? Have these advisors returned the money according to your recommendation, Mr Plenkovic of Bulgaria, which you sent instead of everyone? Did you Zdravko Marić and Martina Dalic update the public on the activities of the borg group and if so, which is the appropriate sanction. Do you think Croatia will climb the corruption index or fall again after the SMS affair and elite prostitution? How it's possible to disappear the files from state institutions without anyone answering for it. In civilized countries, they'd be dropping their resignations, what about us? Imagine, even one Predrag Štromar, the most obedient among the obedient, dares to say that HDZ is a mob organization, as much as she is from the film Godfather. Let me remind you of what this looks like in the famous Kopoli movie, the mob is organizing what's called. forbidden pleasures, e.g. an elite prostitution which is by itself a stupid name or, say, drug use, then after that puts clients, public figures and entrepreneurs in trouble with the law, then saves them by covering up the case, but then keeps them in their hands for the rest of their lives to do any kind of service or which is the most important racketeer behind the money. It is therefore a model of work by the vice-presidents of the Republic of Croatia and Vice-President Andrej Plenkovic and associated police officers, intelligence officers and judges. And that's what Andrej Plenkovic knows everything from the first day of his term and he didn't do anything. Because as the gentleman, his close associate Bozinovic said, so far there has been no political will for it. Is it necessary to clear crime with political will or is it necessary to clear crime at any time through the independence of institutions? Not only did Mr. Prime Minister not only do anything to resolve this situation, but he himself set the most negative example, not only through the Borg group, he has promoted Božidar Kalmet to the post of Assistant Secretary General of the HDZ, although he knows that the trial against the team is being conducted for the organisation of the network of people who pulled money from the Croatian highways. He takes as adviser former Milanovic's right-hand man, Mr. Sauch, although he knows that he has been charged with falsifying the signature and drawing millions of kunas into private accounts. His ally is Branimir Glavas, a convicted war criminal who, through Draga Tadic, even tried to bribe the Supreme Court judge. When he was to be brought to justice, he fled to BiH, at the same time as his mentor. Not only is Mr Tadic allowed to escape, but Mr Mamic and Mr Todorovic are also allowed and many others before him. Another ally, Radimir Cacic, has been sentenced to 22 months in prison for killing two people. Milan Bandic, a man charged with setting up jobs, misuse of public money and inciting perjury. It's a society where our Prime Minister comes here to boast of some kind of national transparency and some kind of government success. His adviser, Mr. Bandic, speaks of women in the most pathetic way as the last recipient. I guess these are the rights of women who are represented by the ruling coalition made up of parliamentary representatives and party presidents who insult women, who organise prostitution and visit strip clubs, which you can see by an already superficial review of social networks. So, the Prime Minister organised a parliamentary majority that rules the state in principle of blackmail, as in the Kum film, that's what Mr. Stromar said, and as the most responsible person allowed the ultimate abuse of the system for political purposes within the party's accounts, for the elimination of political rivals and turned institutions into a defacto extended secretion of governments that citizens absolutely do not trust. Unfortunately, we must conclude that we live in a system where 90 percent of citizens believe that the judiciary is corrupt, in which the vast majority of public competitions, even those for unqualified jobs are furnished, not only in HAC, but everywhere, in a society where there is no justice, in a society where there is the only way to achieve something in life even to get the most banal services, to have political influence or to pay bribes. Croatia is a tormented country, a hungry country of justice, a country where citizens want honesty and order, and there is no such thing, and therefore they move even more than because of poor salaries that Minister Maric systematically does not want to raise with his tax reform. And so that citizens can even trust the state when they see the son of a retired general caught with 4kg of marijuana and 27 grams of cocaine and 100 000 euros in a refrigerator in his father's apartment being punished for charity work. How long are the trials of Nadan Vidosevic, Sanader, Horvatinčić and other HDZ feathers? What are the verdicts, have they ever been made? I must conclude that Croatia, under the government of Andrej Plenkovic, is on the move to suspend a democratic society, to step up to the introduction of the personal dictatorship of one person, one party to a step towards a society where lies, fraud and robbery want to promote as something honorable, as something acceptable and as something normal. For all these reasons, the Live Wall club rejects the government's report entirely and with disgust.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96608	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and esteemed counterpart Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96609	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The HDZ advocates' club will support the government's annual report submitted to parliament by the prime minister. At first, it should be said that this way of submitting the annual report did not result from the amendment of the Rules of Procedure that was made this year, but rather this is a legal tool and a way to expose and display the work of the Government, which was adopted in 2013 by amending the Rules of Procedure at the time of the PDO... Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let me go back to the metrics and what I want to talk about on behalf of the Advocacy Club. So in every society, especially in Croatian society, in the Croatian public, there is a question among our citizens how and how to improve the standard of living of every Croatian citizen. How to increase wages, how to increase pensions, how to reduce unemployment and increase employment, how to improve the health system, what demographic measures to bring to a halt emigration, how to attract investment in Croatia. Every issue and political analysts and commentators and politicians and journalists and all those who follow the work of the Government, Parliament's work argues that we need and need reforms and therefore clearly raises the question of whether this government has sufficient reform potential and capacity for these reforms that would lead to the improvement of our fellow citizens' standard of living can bring or capacitated implementation, design and realisation. On behalf of the Club of Representatives and in my own personal claim that since the establishment of the sovereign Croatian state, no government has had this much reform capacity. And I'm going to say about that in the next few minutes that are reforms that prove that my assessment of the government's reform potential. So we will remember that in November 2016 only a month after the appointment of the Government in the Croatian Parliament we adopted the first round of tax reform. A few days ago in Parliament, we discussed a third round of tax reform. In these three rounds of tax reform, we charged Croatian citizens with more than 6.5 billion kuna. We hear also these days that the opposition offers new, different tax-change solutions, primarily income tax, which they say would contribute to our most vulnerable citizens, while forgetting the simple fact, the generally known fact that these most vulnerable citizens, income tax bonds are also exempt from income tax. That out of the 2 million and 700 taxpayers on income income, millions and 500, therefore those most vulnerable with minimum incomes have already been exempt from income tax. Therefore, the proposal changes income tax as part of a tax reform does not hold water when it comes to helping our most vulnerable citizens through a change in income tax. The second reform I will particularly highlight is the reform relating to the adoption of the Law on the procedure of extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance in the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, in our club of HDZ representatives, it is a structural reform that applies to the entire Croatian economy and changes significantly the procedure and fairness in the religious debt relationship because everything that happens afterwards is seen in the light of the adoption of the law itself in the process of extraordinary management in commercial societies. Without a single kuna, the cost of Croatian taxpayers instead of bankruptcy was preserved only in Croatia, 30 thousand jobs and in the entire system about 60 thousand jobs and for more than 150 thousand employees in companies associated with Agrokora were preserved, their jobs were preserved and these companies continued to operate. Not to say that the law is also recognised in a court in Great Britain, Switzerland and the United States and is slowly becoming part of the EU's acquis as one of the insolvent laws. We are in the Parliament, that is, in the government's procedure there is a pension reform. The objective of the pension reform is to maintain and enable a long-term sustainable pension system in which more than 17 billion kuna on the one hand is allocated from the state pension budget at the moment. On the other hand, to increase pensions, a sustainable pension system, with the adequateness of pensions, with the strengthening of the second and third pension pillars, along with insurance, with the establishment of a state pension insurance company will certainly lead to an increase in pensions. Therefore, it sounds to me and is unacceptable just before the SDP president's statement, which says the HDZ is driving people to retire at 67 years of age by that pension reform. In doing so, he forgets that the SDP government passed a law in 2014, which prescribed that our fellow citizens would retire at 67 years of age. We also testify that in the spring of the Parliament we brought in a mini judicial reform that reorganized the network of judicial authorities by joining criminal and municipal courts, which is... led to speed up pending cases in Croatian courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In parallel with the adoption of this mini tax reform, we have passed laws on write-offs to natural persons, the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on financial assets under the Consumer Bank, which has already been reduced by about 50,000 blocked citizens and 24 billion kunas have been reduced blockades in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the judiciary, I will refer briefly to Mr. Bernardic's words and shortly before Mr. Bunjc's statement. Mr Bernardic says HDZ does not know the limits when it comes to the abuse of the system. If Mr Bernardić and I call him here, he has any evidence publicly of the abuse of the justice system, the repressive apparatus by HDZ to make it public or to slowly refer to the DORH and to the evidence in which he harshly accuses the government and the HDZ leadership. If there is no evidence, such a cheap and rough, cheap and rough collection of political poems is enough to talk about the political sinking of the SDP. As far as the Living Wall is concerned, Mr. Bunjec's earlier statements only talk about how proportionate the fall of the Living Wall's ratings is is getting more and more difficult the irresponsible, unfounded insinuations are heading towards [[/Intruder Pernar: You have lost the president, a member of the BiH presidency, sir. You lost the election.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96610	Comrade Pernar, I give you a warning because what you're doing is really a pig.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96611	So I would like to say how much further SDP rating will continue to collapse, i.e. the Living Wall will continue to bear witness to the harsh insinuations of the Living Wall which will certainly not contribute to it and in the first place speaks of a colleague of Bunjec and the leaders of the Living Wall such a performance in the Croatian Parliament. When we speak, and I will continue with the reforms of this government, I would especially single out a reform, namely the restructuring of the road sector. Thus, the refinancing of the debt at the annual level saved about 350 million kunas, which stabilised the road sector so that no one mentions neither the monetisation nor the privatisation of Croatian highways anymore. But what I would like to single out if we are already talking about the interest that is largely participated in the part that is dependent on the level of credit debt of the cestar sector, then I would like to especially point out, namely, from Mr Petrov, that the cost of interest in the Republic of Croatia is greater than that of GDP in Croatia. That's not true. If we claim that the level of GDP in Croatia in 2017 was 365 billion kuna, then that growth of 2.9% as foreseen for 2018 is significantly above the cost of interest in the Republic of Croatia, which was below 10 billion kuna at the end of last year and this year will be around 9.5 billion kuna. It is therefore important to point out that in the Croatian budget, i.e. the Republic of Croatia's budget, there is a primary surplus, which means that it is higher, that GDP growth is higher than the cost of interest. Further on on the educational reform we had before and we heard about its implementation in Croatian education, the establishment of health centres of excellence, digitalisation and technical equipment of primary schools, so I won't be long on this. On the need and realization of the reform... The health system, through the functional integration of 12 hospitals and already on Friday, on the agenda of this House, we will include the Health Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also experience a reform of the defence system through the adoption of the National Security and Homeland Security Act and the return of the army to Vukovar, Sinj, Ploče, Varazdin and Pula, the acquisition of a multi-purpose fighter F16 from Israel and the return of dignity to Croatian soldiers and the Croatian military tells of a different approach and military sector, the Croatian military and every Croatian soldier. In particular, I would like to highlight the reform of the agricultural system that we have defined here in the Croatian Parliament by the Law on Agricultural Land, the Family Agricultural Economy, the Agriculture Act, the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. In particular, this reform of the agricultural system takes place through the implementation of rural development where 2 billion and 400 million kuna, respectively, are foreseen in this financial framework for the rural development programme. There are record tourist seasons behind us that contribute significantly to GDP growth. In the Croatian Parliament we passed a Law on State Property Management aimed at protecting and activating state property. I would particularly like to say that through the decisions of the Ministry of State Property and the Government, there are already a number of facilities and properties left to units of local self-government, which will contribute to a greater and faster activation of state property itself. When it comes to the management of state property, I would especially like to refer to the words of fellow Miletic about the speedy, or not to worry about the Government towards Uljanik, or 3. Maya. I would remind all of us, that during the SDP government there were words that with 3 billion kuna the entire Croatian shipbuilding sector was restructured, as it was put on its feet and how it is now possible to be competitive on the world market. How well and in what way is this restructuring being done is also the fact that in 2016 it has been established and the signs of the crisis are both in Uljannik and in 3. Maya. And here's the hot potato because it wasn't solved then, which is just restructuring neither the Oilies nor the 3rd. May was not at the necessary level today we are witnessing the need for re-intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has already approved around 710 million kunas in the wake of the year for the functioning of the Oils, and I believe that through the new restructuring plan we will find a solution for both Oil and 3. May. In particular, it would point out the improvement of the EU funds and in this context would also single out the Pelješki bridge and LNG for whose construction and realisation is secured from the European funds of around 460m euros. I hear these days, there has been little and there has been an announcement of the BIH lawsuit as Mr Komsic has already announced because of the construction of the Pelješko Bridge. Here I would like on behalf of the HDZ Club special words, therefore, that regardless of the defined border between the BIH, the Pelješki bridge is 400 m deep in the area and the aquarium in the territorial sea and the internal sea sea sea seas of the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you that the Tudjman Izetbegovic agreement has not yet been ratified in the Croatian Parliament, but I say, even if the text was adopted as it was signed, the Peljeski bridge is still being built on the Croatian aquarium, I say 400 m in Croatian inland sea waters. And its construction provides, ensures the right... all ships of reasonable quantity and correction from the port of Neum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the state interests of BIH by building the Peljega Bridge, when it comes to the use of the port Neum, are protected. We in Croatia were not satisfied with such a solution of borders on... The bay, because we have claimed and claimed that both the large and small Schools, which were included in the agreement, have always been part of Croatian territory and that both the property of the large and small School is being managed neatly in the municipal court's grantovnica in Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, even if we accept such an agreement, even if the Croatian Parliament ratifies it, the Pelješki bridge will still be built on the Croatian aquarium and will allow, in accordance with international concession on the right of the sea, a harmless and unfettered passage of ships to and from the port of Neum. Since I mentioned relations with the BIH then, we know that we have already included in the Parliament's agenda a declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the position of Croats in the BIH and the European route of BIH. In this sense, I announce that very quickly here in the Croatian Parliament, we will discuss the very declaration, and thus, as the Croatian Parliament, as the most representative body in Croatia, we will manifest ourselves on the position of Croats, on the net elections in the BIH and on the support of Croatia in the European path of BIH. I would especially like to say that we have passed the Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families on a proposal from the Government, as promised. A number of activities have been undertaken, which are given for the recognition and respect of Croatian defenders,... Beautiful us and achieving independence and freeing us from aggression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard the Prime Minister's statement this morning, as much as the D.A.'s budget has been increased over the past two years. So, all that I said and a number of other activities of the Croatian government led to public finances, led to the growth of the economy, led to tax discharge, led to export growth, investment growth, which significantly changed the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian economy in the third quarter of this year increased by 2.9% year-on-year faster than in the previous quarter and faster compared to the EU average, thanks to continued export growth, personal consumption and investment. The State Statistics Institute announced at the end of August the first assessment by which GDP will grow about the level proposed by the Government in 2018. It is already 16th quarter in a row, as GDP grows faster than in the previous year, when the economy lost 2.5% at the annual level. Investments increased by 14 quarters in a row. Therefore, the question I raised at the beginning about the government's reform potential is sufficiently confirmed by the following facts, that the salary increased by 710 kn compared to the time before this government. That increased pensions by 6.3% increased the minimum salary of 8.2%, that there were never fewer employees in Croatia since 1990 and that at the same time the highest employment. At the same time the biggest employment in Croatia was in 1990. We are bringing in innovative measures, increased maternity and parental benefits. A number of other measures related to subsidisation of residential loans talk about care for young families Mr. President, I end up with this, so what I said at the beginning, this government has a vision, it has a strategy and the laws that we bring to Parliament, we prove that... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and that we will fully implement the government's programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96612	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative, Željko Lenart, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96613	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I understand that the diameter is tired of all these affairs that shake Croatia and on the occasion it must face, I feel sorry for it from a human level, but it is such a job so we need to talk about it. I have to admit that I expected more today than this report, but at one point I felt like I was in the Matrix movie, for those who may not have seen, it was created parallel consciousness, and basically man serves as a source of energy for a particular species. We're talking about a lot of things here, I've tried, some quotes written in diameter, so listen to this debate, the diameter has mentioned reforms, which already yield results. I don't see a lot of results, because the situation in Croatia is catastrophic. Reform is something, at least in my opinion, which drastically changes relations and movements in a sector, I have not seen drastic changes in any sector in the Republic of Croatia. The prime minister says we are acting in an atmosphere that spreads pessimism. So, my people, who can be optimistic today? Do you think in a country where every day more and more people are digging through containers where the spider's law is a web where emergency flies get caught, and the bumblebees fly through it where optimism can be spread? Our children go hungry to school because of their indifference, and therefore there is no spread of optimism. I believe that man must be optimistic in his being, but the atmosphere in which the Republic of Croatia is located is really pessimistic. The prime minister says that all eight minority deputies support the government, agree, support, but why? Because they are targeted by taxpayers' money with which they were bought, and only for this reason do they support this government. Or that they are not satisfied with some personal requirements, or if they are aimed at improving the state of minorities in Croatia, then I agree, but whether they are personal or not, you judge for yourself. He says the prime minister also strengthens the rule of law in Croatia. So here are the last days, and I don't see that the stronger rule of law and I'm asking you how in all these affairs that we have in the past, that I don't start with those painting tunnels, from the remorkers, the mountaineering firm of the media, the Agrodor and the Borg group and that I'm not picking up now, we're stuck with the elite prostitution because it's convenient for the people to talk about elite prostitution, it's interesting you understand, but prostitution whether it's elite or not, it's not hurt the state or what it's taken from the state budget, but some other jobs have hurt this state and the state budget far more. The state cannot support citizens unless the institutions are effective. So how can institutions be effective with so much employment of unprofessional entanglements in cousin, godfather, party, where HDZ predicates and some other relationships? Well, it may be okay to help a man who knows his job, but when people who really don't have anything to do with what they're doing, then Croatia comes into this position and this situation is what it's in. The prime minister says a reduction in the number of court cases. The courts may have reduced the number of cases, but these are the items of small people and poor women who get rid of themselves very quickly because they have only a few pages of the case file. However, the items of large, large fish with 40, 50 or 100 000 pages of the file are life-long objects, and they will likely be dealt with as long as the gentleman lives, when they are no longer alive, then they are judged anyway for those misdemeanors they have committed against the Republic of Croatia, not against man, but against the Republic of Croatia. And we know very well how many such objects there are and what they look like and why probably everyone around us in Croatia sees such eyes as they look at us. Transparency, independence, efficiency of the judiciary. Well, it is clear to everyone in Croatia that there is no independence of the judiciary. Once Horvatinčić was so judged, here are my friends after that verdict they said so far we had doubts that we were leaving Croatia, now after that verdict we are leaving Croatia because this is really a shame that it is happening here. So big fish can live without a problem again, while others pay their traffic tickets very quickly or something they've done, and they're breaking the law. The freedom of the media is an important component of society, I agree, but some media are free, but they have a very big policy impact, and influence can be exercised by those who are in the government, who have state money and who can, through various ways, benefit the media or influence them. At the moment when the prime minister boasts then it's okay, but when it's written against then it's the event of a hybrid war. No one will be outside the law in Croatia. So this claim is no longer believed in Croatia by primary school children. From the affairs that rock HDZ, but also from the institutions, it is clear to everyone that this claim is a lie and the deception of Croatian citizens, and believe me that they no longer believe and argue outside, and I am sorry that the prime minister cannot experience this reality of the world outside because he is still the prime minister, wherever he comes and everyone appears, pats him on the shoulder whether they are for him or for him, because he is still prime minister. He'd have to disguise himself somehow to see what the real Croatian people are saying and what they really mean. Improving the management of state-owned companies. What's a promotion? Privatize them? I'm a Kutincan, now there's Petrochemy on the wallpaper. I argue that Petrochemy can also do positive business under the state stick, but when Petrochemy pays 20% more gas than it is on the free market, and the government does not want to give a guarantee to Petrochemia at the bank that she can buy on the free market, when Petrochemy pays 3-5 times as much gas transport, and when all of this is summed up annually, it amounts to about 300, 350 million kunas although they can't exactly calculate in lip because they don't want to give me the right price of gas in the contract, but in one radio show, Mr. Poppie admitted to me that I calculated well. Do we have to sell out everything that is Croatian, Petrochem which is a strategic industry for agriculture, which produces food for the production of food that was the first during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia and defenders, as well as material resources that it included in the defence of Croatia. Exports of goods and services are growing. Possible but, however, imports are growing far more. In agriculture, exports are covered by only 60% and we have a god-given country. Unfortunately, our farm, which is said to be a strategic branch, which is said by the prime minister, has simply failed. All sectors in agriculture have fallen apart from warfare. And warfare would have failed if there were no exports to the EU, that our corn, soy, wheat did not need Italians, Germans and others with good raw materials, only in Croatia did it not. Breeding, livestock is an engine of agriculture, it was destroyed in Croatia, especially the dairy sector. It is sad that our people who had stops from the operational programme, for 50 cows today work in Germany on a farm, are respected workers and the German asks them and wonders how their farm in Croatia could have failed and they know how to produce so well. The apple, here's the other day I symbolically gave the minister an apple and a green, import apple that costs 10 kn at the mall. Our apple swears 20, kuna and 40 is the price they're talking about but not sold, for first class. We have beautiful orchards, beautiful people who produce it, have great costs and we simply don't want to talk about it and tell ourselves there are people, so it's not very good that it happens, let's help sell our apple in Croatia. They say we cannot ban imports, so as Slovenia banned the import of industrial apples at the moment... Industrial apples from Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are models we just don't want to use. We simplified the tax system and relieved the citizens and entrepreneurs. Partly yes, but insufficient. Citizens are relieved very little, they don't really feel it and entrepreneurs continue to moan under the burden of fiscal and parafiscal givings. When you sit with people, from the agricultural sector, craftsmen, small and medium, they all say it is too difficult and they are simply at the border to close their businesses or companies and that everyone is slowly buying from somewhere in Croatia. It is said that the number of employees was increased by 71 000 and the number of unemployed was reduced as last year to 13.4 today to 7.9%. Well, dear Prime Minister, it is clear to all of us that these numbers are the fruit of the departure of young, educated and middle-aged people outside Croatia. So today you have at the Irish Club of Slavons who take care of people who come from Osijek you have 2 buses every day, a regular line for Germany. People were leaving at first because of work, because of money, today they're leaving because they don't want to see what's going on in the Republic of Croatia anymore. They just don't want to listen anymore and watch what's going on. It's not just you and me, we're all a little about the situation in Croatia. But we need to be self-critical, not only should we boast, we need to be self-critical and tell ourselves that's the situation, set up and maybe a bad position and move on from there. The average salary increased by 710 kn. I agree that but the costs are far higher than that, here's the fuel going to heaven these days. Energy, too. It's sad that you can't get a heating tree in the country in the woods, that you're limited to it, that prices are being charged and people are heating up on renewable energy sources, and that's the tree. Croatia's biggest challenge was to stabilise the big company Agrokor. Unfortunately, none of us will know the real situation in Agrokor. What we know, what's going through the media, the Borg group, the lex Agrokor, turns out to be set up, the legal robbery of Agrokor, that a lot of the big money has been in the private pockets and the company is going to end up, we'll see. It takes time to put it all in place. Reforms of the pension system, many people are already afraid for pensions, full-time pensions are too small and part of the people tell you we're going to Germany to at least earn some pension because we're no longer sure we're going to get a pension here. That's how people think in the field. Making a positive investment climate. How to get investors in the Republic of Croatia when we have permanent changes to the law, when you start an investment with one law, you end up with a third law and compared to what you have planned, all of you lose weight and question whether this business of yours will later be able to function because new environments and new situations have been created for your business. There is also the normal corruption that governments in Croatia, we are all aware of, we know that we are on the scales in the world, where we are guided and how corrupt we are. It is sad that we are the only ones in the EU ahead of Romania and Bulgaria. Well, in Romania, they've been driving cars on the road and horsebacks until recently, and they're going to beat us now. The creation of a framework for the rapid development of assisted areas. Faster development, so as if they were now developing, not developing, stagnating, people leaving areas. Mr. Pupovac here spoke of the Court, of Banovina, of places where it is very difficult to live. You're a long way from everything, from doctors, from institutions, from employment, from talking about Face and other places like that. Thanks to the freedom of employment in the EU, workers have been displaced and therefore this wave of emigration from the Republic of Croatia. Well, it's not just because the door to Europe opened, it's simply because of the lack of work that was under way in the Republic of Croatia. Let's remember that he's been a schizophrenic worker in the past, but here we are today when we come into this situation, when employers don't have enough workforce, professional in the jobs they do, we come out of one problem to another. Demographic trends can be measured in the medium, medium and long term, that is true, but the emigration took place in the short term. I'll read you a quote from the blogger Krulet who best paints the situation in Croatia as far as the workforce is concerned today. He says, you can now guarantee horses a kilo of sugar a day, guarantee about... And the lighter the plow, the spring water in the barn, the daily fresh hay, it's too late, the crow horses are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no mild measures the government can implement will bring people back to Croatia. Since my time is running out, I'm going to speed up a little bit. As far as equal and quality medical services are concerned, it is neither single-stage nor equal-quality for all. It's sad when a man who's diagnosed with a tumor gets his appointment in a year or two. He'll probably be gone by then. Emergency medicine, I don't know if the prime minister happened to you when it happened to me that I've been under two or three times in half an hour to an ambulance in Kutina, that they were locked doors, and I just had to head towards Sisko. And that's one measure that makes people leave, a locked ambulance. What do you think came in here with a heart attack? He wouldn't be there, we'd have articles on TV and a man would leave. National anti-cancer plan, other than mortality. My people so what's being sold out of groceries in the malls? What kind of meat does it sell? What kind of food does it sell? Well, no wonder there's cancer elsewhere by mortality in the Republic of Croatia. The air, the stress, all the conditions that simply work on a man, regardless of how he's having an asset situation whether he has money or not. Croatian athletes showed talent, sacrifice and results. Yes, but we must say that Croatian sport has bad conditions and that we athletes remember when they become famous and when they become successful at world or European levels. We should remember them in those small clubs that operate in villages, in municipalities and towns, that's where a new frame is created. Blocked, 325 grand, and apparently now we're down to 274, so that's a lot. I'll tell you an example of one of my friends. The man owed 130 thousand kuna, for certain reasons he couldn't return. He has a military pension of 7000 kuna, 250 thousand kuna has been paid in 10 years, today he owes 120 thousand kuna, only 10 thousand kuna capital. He can't get a loan anywhere to pay back and pay his war normally. Banks, one of the main problems in Croatia are banks and relations. Please be like Viktor Orban towards the banks and will drastically change the Republic of Croatia and the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96614	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. This is a one-year report. Today, when we hear discussions about this report, we have a sort of impression that we've been discussing 25 years. It is as if Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government, which has been guilty for 2 years of everything that has been going wrong all these years. Well, there's been a lot of bad going on and it's hard to comment on anyone in those events that were behind us. It's hard to alimony anyone because of the climate that was created in society. But the fact is, this year, a whole series of positive shifts have been made by the government. The fact is that this is a little bit compared to what we should do and the fact is that today and so it will always be until the situation is fixed, always the one who is in the executive power and who is responsible will have to suffer criticism for all those failures of all those who have worked before. But I would still like to be classified on behalf of our club, the HDS club, HSLS, HDSSB and return to that last year. And say that our club will support this report because it has a whole series of positive shifts. But in this hall, in this assembly we are exposed to the principle of creating a negative and bad climate in society. Okay, it is certain that a number of bad decisions have been made in this assembly that have resulted in the creation of such a climate and are present today. We here today in the prime minister's report can read that state finances have been stabilised, tax changes have strengthened local self-government, care for regional development, that the government is holding its sessions in various parts of Croatia, where decisions are always made that are important for the area, that in this way one relationship to the attempt to create an atmosphere of even development, that large infrastructure projects have been launched, that the collapse of Agrokor without state tax money has been prevented, that the relationship with Croatian defenders is almost never so good and on the basis of all this we should say that there could be some point of light to which we could look at and say some things are turning. But unfortunately, we're so poisoned, so much is the general climate in society poisoned that all the shifts it really has simply remain inconspicuous. And that just nobody wants to notice them. Is it good for the general state of society, is it good for any progress? Of course it's not, of course it's not, and the worst thing is that we came into the situation today when we have the positive trends mentioned in the Prime Minister's report and all of them are correct, we have the same public attitude towards these changes as it was when there was a diametric opposite, we don't have any better climate in society, unfortunately today in this environment, in this environment, than it was when it grew up and the debt piled up, when the OPGs collapsed, when they collapsed on the tenth of the rotation, it was the same climate. And there's a problem that should be talked about a little bit more, a little bit more dedicated to him, wondering why it's like that and what to do to get that turn in some kind of positive direction? Somehow I come back at a time when employers used to say good is, if someone doesn't work no problem, they wait for tens of those who will. That was the time behind us. It was a time when man humbled himself, when people stepped on it, and it was in society a more positive climate, amazing. Today we have a reverse situation, unfortunately, but also fortunately. Unfortunately, by opening up the European labour market, every man is allowed to go where he will earn better, where he will feel better. It didn't work out like that. It used to go different, limited, today it can. People are definitely leaving, too, because they will get better pay, because they will be more respected there, because they will be treated better, because they will earn and secure a pension and that is the problem that Croatian employers are facing today. And that is why today we can hear the cries of Croatian employers, businessmen who say we are losing our workforce. I'm going to repeat here what I've been repeating all along, for a year now, and I think it's a government task in the future with stronger efforts that might begin to restore more positive trends and climate in a society that is very important and important. Given these positive shifts that we have and which are mentioned in the report of the Prime Minister, I think we should simply not lose another moment, and if we don't focus on a person as much as possible, according to the creation of conditions for greater and better incomes, because that way people will be of course and more appreciated, they will be more socially secure, they will even be able to raise loans, they will be able to benefit from various subsidies and will remain here. And that's a message I want to send to the Prime Minister and ask you to simply force the ministers to work harder, to give more of themselves and to find solutions and ways to create conditions and find the prescriptions to raise salaries in a way that does not choke employers. This can already be solved in part in this ongoing tax reform, it can be resolved by changes and additions and some other laws, but the message is heading in the direction, first of all, to those who need it most. Let's turn to those people, those 500,000 who have received below 5,000 kuna. Let's get out of here. I am convinced that if we start from there, if we start from that group and categories of people, that this one atmosphere in society will start to spin, that simply this climate will be better, that it will be better for entrepreneurs, that in the end it will also result in leaving a larger number of people with us and, of course, by starting all those economic branches that are tied to that kind of thing. So as I said, our club supports this report, we have to say that there are really good positive shifts, that there are good trends and that now we need to push even harder and turn towards man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96616	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Robert Jankovics will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96617	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, the esteemed State Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this extensive report by our Prime Minister, of course, in a 57-minute report, anyone can find something that's good for him, something that's bad for him. However, if we stick to the topic, if we stick to what is the point of the agenda, we can see that we are slightly less than 2 years, here next week will be 2 years since the government's programme was adopted, which was then voted by 91 MPs in this Croatian Parliament, that we passed 266 laws that went towards implementation, so this programme of the Government, which was then achieved by a very large majority in this House. And if we start to analyze what we wrote back then, what we want to do in these four years, then it was the HDZ coalition, the Most, the National Minorities' representatives and the Labour and Solidarity Party, the Reformist with the support of the then HSS. So we adopted a government programme that meant the implementation of things listed in them in case the circumstances supported it. However, I must remind the entire Croatian public that in these years and something, we have had a situation where we had little things going on, that is, this is the Government, and together this Parliament was forced to deal with things that no one had solved for 20 years. And these circumstances that made us count them partly, so Agrokor, shipyards, tax pension health reform, educational reform, political circumstances called coalition breakdown, local elections, external circumstances. Don't forget that we don't live alone, we're not an island in this world, circumstances called the EU, Brexit, the migration crisis, and in the end only in this House were five requests for the recall of ministers from this government. We've been dealing with fires, floods, I guess everything that could have happened in these two years. In these circumstances and when we look at the whole picture, so under these circumstances this government has resulted in a report by the president that our club will clearly support, it is real, life and the best we could do in this time. Since the item of the agenda is therefore the report for the past year at the club, we consider it important to highlight 6 points that we are particularly proud of, so it is primarily macroeconomic indicators that speak of GDP growing in this country, we can agree that it is not enough, but it is going forward and will be better. So the cut from the excessive deficit procedure provides this country with the possibility of obtaining money under more favourable conditions. And exactly what the opposition criticises is how much we spend on interest is exactly saving, or rational business, a rational distribution of funds as a cause of 2017 that we could get out of the excessive deficit procedure, which means that the surplus of the state budget will, in this year as the prime minister said it, but I also believe that at the end of the year will be bigger and bigger, i.e. that it will result in a further reduction of public debt we will come to, hopefully, by the end of this term and perhaps even before then in a stage where we can have a rating that is meant by credit. Of course, that means that we've been doing things that are in this government's program, it means that we've made good decisions all together, first of all the government and then all of us together, and that's, of course, what it means to say here is that we have one capable finance minister. So the tax reform that the finance minister is pushing and which has passed on both the Finance Committee and this House in the first reading, it is clear that we cannot solve all economic problems, but we can create better conditions, that is, conditions that are closer to those in the surrounding countries, and thus I believe that by attracting additional investors, we can get into a situation so that we have an increasing number of investments and thus GDP growth. So, apart from the macroeconomic indicators in this report, I would particularly point out the employment part. So employment, an increase in employment by 71 thousand employees compared to last year, is indeed an extraordinary data. We are proud of him, he is the result of the ever-increasing use of funds from EU funds and of growing macroeconomic indicators. The reduction of the number of unemployed from 350 to 130,000 in two years is also a good indicator, it is not the result of self-employment of 70,000 new ones but is the result as we all know it, but it is one of the consequences of joining the EU, we can only hope that some of our citizens will decide once and return to how they once made that difficult decision to go. What we are particularly happy about in the employment segment is therefore reducing youth unemployment from 49% to 25% within a relatively short period of time. So these are the data on which we can base something we call the future, something we call if we're just going to look at in a short time, these are the next two years until the end of the term. As for the third segment we can be proud of, therefore, is the use of EU funds. Of course, when I say that 60% or what the prime minister said is 60% of the funds, it doesn't mean that those funds are paid. However, this gives hope that from 9% of 2016 to 60% of the agreed funds 2018, it gives encouragement that we will use a very large percentage by the end of this budget period. What I am personally particularly happy with, because a good part of this means, goes through counsel for Slavonia, Baranja and Srem, into that most underdeveloped part of this country that has suffered so much that we can be here today. In addition to the macroeconomic indicator of employment use of EU funds, we believe that social measures, such as an increase in pensions by 6% on average that we have achieved in this mandate so far, increase in minimum wages twice 5%, i.e., the case of solidarity, in a way that we have succeeded, by different measures, which the state could influence either local self-government here and there, therefore, at a reduction in the number, respectively, by halfing the number of blocked. So, that's the same thing, although we hear a lot of complaints in the club about the question, well why you send them away, and why we paid for it, but one dose of solidarity in this society has to exist, and I think that there's a government and what we see in this report has done correctly. Five things, indeed energy independence, especially since we have managed to provide significant support from EU funds for the LNG terminal through the capacity of this government. So, we'll have energy independence, and if we didn't pay for it ourselves, we'll be something, and thus we'll ensure diversification of energy supply throughout Central Europe continues to be the position of mid-European energy entities, and I think it's the same thing that we have to praise this way, and 600 such a little thing remains for 600 that is Agrokor, Agrokor who systematically threatened to collapse the Croatian economy, a year ago and something, so it was solved in a way that we can really look at, repeat each one of them under the increase and find faults in that system, however, the whole picture before in April 2017 said don't cost it... from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The headlines were then, you will pay this many billions, so many billions of Croatian entrepreneurs will pay for it. This was not paid by Croatian taxpayers even many times mentioned advisers were paid from the operations of Agrokor, it is something that in this programme the government we couldn't prepare in 2016, so that's something that came to us in the meantime, we did the best we could, all together, the first diameter, and then all together, who supported it. This is what I consider Agrokor, i.e. the restructuring of Agrokor, i.e. the entire Croatian economy without the consequences of a known bankruptcy or collapse and one of the biggest results of this government and therefore, it gives hope that all these macroeconomic indicators will continue to grow. When we talk about things, where we think at the club, that maybe this government could be braver, first of all, it's demographics, we've had a lot of conversations, how, what we suggest, how to do one of the measures, other than what we could do or what we're going to do in rebalancing, is therefore, an increase in maternity benefits, and I think maybe we could be braver in the budget for the next year, so we could think about free textbooks for elementary schools in the whole country. We consider it a measure that, I do not understand that it is expensive, however, it is not as expensive as helping parents, and most potentially, therefore, the works of our country, which are parents with school children, whose September nightmare is precisely because of books. Maybe this is a good time to think about it. Another thing where the government can be braver, which is a planned VAT reduction from, and general VAT rates from 25% to 24%. We had here and 10 days ago a very useful, diverse, reasoned, unlike many circumstances before that, a reasoned discussion on the Finance Committee, at this House, when this law came to first reading, I said so, because if the motive was to save those 600 million kn, for the citizens from 25 to 24% of the general VAT rate, we have fear, a very large percentage of the representatives in this House, there is a fear that our residents will not feel it because we fear that this 1% of the reductions that will mean a serious deficit in the state budget will actually turn traders into bigger margins and that prices will not be reduced. If the political message so far has been that we have achieved the successes that the diameter has listed, that we are sectorally reducing VAT where we can help the most sensitive and most potential, in some way, part of the citizens, then perhaps we should consider that if we have an excess of one billion and 600 more predictable in 2020, it is not a reduction in the overall VAT rate but a sectoral VAT reduction. I, too, as a representative of the Hungarian national minority here, as my friend Mr. Radin did, felt the need to thank the Prime Minister Plenkovic for taking the lead in protecting human rights in this country, as regards the referendum and other matters that are important for this country to remain normal, that this country remains equally good for all its inhabitants. What I can guarantee is that as a representative of the Hungarian minority in the Croatian Parliament, I will do everything I can to make sure that the rights of the Croatian minority in Hungary go forward and be as good as possible, and that as we Hungarians in Croatia feel good, we feel at home, that this same principle of reciprocity applies more significantly to the Croatians in Hungary. To go back to another moment, which we talked a lot about at the club this morning, so, absolutely support the Prime Minister and his team, to do what can be done about, I can't say the prevention, but preventing the continuation of this political violence to the Croats in BIH, where the nominal representative of the person for whom the Croats did not vote there, therefore, is totally unacceptable in our club, and the diameter absolutely supports it, to do what it can and that we need advisors who are a little stronger than us, who are currently in Europe, in the world at least, do not show excessive interest. But if we repeat the truth long enough, it will likely be recognized beyond Croatia. And then it will be a significant support for the Croatian people in BIH. Mr. President also once again thank you for being with us in the White Manastir, it is a very good message for Hungarians in Croatia, it is very good and it has been deeply torn down and I think it was a good idea from the beginning to the end and determinedly carried out. What we want you on behalf of the club to be still brave, this club has been and will be a factor of the stability of this government, we have never destroyed, we have always built, in this direction we will continue and we want this programme of government that we adopted with the great majority of 2016, in the next 2 years we spend, in this we will have our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96618	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96619	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this annual report and a little bit of a turn around and let's all look together, we're actually exactly how the report is and how it is and so are we in the Parliament today. We've been arguing all day, first the prime minister said what he thought for an hour, then everyone on behalf of his club said what he thought and nobody listened to anyone. No one listens to anyone, no one cares what others say, those who are ruling support the prime minister, those who are in opposition say what is wrong. In his 60-minute presentation, the prime minister mentioned railways three times. Now we're all acting and it's, I'm thinking in pictures, and to me it's a picture display, the railroads are two parallel tracks, everyone's made their own route, don't God forbid you go one piece of the same route or meet somewhere, it's absolutely impossible. In railway lines, it is possible but obviously not here because the report, the way we refer to this report, the inability to give replicas, the inability to interact with each other, is not really the development of democracy and is not the development of society, but the situation in place and step back, and when we look a little bit more closely at this report in the work of the government, in the past year, with all due respect to the Prime Minister, we have a list of beautiful desires and therefore started projects and reforms sound good on paper, one of us can do a little different articulation, someone a little more calmer, someone with emotion, our prime minister has this very moderate way, and then he's actually speaking moderately, but there aren't any lists and there't any reports that would be the result of serious work. Every country that wants to move forward, every country that wants to make a step, every country that wants to do better for its citizens, faces several problems. One of these problems is health care, another problem is education, the third problem is taxes, the fourth problem is certain types of pension reform. So we are not the exception to the climate in which we live or in the EU, but let's see what is in relation to these so-called. Your Mr. Prime Minister, reforms made. There is no "r" from the reform either. To be honest with you, we didn't expect anything else. You can't expect anything else from a government run by a party that has so far raised hundreds of thousands of direct clients by providing them with all kinds of material privileges, from privileged status to jobs at the state's manger, can't be reformal. Take a look at the laws that come to us in Parliament, you read one story, we read from these laws the establishment of new offices, on the one hand you close, on the other hand you open new offices, new bodies where there will be new employment. So on the one hand, it's as if the tap is closing, but on the other hand you haven't controlled the water supply to that pipe and there it leaks that it's inexplicable. It is hard that the parliamentary majority that is in the Assembly at this time and we have to admit that, even though it is a little bit more to the right, it can make a certain step and the mother can make certain reforms for the simple reason that it is a commercial and blackmailing majority, and it is like a glue that holds firmly, and once it falls apart, there is no universal glue that will put it together. When we talk about the pension insurance system, not with the best will and desire, we can't and can't call it reform. The extension of the working age, the stronger the punishment of early retirement will not give a single answer to the question from where we will be paying our pensions in the future. That's what "holds the water until the masters leave", while the masters are there, we'll do it all, during me don't be... And behind what happens, I don't care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One serious government in Croatia, one serious Prime Minister must have a vision and have an idea and must get a much wider support of which is 78, 79 or how many hands in the Parliament you have made. We need to know what kind of Croatia we want in 2050, and what we're setting up now, we need to set up for that Croatia. And give an answer to what is in the future, what is Croatia and where we are going. To get back to the pension insurance system. The topic of the second pillar has only forced additional fear into the bones, we in these areas that we live, we have experiences that speak next. Whenever the state has taken something under its control, the citizens have no longer seen it, and so we understand until the end, because of the weak demographic image, the poor attitude towards the number of people who are retired and the older population, the answer to the question of where we will receive pensions in the future is not easy to give, but what you call reform is really too optimistic. We return to taxes a little bit, a country that wants to be a friend, not to its citizens, who wants to be a friend to some others who will come to work in this country, so you and I listen to the media, we read and now it shows that we need a new number, to open a new number of jobs, or to fill jobs not only in some things like construction, such as certain service activities, but also what we all swear that we do well, tourism and tourism workers say next year we will not be able to work if we do not fill certain jobs. And when you ask the entrepreneurs a little bit then they say give us a stable tax policy that it lasts for a while and this government goes on with taxes, make so-called. reform, then call it a mini reform, then it develops in a few cycles, and in fact what does it all come down to? It comes down to spilling from hollow to empty. We reduce on the one hand, but on the other hand, the contribution to health has increased, and what effect will that have? Not at all. It's nothing but a different display of the same numbers. Therefore, the Prime Minister is not a reform of any kind. Speaking of contributions to health care and reform, the system most cry out for them is our health care. Unfortunately, you've done nothing or what I'd say worse, you've done further damage and chaos. The minister you've chosen as the resort has proved to be absolutely unaccompanied to the task, which regularly proves. Well, he finally proved it today. It's the minister who came in at half past ten, sat there at the end of the line so he didn't know why he came and why he sat down and then President of the Parliament told him that he was a little early, that his theme was only tomorrow afternoon, so the minister went back and as opposed to the Prime Minister who is now entertained by his colleagues, his ministers sitting there, he was sitting there, he didn't know exactly what it was about, a little bit as things were developing he saw that it wasn't really about him. I really needed to tell Minister Kujundzic the most decent thing I could say, you're up Thursday afternoon, now it's not your topic. And that's the minister who should be in charge of handling the health situation. And now we have a so-called. The third to God's reform, it's educational. It's already been said of her. Out of a whole, thoughtful project that should allow young people modern and quality education, there is nothing left but a fragmented skeleton. And now I don't even know what to call it, you give her a pretentious name of school for life, and we all pretend together that this, among other things, I have to say that today in the paper there was a topic, actually a problem of the mental health of young people in Croatia, and then it's said that the unquality mental health of young people in Croatia will result in unquality mental health of adults, and it was based on the story that we have cases that after 4 years some of the young people didn't go out, but are behind the games. I often have a feeling, and when it comes to this reform and something else that our Prime Minister, our ministers are sitting at home or sitting in ministries for their four walls, playing games and thinking it's real life, and real life is somewhere else. In real life when the school started there were no pills, there were no textbooks, and the teachers didn't get the quality preparation for it. And I would say, in fact, sarcastically, it's a really good name of school for life, and that's where children are immediately prepared that in life it's going to be just like that, that they're going to be promised something, and of what's promised from a table, it's going to be 5, but none of us want our kids to have it, none of us really want it to be that way. I have to say that you really feel, you're embarrassed by some statements that you have nothing to do with, you're embarrassed that when you look at something from the ruling who says you have to look away and look down because you simply can't believe that you believe your own ears. When someone says that the problem is that professors of history or biology are going to get a little reorganized, they're going to requalified a little bit, so they're going to do something else. Well, I don't know if it's occurred to anyone to come in here and tell them, so you're going to get a little overqualified, and you're going to be working as a cardio surgeon from next year, so I'm just wondering who would go there? Let's get serious, let's see where we are, and let's see what we can do to make sure that doesn't happen. When it comes to the economy, the economy is a story to itself. Behind you, Prime Minister of the Great Success of Agrokor, the growing tails of the Borg affair in which details of the Croatian public have not yet received insight and who knows what else we will know about how your government has continued along well-studden paths of partner capitalism and the division of prey in the narrow circles of friends. All the good old HDZ practices that led us exactly where we are at the beginning of the EU, looking back at all those who 30 years ago dreamed of our standard and not Mr Plenkovic and not thinking about African countries, we are exactly at the beginning for the simple reason that we pretend that there are no problems and then I don't know whether it was conscious or deliberate to say the system companies didn't enter the Oil or 3 May and that's the theme of sticking their heads into the sand. Or it's even simpler to say, when you have a lot of problems, then you put them under the carpet, because you don't see them, and then you think no one else has seen them. But when there are many of these problems, you get up and fall on your nose. When it comes to falling on your nose, Mr. Prime Minister, did you buy INA from Hungary? Because if that's why you support Orban and his policy at the highest level, because you're not. The smooth Europeans, they like to take pictures with Mrs. Angela Merkel, and they don't vote for Orban. We don't have to tell you that from the Group of Liberals, we don't have to interpret it to you. It's enough to ask your colleagues from the group of cracks. Croatia has no other word for it, shamed itself with this support and settled in society for which, after all, you like to say that it is not ours or at least not yours. Why are we surprised at the results of the election in BIHI? We don't need to be surprised, it's the work and your government. Support for the wrong people and the wrong solutions, so our countrymen, in the neighbouring country, although at least in 3 people, are now further denied and weakened. I'm surprised that all together, and you and the President of Parliament and our president, you came from diplomatic waters, but as far as I can remember, I can't remember a government that ran this invisible foreign policy. So the absolutely legitimate question is whether we have any foreign policy at all. I don't mind if my colleagues go outside and continue the debate outside. [[Agreement: We can silence our colleagues a little, so that colleague Dark Tarritash can speak.]] I don't mind, they don't have to listen to me at all, they can be extremely boring, so get out, keep arguing outside, and all right, all right. So the question is whether we have any foreign policy at all or just wrong moves and honest reactions that we hear about occasionally. Mr Plenkovic, all the levels of your government's unhappiness are best seen, when a man reads her program, stable and lasting economic growth with new and quality jobs, in Germany perhaps, here with us minus. Stopping and moving demographic reconstructions, demographic reconstruction, minus, social justice and stability minus, overcoming social divisions minus, strengthening international credibility and roles of the Republic of Croatia in the world minus, education, economy, agriculture, state property, taxes, whatever small or large chapter it is in your government's programme, minus. In three words, you didn't do anything. For whatever you're doing, make your goals, analyze the current situation, do a hodogram and... So whether you quarterlyally give half-yearly or annually, you control the results of your work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it can be qualified as one big minus. It is not surprising, obviously you have not been able to do other things, because every civilised state operates on its own institutions and without wanting to talk about SMS, it is clear when everyone reads, opens portals, reads the media, and sees that institutions in Croatia are not in the function of citizens, but in the function of one selected group. And then every time the answer, let the institutions do their job, and... They're going to put our diameter to sleep because I'm going to start talking like that, let the institutions do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, for the end, there is one thing, where above the sick bed everything in red, it is the emigration of our fellow citizens who no longer try, after completing college stay in Croatia, and do not try to get a job in Croatia, they bought suitcases, look, in the windows you have several types of suitcases, it obviously best to go and leave Croatia. Not because they can't get a job, not because they have low wages, but because they don't want to live here. The key question, who will remain to turn off the light. It's just a matter of how fast, but that's what we all have to do together, once the light goes out, everything I've been saying about the economy, about pension reform, about health reform, it won't matter. And we absolutely support all those measures that say that we're going to increase the family's intentions, that we're going to increase child compensation, that there's going to be kindergartens in two shifts, all that's good, but that's not a solution. The solution is to restore faith and hope that it will be better. And while we won't return it to our speeches, to our speeches in the Parliament, where we've already spoken for four and five hours, it must be felt. People must feel that it is better in this country and that it will be better in this country. And regardless of all the words, our fellow citizens don't feel it, and until they feel it, people will be leaving the country, and we will be able to talk here for hours, without the final result, and the final result of this government is one big minus for all the topics we have in the program where we discussed and had the opportunity to see it two years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96620	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96621	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate was about the Prime Minister's Annual Report on the work of the government, but it could be heard from debates by clubs that this was more a debate on state authority than on the state's own and on the functioning of the state as a whole than just a debate on government work over the past year. It's usually the way it is, it's not the first time, and I believe it won't be the last. In fact, neither can we here in the House be alluded to by a certain part of the responsibility as to that legislative part as a legislative body from what the Government is doing. The Parliament is making laws. What I also want to say is, there have been a lot of speeches about the judicial authority as a third shareholder of the state government. Yes, the Parliament is questioning, has a once-a-year report on the work of the judicial authority. Well, then, it will be an opportunity for those who have referred here to both that and that third lever of the state government to be able to make very clear what they're saying here today. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will briefly look back at the government's work over the past year with an emphasis on that part of the portfolio for which the HNS is responsible, reminding briefly why more than a year ago we entered the coalition, entered the government, for primarily political stability, I will dare say a saved and accelerated withdrawal of European money by projections of more than 15 billion kuna. We gave a political framework for the adoption and implementation of educational reform, this year an experimental phase in 2019 educational reform in all schools. Reform of vocational education, means training staff for labour market needs, higher education never again of European money withdrawn for programmes, projects, for the first time STEM scholarships, over 8,000 scholarships for higher education students. Building loans for young people, continued POS construction, energy recovery of the public sector, public buildings, we believe from next year on family houses as announced. And as a partner we have succeeded, I consider it a success of the government, but primarily since it was our initiative and in previous governments, funding local self-government by estimates somewhere over 40 million more revenue to JLS, but not as it has been so many times distorted here that leaders could spend rather than for the benefit of the citizens. Every responsible, rational leader of local self-government used that money for the benefit of the citizens themselves. The law on state property management, our intensities of state property availability was implemented through that law. As for human rights and freedoms of the Istanbul Convention, the fact is that there are still a lot of challenges in this area that I am convinced, Prime Minister, in the next two years, that we will successfully address. Many times you mentioned a favourable business environment and we all thought only about the economy, attracting investors, investing. I dare say more domicile, domestic than foreign. However, a favourable business environment you know very well is not exclusively closely related or conditioned by the state of the economy, especially in the state of Croatia. As far as the economy itself is concerned, I mentioned a step forward of vocational education. I mean, over 6.7 billion in the last year and a half to two days, and, of course, there's an open space for salary increases. We need to clear ourselves up, with ourselves, and there are us here and here in the assembly that we may not understand, or in political interests, we are saying the opposite, the state is not building factories, the state is not opening jobs. The role of the country is to create assumptions for a stable development of the economy. And the Constitution itself very clearly, we know what it says if we read it by many, it means market economy. Tax laws, I'll be so free to say when the budget for 2017 was critical of the budget for 2017 Minister Marić said he was conservative, but these tax reforms, looking at the numbering tax discharge, this is more than liberal. And as a liberal, I wouldn't dare relax so much the revenue side of the budget just thinking about not giving God a very hard time removing something, some tax, some giving, unburdening what we absolutely support but I'm afraid there will come a period when certain impositions will have to come back but let it go. Suffice 2.7 billion he gives me somehow, gives me the confidence that it won't happen and that's one of the dilemmas that I had about these tax laws and we at the HNS club, even though we're in favour of tax redundancies of the economy, to raise salaries to workers. However, what is also important to us, which is important and what we need to advocate, is a socially responsible economy. We have witnessed, not in the past year, but the flow of loneliness, the formation of the Croatian state, that there was enough economy to call it, more than irresponsible not only against the state but also against the employees, or citizens. What is also not a criticism but to remind ourselves of some things, we remember periods when the unemployment rate is very high, now practically an economy and businessmen are faced with another moment, at a time when labour shortages are lacking. Absolutely yes, to flexibilize labour legislation and this direction in which it is going, more than positively, but I find it insufficient. As early as two years ago in one meeting, I have pointed out the number of 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia since 50, it was also in the media, aged 55 to 64, which are not in any records and are not even on the labour market, so I wonder if the businessmen see that potential? I suppose the state has the will, has the intention of a large number of these people we can't expect, depending on the physical strength, on the health condition, but I believe that one large number of these people can enter the labour market, that's potential. With all due respect to the economics, they come forward when they're pinched. According to some logic, they are asking the state to do so and, with full right, however, it is also not a moduso to Alimentate from part of the responsibility that during the high unemployment rate they did not particularly consider regarding vocational education, and we know very well, in 2009 at local level, we launched targeted training of staff for the needs of the host economy. And that's when some people came forward who are more than successful today. Gentlemen, businessmen, strategically plan, think strategically, I believe you have business plans not for next year but projections must be more than long-term. And you'll certainly have support in HNS, you've always had it, you'll have it in the future, but I also believe in the government's support. In front of this government as well as in front of all of us, and I'm also saying what we see in the HNS club, the challenges that are ahead of us, where there's even more than enough room to be better, more efficient, more quality, more efficient. Equally regional development, this is a process. How to reduce the differences in the development of individual areas by looking at income per capita, looking at the incomes of local self-government per capita, looking at the standard and looking at a number of other parameters that are partly, only partially through the indexation of development, that is a major problem, but also a process that lasts and that will last. In line with this, parallel expectations are also decentralisation. We are faced today with examples of certain local self-governments that do not have, not only do we dream of questionable fiscal capacity, given the changes to the law on funding, we are all in some way those who were below 1900 kn, municipalities and cities 2500, now we are in some way at some level able to work normally, breathe to function, but the middle legs still do not meet the elemental things for the benefit and what the law owes to the benefit of their citizens is the problem, in which direction decentralisation is. Also, if and certainly there, the state should not only be a mediator to mediate in part of the local, regional and ministry levels but to be a crucial factor d simply through decentralisation these things are being resolved. When we talk about reforms, many say that these are not reforms, this is more the question you would say is perceptions of not the meaning and the root words. Generally it's a rule in the Republic of Croatia that we're all for reform but not over my back. Or don't go to my place, go there, etc. That's what criticises the government and so does we. Likewise to all of us here, we haven't all done enough, each of us in our midst to work on the perception that we're getting with it. Every reform is painful, each reform requires time and a measurable, very small number of reforms are measurable in the next, one, two or three years. Health reform, yes, problem. It is commendable that it is investing in energy recovery, however what is a general problem, the state defines the budget, founders manage, who manages the hospital, are the founders of the county. So also to the homes of health, I think that there should be more work on mutual trust in reality and also n rationalization of the hospital system, I believe there is more than room for rationalisation within the system but not at the expense of patients, i.e.. citizens who need health care. Peace reform, yes, it's ahead of us. A lot of challenges, there's no magic formula that can be cut, cut off, and yet we're all satisfied, it just doesn't exist. I believe that the discussions that are ahead of us and this public consultation will receive satisfaction, that is, with the ultimate objective of seeking pension reform, will only be sustainable over a certain period of time, for a certain period of time when it is realistically possible. And we can't simply rule out that even in the future state they're going to have to plant their backs through the pension payout budget. One of the burning problems, and it is in the government's jurisdiction, as well as the Parliament, the public administration. I'll try a simple dictionary. You'll all understand me, not just modernize, but deburocratize. Because the biggest problem, it comes out, and we're facing, every day, from local, regional, especially national levels, public administrations, equally bureaucrats, unfortunately. There are positive examples, there are brighter examples, so through the change of legislative frameworks, through the revision of regulations, through modernization, what you said to the Prime Minister, through the change of technology, certain technological processes, I think it can be done over the next two years, a very high-quality step. Just so that the functioning, in order for the public administration to be more operational and efficient, would be what is ultimately the goal. The HNS will support this report, with all these remarks, thoughts of knowledge. We will continue to be those who advocate dialogue, exclusion, ideological division, we have left behind, we do not live in the past. And, Prime Minister, we at the HNS Club will not look left or right, but forwards for better and better quality Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96622	Thank you very much. Two colleagues have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, and here's a second-in-command, a colleague of Grumoja's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96623	Dear Vice President, my colleague Batinic has been injured by an article. In 238, he began his presentation with a review of the presentation of his colleagues and said that we should not discuss the judicial system here, because this is the government's report, and who posted it. The state's attorney, who put people in the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, who controls the entire justice system? We've had a case to ask the Prime Minister a question, that he announces, that criminal charges be dismissed, which man has not yet been given a solution Tomorrow at 1 o'clock here in the Croatian Parliament,... [[I take away your word.]] Damir Sabelak diplomat [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] will state the facts, which show that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are hiding the illegal spending of money, and I will share the finding of a state audit that he does not respect. [[Intruder Reiner: I take away your word until the end of this point.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96624	Comrade Grmoy, please stop and do not continue to violate the Rules of Procedure. ... Comrade Grmoy, please behave properly in the Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Grmoya Intruder: And you are in this too, Mrs Pusic, and that is why it bothers you, is being protected by Andrej Plenkovic.]] This is the Croatian Parliament, if you didn't know. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96625	Thank you very much. 238nd fellow Batinić spoke and offended some of the MPs, who were civil servants, speaking about them and the diameter, saying that bureaucrats and those who did nothing, which is his position, but it is interesting that it comes from the person and from the party who has betrayed its voters because of the 2-3 chair directorship in JANAF and some other public enterprises, they have issued their voters, and he calls there colleagues and colleagues who are in state services, so I am asking you to share the warning to Mr Batinća Why would you give me a warning? [[I'll give you a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96626	I'm giving you a warning, because you know very well that it's not a violation of the rules of procedure, which my colleague used to say... He didn't insult anyone, he spoke much softer than many others here, so he didn't insult anyone at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Maras: So it can offend the diameter and other MPs, who were the officials?]] Okay. Now we're going to move on with this point, so on behalf of... Let's stop with all that bickering, the guy with the false violations of the Rules of Procedure, there's no need. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96627	If you'll excuse me, I just wanted to do it again to my colleagues, Grumoja and Marasa. Okay, you heard the angle. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, don't, don't, you can't, you can't, you know you were alone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96628	You were the Vice-President of the Parliament yourself. Don't break the Rules of Procedure, please. Now the final word will be given to the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96629	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've got half an hour, haven't I? A joke, a joke, a joke, a joke, a joke, a joke. [[Intruder Reiner: 20 minutes.]] Thank you very much, for today's debate, to analyse the situation in Croatia, the government's report over the past year, and I think with this report, together with all the members and members of the government, this report, as a collective body, wanted to give you and the Croatian public the state in all possible resolutions, in all sectors, to touch all relevant political and social issues. This report is complete, and I hope that both the public and the media will be able to read it and see more in detail one important distinction on which I had the opportunity in a brief conversation with Mr. Maras. It's the difference between facts and the atmosphere. There's not a single sentence in that report that's actually incorrect. That is what is important, and that is what is important in my court, most important for the Croatian public and for the seriousness of the work of Croatian insinuations and Croatian governments. As for the comments of the assembly clubs, of course, I thank those who have constructively supported this report and pointed to what should be better and faster and those who disagree with this report, who have other views, who are opposition, who think that there is absolutely nothing in what the government is doing, so neither in all these concrete numbers, measures, laws, all of what we have done over the past two years is worth anything. If you have such an attitude I will respect it, I will not refuse it with disgust as some club representatives here, but I will respect it and consider why. I will think about it in a way that I can see what we can do to improve, how we can improve our messages, our good will, our engagement, our desire for people in Croatia to live better operationalise to concrete measures of what the government is doing. And I think that on that trail and that approach based on the triangle that I have highlighted, which is the continuation of fiscal consolidation that is the prerequisite for healthy economic growth, this government will persist. I can already say that if we absorb a shipbuilding crisis that might disrupt our plans a little bit when it comes to surpluses in the budget, so in surplus, that our surplus in this year should be even bigger than it was last year, and that's a lot of different trends, people remember it, people see it, people remember it, look at numbers, understand what it means if you spend less than you do. It means that you are responsible, that you are not some wastelander and that you want to reduce the years of accumulated debt, increase credit ratings, reduce interest rates and on government debt in international financial markets, and then, accordingly, reduce interest rates on loans taken by citizens or entrepreneurs. All of this has its own clear sequence and it's all very connected and there's no dilemma that we're going to endure. Structural reforms, the second part of that triangle, are the most important. Do they seem so epochal to you that every legislative proposal must overwrite everything that has been going on in the last 30 years or that it is going to improve, correct, correct, monitor Europe's global trends, try to organise financially many, very complex sectors to be sustainable, whether it is about health care, whether it is about the pension system, whether it is about education, whether it is about justice, administration, a better business environment, all of which is part of our national reform programme, while we are here right now and the European Commission's delegation is talking to all the resolutions at a professional level and watching us progress in the national reform programme. When this debate is over, all ministers will come to the government after the co-ordination to create a legislative plan for the remaining 3 months with a fairly large number of laws that the government will refer to in the Croatian Parliament. All these structural reforms aim to make a change that is better than what it is today, which is about what we promised in our programme and which will ultimately get the effects. It is our job to gain as much support as possible for what we do, mostly Croatian citizens and the Croatian public, we cannot have all the support of the opposition, on the contrary. According to some of your opinions, your messages that you sent today, I wouldn't even like to have such support because then it would mean that we share perhaps some of the more difficult ideas and some of the ideas that you've put out here, which are lax, casual, unverified, wrong, based on not even a single file, I would say, but that's the case. It is part of democracy and with such a way of communicating, and even on such large topics we will deal with and show the difference who is who. So the whole political game here is based on a very simple message that Croatian public and Croatian citizens get a good idea of who, when and how to trust. I'm only going to look back on two specific topics that seem important to me. One is the shipbuilding and the question of the Oilers and the Third May. I was just looking today, assuming that some of the opposition clubs would raise that topic, I asked for some data to see how many state guarantees were given to the Oilman for example in 2015. Here I was, looking at over 260 million euros, only in 2015 did the state give the election year before the elections to Uljanik. We gave the Oilman a guarantee, it knows very well the representative Miletic and the mayor of Pula in January this year of 96m euros. We gave it on condition that Uljannik also made a restructuring plan and found a strategic partner and thanks to those 96m euros, Mayor Miletic, living and workers in Uljannik and workers in May 3rd for the past year and Rijeka and Pula. I didn't have a second dilemma that it was the right decision, nor did it occur to me to look at that question through the optics of decentralisation, through the optics of who was in power and how to react. I am telling you this because our determination to find a sustainable solution to shipbuilding is completely accurate and honest. You were in a meeting with Uljanika and with the administration and with workers and unions and with you and with the mayor, and then we made it clear what the three scenarios were on the table. We didn't leave any dilemmas, we didn't give any false hopes, we know how much we invested through state aid shipbuilding, and I mentioned it today, 31 and a half billion all these 28 years, that's about all the salaries of all the people in all the shipyards all these years. It's your facts, it's not my decision or yours. This is the total amount of state support, guarantees and all that has been given in the last 28 years. And it says that we gave our hand, stretched out. The restructuring plan, a strategic partner, a strategic partner found management, was not found by the government. The restructuring plan worked with the management they elected, we did not find them, the communication we spoke to them for several months later, when the European Commission's findings came, they were practically identical to what they said to the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, recognized the problems, saw where the difficulties existed. We realized that there are others who are interested in helping as potential strategic partners, either in the Uljanika group, or just 3. May or possibly just an oil man. And those conversations are being held, they're being led because we're looking for a solution. It is not in anyone's interest that 4.5 thousand people, in cities that are identical to shipbuilding, who are both related to these two huge shipyards and two large business entities that not only form part of the culture, are part of the symbols of these parts of Croatia but are important to us. Let one or two smaller ships be delivered annually to Croatia significantly decrease the numbers in value. There's no intention that you can allow yourself to say that we're going to let the Oilman go bankrupt in order to re-purpose the maritime good or concept of what's called the coast of Pula. That's not what the government does. That's not what anyone who sits in government does. We will look for I hope and with your good will solution and the next days and weeks because these solutions are neither simple nor easy. The shipbuilding crisis has hit many European countries. Others have worked ships in the '80s and earlier, but the globally altered environment has made them think that where they are today, where the shipyards used to be today, we're looking at tech parks, start up. I've been to Gothenburg recently, Kalin, to the conference, wherever there's a conference going on like you're in some industrial architecture, it's mostly about former shipyards. And why is that? China today builds 40% of the world's ships and orders 45%. These are the realities, China, in the first places of shipbuilding either in orders, or in the construction of ships in the '80s there were none. These golden years are no longer here, we are now in a phase where each of our major shipyards, and the fact is there I agree with you The Ulnik has given Croatia a hand in front of EU membership 3. Maya. When it's 3. May was in difficulties Oily was not the only one of all our shipyards compared to Brodosplit and to Brodotrogir and Kraljević. And he helped. However, business has obviously not followed those trends since the past few years. And here we are, with exposure and state guarantees, I think it's a total of over 560 million euros, only I'm talking about Uljannik at this point, and it's big money and it's the money that we as a government have to look at them a little wider, I have to watch what it means for taxpayers in Croatia, which means for other branches of the economy in Croatia. Is that how we open the door to anyone who gets in trouble, knocks on the government door, we need a little pay, we need a supplier, then that's a road without end? Therefore, the solution we are looking for must be sustainable, it must be in line with our laws, with the acquis we have taken, which binds us, with restructuring guidelines that do not exist for us and exist for everyone else at EU level and what we are currently doing, which is that we are trying to find a solution and minimise the costs of what can happen to us. The third element that matters to me with this, here I have highlighted only Oil is the issue of the restructuring of Agrokor. You mentioned a lot here today, you mention it mostly through what DORH rejected or any other insinuations that have already been in public space for months, but you don't mention the bit, you don't mention 30 thousand people who haven't lost their jobs, you don't mention small farmers, you don't mention the OPGs who got everything that the company owed to them, you don't mention small and medium-sized suppliers in Croatia, these are serious employers in Croatia who not only got between 60% and 70% of the old claims compared to similar restructurings, which is amazing when it comes to a retail crisis, it's amazing when you look at a partnership with others but they get time to live on their feet, they've all consolidated. I didn't see a wave of bankruptcy here, it didn't happen. Do you think we wanted to when we came for confidence in the Parliament about two years ago about this time right away in life the first thing we did, it was the restructuring of Agrokor, I don't remember, or that it was in the program, or that we planned it, or that we wanted to. We have been caught in an enormous crisis that would have such an effect on the entire Croatian economy and also on financial stability and tried to shake political stability but we have shown that we can cope, that there are no obstacles or short-term political goals that are more important to us than the general interest of Croatian people, the stability of the economy, the stability of finances and the stability of the state. That was the key, and that's what we did. Is everyone glad that maybe we didn't make it, so it accidentally fell apart, so if I didn't know the political cards got mixed up, maybe someone would be happier then, and he'd blame us if we tried and we didn't make it, and this is how the deal happened, the company works. Everyone in her system works. Ask few people in neighbouring countries what they say about their fears, how they are satisfied with the way that this problem has been solved. Ask a few experts who are doing this, what it looked like on the side, how they have now experienced ex post that such the biggest restructuring has succeeded. It's not a small venture, it's demanding, it's complicated, it could have been done, one 10-year-old with all possible studies, impact assessments, 1000 consultations, 3 readings in the Parliament, all possible openness, which then probably would have been even better. It wouldn't be faster, it might not be on time, maybe until then, like, you remember financial markets, how important every word is, how important every message is, how timid they are, how fast they are in the response to capital withdrawal, the destruction of shares, or the spread of financial destabilisation. It all didn't happen, it didn't happen. And now that we do, we want to be guilty of what we did, okay? If this is the price to be politically guilty, because we have done something economically and financially that is sustainable and that will enable all those who have been linked to the system to recover and change the practice of operating in the Croatian economy from payment deadlines, addictions and not to use other words, well, then we are guilty from your angle. I'll take that guilt and that's okay, but when I get home and think about whether I did good or did bad, given what they were alternatives, I'll be satisfied that I did good and that I believe in what I did with the goal of protecting Croatian interest. No personal interest in any private interest, although we may not be close friends, but we know enough that you can conclude that. As far as the third element is concerned, and that's the most important thing, that's investment. We've been looking at the data now, this year there will be more investment at the annual level than ever in Croatia, that's good. It's good news, it's not just tourism, it's a billion euros in tourism, but it's still billions in other sectors. And that's where the answer lies. There lies the response of the business atmosphere, the investment climate, the reliability of the system, the functioning of the administration, the verticals from the central level, through cities, municipalities, the action of all bodies that must help those who want to invest in Croatia, not go away. There will be new jobs, there we will show that there is no corruption, there we will show, that there are public procurement transparencys, there we will show that the administration works for the general benefit of all Croatian people. And that's why we're going to insist on that third element. If we succeed in that triangle for the next 2 years then Croatia will be better. Then it'll be a nice piece of information, which just came out now while we were sitting there listening to your speeches, that in the first six months. This year we even have more born in Croatia than in the same period last year. Maybe it's up to some of these measures, which we've adopted over the past two years regarding family population and demographic policy. I'm not saying that, but maybe it is, but it's good, maybe it's good, when our young people realize that there's an atmosphere here, where they might use that freedom of movement. There are plenty of you here, not all of you, who believed in the European Croatia, in the EU, the family project, the continental project, that it is good for us. The argument in freedom of movement was one of the main arguments at the time of the referendum debate. Now he's shown himself to us because of the inequality of us and the more developed, that in these first few years he's been a problem to us. And this is no longer emigration and waves, nor from the end of the 1st century. War, not after the 2nd or the '60s. We were in the early '90s. This is another time. It's time for people to gain something, where the system may be better, where their wages are currently higher and to return. I think it's about one trend, which in other countries of Middle Eastern Europe is showing two-way, and that's our goal. This is the goal of leaving, earning, seeing and applying it in Croatia. That's how I look at the situation. And therefore, believing that this debate was also useful for the Croatian public, for Croatian citizens, I thank you all for your criticisms and suggestions. We will work on fulfilling our programme, the best we can, with our knowledge, with effort and with the conviction that we are doing good for Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96630	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras has risen, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I hope it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96631	Why are you putting pressure on me like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96632	I don't do anything, I just hope it's me, not like last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96633	Which is why you doubt that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96634	Because I've had a bad experience since last time with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96635	You have bad criteria, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96637	Please give me my time back. The injury was the 238th Prime Minister saying that we have some delusions and illusions about Agrokor and I ask you to protect us from that kind of communication, because everyone in Croatia, everyone in Croatia, is strange, that someone after 2 days of engagement gets 5 million. So we can't have Mr. Prime Minister explaining to us that it would save a company, a lot of other companies, and that someone made $500 million, that they were the people who helped write the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96638	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96639	If he does not see the problem, the entire Croatian public sees it. And I'm asking you to protect us from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96640	Comrade Maras, you have taken advantage of your time, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you will receive a warning, a second warning, because of your knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. ... If you had knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure and I warned you about it in advance, you did it, here it is, here it is. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, you should behave politely and in accordance with the rules of procedure in the assembly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Lovirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96641	Mr. President, here, you'd ask Mr. diameter about one thing, it's about hiding information, taking advantage of an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96642	No, no, but, fellow Lovrino, we can't talk like that, there was a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96643	There's a report from the Ministry of Finance,... Why are you hiding it, is crime... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And corruption on the subject of the Oily, please respond to the public here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96644	I'm giving you a warning. My colleague Lovrinović, you can't act like one. There is a Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and according to him, we will behave. [[Invadica Lovrinović: So you have done everything possible to make the Rules of Procedure so that on behalf of the citizens we cannot ask anything]] My colleague Lovrinović, I am giving you a second warning. [[Upadica Lovrinović: Here is Mr Plenkovic constantly saying he will fight for institutions to work...]] [[/Invadica Lovrinović: Please tell me what happened to the Uljanika report?]] I will conclude the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are obtained with the hope that we will act parliamentaryly and that we will really respect the Rules of Procedure, not perform in this way by creating an estrada from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government, and we move to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96646	We are now going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. First: The Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of National Minorities Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party and the Club of Representatives of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives, I give the following conclusion: 1. The annual report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be adopted. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be maintained in the annual report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for and 52 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96647	We move to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on protection of work, second reading, P.Z. Number 338. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... Comrade Maras, because you really want me to kick you out? Is that what you want? ... So be nice. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not yelling, but please be polite, it's a matter of home-schooling. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... Can we? Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96648	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act. First of all, I need to stress that the aim of this law is to prevent and prevent injuries to work, as well as to strengthen the system of protection at work and administrative redundancies of the economy. As we all know, protection at work is a process that needs very serious, responsible and continuous management because life and health are values of special social importance that have no price, but have enormous value as recognized in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I am talking about Article 21 and Article 70 so health and life are constitutional categories. Amendments and additions to this law will not affect the reduction of the level of safety and protection of workers' health, but will ensure a certain administrative discharge of employers. The application of labour protection rules is in line with all EU directives on safety and health protection at work. The reason for this proposal, which we discussed during the first reading bill, came from the government's Action Plan for Administrative Disposal of Economy in January 2017, which included issues from the field of protection at work. Therefore, these final changes and additions reduce the frequency of holding committee meetings at work from at least once every 3 months to at least once every 6 months and this is only an obligation for employers who employ over 50 workers, which does not mean that the Committee cannot meet more often if it assesses the need for this. The law prescribes only a minimum, and how many times the committee will meet really depends on specific situations and the nature of the work. Infringement provisions concerning the non-maintainment of regular committee meetings are also complemented. It also reduces the number of trained first-aid workers compared to the total number of workers. So far, it has been one trained on 20 workers, and these changes bring one trained on 50 workers, noting that always at any location of the employer and at any time at least one worker must be trained to provide first aid. It also complements the provision by which the employer must inform all workers. So here, in particular, it should be pointed out that real rationalisation in this regard will happen to employers who operate exclusively in one location. In order to remove the legal uncertainty of the employer, the concept of serious injury at the place of work is left out and the obligation to report events at the place of work which the employer is obliged to report since the non-reportation of such an event is sanctioned as an offence. The significance of the idea is determined immediately, i.e. the moment of reporting the event to inspection supervision if the worker is treated at a health care facility due to a work injury. Therefore, the timing of the application obligation shall be determined immediately after the care of the person for treatment at the health institution. It also reduces the obligation to hold documentation and protection at work at temporary construction sites in relation to the duration of construction works. The deadline for carrying out work of 30 days has been extended to the deadline of 60 days. The provisions of this law do not apply to a craftsman himself, as well as to an employer represented by a single natural person who is also the sole employee of the employer, so only employed persons, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who are the sole employees of that entity are administratively relieved, but thus does not eliminate their right to carry out work protection. However, they are obliged to comply with this law in the event that, together with another person or more of them, they perform works at the same place of work, which is in accordance with Directive 92/57. It should also be noted that the first reading was held on 25 May 2018 and the changes in this reading are the following. Therefore, the provision of Article 4 of the Law, which states that in the performance of specific tasks such as the OS Republic, police, firefighters, pyrotechnicians, etc., protection at work is then governed by specific rules or recognised rules of protection at work, rather than by specific laws. In view of the very nature of the job, the people I have cited or these activities, it is divorceal that they cannot satisfy the first general principle of prevention, which is to avoid risk, because they actually go to risk in their business and face all other activities and jobs where there are no specificities that would be in conflict with the general principles of prevention, of course that the provisions of the rules adopted under the Labour Protection Act apply. It also accepted the suggestion of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives that the rules adopted by the Minister responsible for Health, based on the Labour Protection Act, are related with previous consent rather than with the previous opinion of the Minister responsible for Labour. The proposal of the social partners was also adopted after the 75th session of the Committee on Law, collective negotiations and the protection of the rights of the Economic and Social Council, which further specifies and replaces the term ‘treatment in a health institution’ with the term ‘treatment in a stationary health institution or a daily hospital’ which, in fact, determines the place of treatment more precisely than the classification of health institutions. It should also be said that on 2 August 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded a reduction in the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority including the Institute for the Promotion of Labour Protection, whose establishment and competence is governed by the provisions of Articles 83 to 88. The law. That is why it was necessary to complete the final proposal for this law in order to create a legislative framework for the implementation of the said conclusion. It should be pointed out here that the institution that I mentioned is not abolished, but with due to the rationalization of business, the number of institutions, agencies, etc., and in this case the Office for Improving Work Protection. What does that mean? This means that the Resort Ministry, Ministry of Labour and Pension System will take over all the jobs, all the founding workers, property, writing, equipment and other documentation and means of work, and that there will be no delay in running current jobs or falling quality, but quite the opposite. After the entry into force of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will regulate the internal structure of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in relation to the termination of the work of the Institute and the takeover of its workers into the MRMS system or the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. It should also be noted that from the composition of the National Protection Council in its function, I will express myself in a vivid manner, the waste of the Director of the Institute, since the Institute is going under the auspices of the Ministry and therefore retains the existing number of 7 members of the National Council but in a way that is proposed by the 2 representatives of the Minister responsible for Labour, one representative proposed by the Minister responsible for Health and by two representatives of the employer and two representatives of the workers who propose representative associations of employers and workers of a higher level according to a special regulation. I note that the members of the national council mentioned do not receive any work compensation but only travel expenses if necessary. Here's to the end, I'd just say that the injuries don't happen, they're caused by what this law has and recognized, and that's why, one of the most important objectives and this law is just to prevent and prevent injuries and improve the system of protection at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96649	Thank you very much, we have quite a number of replicas, let's start in order, the first respected representative is Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I've been a parliamentary representative for a long time, but I've never heard a more cynical explanation of a legal proposal in my life. So, you said in the end that the aim of this law is to advance protection at work. I ask you to read me just one article of this law that will make protection at work better, better and more successful. To tell me what model you used to assess the impact of these regulations and savings that you will achieve by administrative redundancies of the economy that will increase the quality of protection at work. So, nowhere, in any article, there is no improvement in the protection of hope in any sentence of this law. I will remind you, the worker died in a cement factory in March 2018, in Vrsar fell off a skeleton in April 2018, three workers died in Chepin during work on sewers in June 2018, every 10 minutes there is one injury. This law needs to be torn apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96651	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96652	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr. Jovanovic, therefore how well you read the law and the reasoning, then you saw that you were working on an action plan to dissipate the economy, is the holder of the Ministry of Economy, there are methods by which this discharge is considered. When we talk about the discharge within this law, they only refer to the Committee on Safety at Work about 180 000 kunas. So everything is very well calculated in the lip, in the decimal and Ministry of Economy that coordinated this first phase of action discharge, it has calculations according to exactly the pre-known methodology, and if you want, I can present it to you and show you how it looks. And when you mentioned the number of persons...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96653	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, I have carefully read the law, listened carefully to your opening argument, I must say that three times in the opening statement you mentioned the administrative discharge of employers and four times the word rationalization. I'm sorry about that because this law is everything but what should be called savings, rationalization and administrative discharge. This law is a law that should take care of the safety of workers in the Republic of Croatia and their health and you have now made, with all these layoffs and restrictions on it, that not only are their health and safety at risk, but they are almost gone and they do not have it. And unfortunately after the adoption of this law, Croatia will no longer be just a country of cheap labour, as our prime minister often says, but also a country where workers are not safe at their workplace and where their health at work is threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96655	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96656	Thank you. Dear Mr. Djujic, if you have listened well, and I believe you have, you have counted the words and then you have been able to count the words of security and improvement, so I will repeat once again, if you have not heard it, the aim of this law is first of all, to prevent and improve the system of protection at work but also to dissipate and rationalise entrepreneurs and I believe that there is nothing against it even though here you have now expressed your dissent. However, what I remained obliged to respond to was precisely the number of injuries reported at work in the Republic of Croatia, in 2017 there were 17 768 of them, of which 14 431 injuries at work exactly as the injury to work occurred on arrival and departure to work grew and amounted to 3 337. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96657	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96658	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, you are now in response to the replica once again saying exactly the opposite of what should be the intensities of this law, meaning parafiscal discharge, reduction of the employer's costs, I ask you, that, as Mr Jovanovic just said earlier, state one measure in relation to the existing law that will allow for the greater safety of workers at work. So that's what we want to hear. We don't want to hear that it's an initiative from the Ministry of Economy because you're here to defend, we don't want to hear that for 180 000, it's probably a lapus, maybe 180 million kunas to cut certain costs to the economy, we want to hear that this law will improve workers' safety at work compared to the existing ones, or how these changes will help. Please tell us one concrete measure that changes in that law that will achieve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96659	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96660	Dear Mr. Maras, here's a very, very specific one. One of the measures is the participation of workers in the risk assessment but also sanctioning if it does not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96661	The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96662	... I apologize, the laughter caught me because what you're saying is the state secretary's biggest nonsense I've heard and I'm sorry that her colleagues sitting next to her don't subfly her a little better explanation because this Labour Protection Act is all that shouldn't have been because what the ministry is proposing now has nothing to do with the improvement because the abolition of the Labour Protection Institute means that Croatia will remain without a roof organisation that deals with protection at work. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] How much does that law cost? 3 million kuna stands out for the Department of Protection and Promotion at work, 2 kuna per worker, that's what you do, so these 2 kunas are something you need to take away from the workers, so how are you not ashamed? Why does HDZ run into the Labour Protection Act? He needs to be promoted, he's not a expense. He's life, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96663	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96664	Dear and esteemed Mr. Mrsic, so I'll remind you that the conclusion that the government has made is not about abolishing and that you read well then you'd see that it's about reducing the number of agencies, funds, etc. If you had read well then you would have seen that it was 54 public institutions of the Institute, etc. and that the Labour Protection Office is not abolished, that they are removed as well as you could read, only two entities, that one is sold and one is put out, everything else, and in this particular case of the Department for Improving Protection at Work, it comes under the hat of the Ministry. If you'd read it correctly, you'd have seen it. ... I think that we here in this High House should talk seriously and responsibly, and that's how I approach. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Both you and everyone here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96665	Thanks, let's not yell from the bench. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96666	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, anyone who comes with the law and the ministry and where there's anything to do with the inspection, I ask a very simple question and in this regard, the prime minister said in his report on the work for the past year today that there will be a large inspectorate and that he will be founded at the end of the year. And so far, I haven't been able to figure out which inspectors are going to go there. So I'm wondering, are the inspectors in the field of labour protection going to stay in your ministry's vault or are they going to go to that big inspectorate? So far, no ministry has told its inspectors that they will go, so I'm curious as to who they will be, but I guess at the end of the year we'll get that law and we'll have a chance to see. So, a very simple question. Inspectors who are from the aspect of protection at work do they remain inspectors within your ministry or do they go to a large inspectorate?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96667	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96668	Dear Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, first of all, I would like to remind you that here the subject is the final proposal for a law on protection of work. What I can say about the inspectorate in our jurisdiction is that during 2017, they carried out 1905 inspections on the notification of injuries on the premises of the employer, of which 1730 controls on the notification of fatal and serious injuries. So, the results of the labour inspectorate are in front of me, I can present them to you, and everything else you asked me is not in any way the subject of the final proposal for a law on protection at work. What I can do on this occasion is our inspectors are doing a very good job, having so-called. a unit available from 0 to 24 all days a week to respond precisely in an emergency and death.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96669	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96670	Dear Secretary of State, I must estimate that this law and the lawmaking process is unfortunately a step back in the achieved level of protection at work in the Republic of Croatia. First, the fact is that the article of the law states that the director, the current director of the Institute, is required within the time limit, after the adoption of this law to put an end to the application for the shut-down of the Labour Protection Office. That means he disappears, and people will join the ministry. We didn't ask the question of people, but the issue of the Institute for the Promotion of Labour Protection as an autonomous institution. You can't say that we're making progress, and what we were supposed to be, we're shutting down our promotions. And in principle, this law is passed and proposed without the consent of the social partners in the Republic of Croatia in the absence of the work of the Economic and Social Council, which is smart enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96671	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96672	Dear Mr. Hrelja, I thank you for asking. So, first of all, I have to point out once again that with regard to the Office for Improving Labour Protection only changes form and quality does not. Quality remains the same, however, we still want to improve that segment. In addition, you asked me about the social partners, what I would like to remind you that since the first reading that all previous opinions have been produced, that five working groups were held from May to September 2017, held two rounds of e-consultation with the interested public, the GSV met on 3.5, were positive opinions with a separate opinion of the NHS. You know for a fact that on 2 August 2018, the government's conclusion was reached, which I spoke of earlier, and based on this, the Ministry agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96673	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96674	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so here I would ask you to really try to explain to me that you are now in this law and the final proposal of the law despite all the remarks that were in the first reading, which relate to the exemption of self-employed persons from the provisions of this law and to the application of the provisions of this law, to explain to me how they must apply, therefore, the provisions must be applied as soon as a man, so someone has a single person, means to a micro-entrepreneur, and to a person who employs himself, therefore, a self-employed person does not apply it, but you have left one consciousness, conscience and your own responsibility that you interpret according to the Constitution? Also, two of these apply to two self-employed people. So explain to me the difference why you're excluding self-employed people?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96675	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96676	So, dear Mrs. Alfirev, as I said in the introduction, because of the decommissioning and the Benefit of the Peacekeeper, we relieve the self-employed persons, or those who are also the only legal person who is in that entity a worker. However, this does not in any way mean how many, that they have exactly one SOR, or a person who has been trained by them and who is with them the law begins to apply to them. So, when one person or more of them works for them so that's exactly the SOR's, it starts to apply to them. And as for the self-employed, that one person, that is, our view that this is a good measure and that it is a good discharge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96677	The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96678	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary. Administrative discharge of craftsmen, congratulations, I think it's a good way and especially these little ones who hire themselves or one or two. And I think this government has contributed a lot this year. However, labour injuries and other things, there are regulations that we all know are and can be followed by all of us craftsmen and entrepreneurs. However, there is one thing that is not good perhaps in our system, a craftsman, an independent craftsman when he comes into trouble and comes into a simple inability to work he can't apply to the bureau, he can't be on the bureau, he can't have the same rights as others who go to the bureau that I think he should. Although it corresponds to its assets, it corresponds to its total assets while companies and d.o.o. They don't have it. This should therefore be put into law, so that craftsmen can be given time when they are not sufficiently solvent at the employment office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96679	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96680	Dear Mr. Muscle, first of all, I want to say that I'm glad you asked a question because you're an entrepreneur yourself, so you know very well what challenges entrepreneurs face. What I want to answer first is that they have the right to these people when they close the crafts to apply to the Croatian Employment Service. So, I'm glad you recognized the importance of both this Law and the dispensation of entrepreneurs, but also of raising the level of protection at work. In addition, what I would like to stress on this occasion is the active employment policy measures of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system for which we have allocated 2 billion and 600 million kuna in this year. In all, in two years of behaviour of the government's responsibility 4 billion and 500 million kuna, which is never again in the history of the Republic of Croatia. And I think those numbers are saying enough about how much this government really cares about employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96681	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President-in-Office of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 37th session held on 26 September, the Committee discussed the final proposal for this Act and discussed that act in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. They submitted observations to the Committee on that act by independent Croatian trade unions and professors. Marinko Učur, appointed member of the Committee. In the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, it explained the fundamental differences between the resolutions of this Law and the solution set out in the proposal for first reading of the law. She pointed out that according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of 2. 8th of this year, which relates to the abolition and reduction of the number of agencies and institutions, the Office for the Advancement of Labour Protection and the Office's work will be taken over by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy has established measures since January 2017 to streamline certain obligations in the field of labour protection, appropriate amendments and amendments to the law have been made. The debate stressed that the aim of the proposed law is more rational implementation of labour protection obligations, which will ultimately contribute to the recovery of the economy. The debate also stressed that the proposed changes and additions will not affect the reduction of the level of safety and protection of workers at the workplace or will not increase the risk of injuries to work and occupational diseases. The following comments, proposals for opinions, were also presented in the debate. When the law was drawn up, social dialogue or social partners were not consulted, the proposed law should therefore be withdrawn from the procedure. The exemption of craftsmen from the provisions of the Labour Protection Act is, in the opinion of part of the Committee members, a poor solution that is more so because self-employed persons can also work with dangerous chemicals, biological agents and machines. Self-employed persons should apply at least the general principles of prevention and rules of protection at work. Furthermore, provisions reducing the frequency of holding meetings of the Committee on Protection at Work from 4 to 2 a year are unwarranted, as well as the reduction of the number of workers trained to provide first aid. Part of the Committee's opinion is that the proposed law did not strike a balance between the protection of workers and the discharge of the employer, i.e. savings to the health of workers. Furthermore, the opposition also challenges the proposed solution to the termination of the work of the Labour Protection Institute and the takeover by the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, and the debate has repeatedly highlighted that the safety and safety of the proposed law is not reduced, but only the administrative discharge of the employer as the secretary of state has said here. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 7 votes for, 2 against and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96683	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Mladen Karlic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96684	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act. This law regulates the system of protection at work in the Republic of Croatia, national policies and activities, rules of basic prevention and protection at work, obligations of employers, employees, workers means, commissioners and everything related to protection at work. And of course this is one law that is already in force from before and of course, as I remember through the debate most of the MPs were saying that it was solidly made. We are now facing changes and additions for several reasons. The first reason here is how many times it has already been mentioned, it is to implement the Government of Croatia's action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy since January 2017, which was intended to be a little rationalised, help entrepreneurs, reduce those obligations all of which have and various burdens parafiscal. The second reason for this amendment is also the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2 August, which accepts the proposal to reduce these numerous agencies, institutions, funds, and so is the Office for the Promotion of Protection at Work, which now passes into the Ministry's system. And the third reason why the law is passed is that other legal obligations such as professional training of work protection experts would be regulated in such a way as to ensure their implementation without the management of the administrative procedure as if individual obligations of the employer were more clearly prescribed, especially those for whose enforcement is prescribed. Amendments and additions to this law should not affect the reduction of the level of safety, should not affect the reduction of the safety of health protection and health of workers at the place of work in the employer, or should not increase the risk of occupational injury, occupational illness, work-related diseases. A certain administrative discharge of the employer will be ensured. What is equally important is that the application of safety rules at work at work is in line with European Union directives on health protection at work. So all of this law of ours is in line with all the rules and directives of the European Union, so we haven't made any mistakes, or we have everything we need. But the primary goal is to disburse the economy and help in these times means to strengthen the economy, and then we will help the workers. What is also important is the need to amend and supplement certain provisions in terms of clearer regulation of the law, especially when performing specific tasks where general rules of prevention cannot be fully applied. The law also covers issues of protection on the work of craftsmen and self-employed persons, which is already spoken, said in fact through these numerous replicas. However, since the risk assessment is the starting point for the implementation of safety at work, the assessment of the risk of damage shall include the determination of the relationship between exposure levels to the harmful factor and its effect on the organism in the form of pathological changes, i.e. disease or injury that may occur. And that's actually what's most important, which is the goal, to reduce the risk that can happen at the workplace and thus actually ensure protection for workers, and then indirectly to employers and everyone else. It is therefore important that all workers, of course, and the company's leadership participate and be included in the risk assessment and I think that it is also the task of every company, every person who works to help keep the work as safe as possible, to be as healthy as possible with as few risks as possible that could arise in the workplace. And in this, of course, workers should be much more involved, that is, to develop this awareness of how important they really are, how helpful they can be in this risk assessment, how helpful they can help to reduce all these risks and actually lead to as much security as possible, as little injury in the workplace. It also provides for the harmonisation of certain provisions of the law with the provisions of the Labour Act, the Law on the Restriction of Tobacco and Related Products, which extends what is extremely important for non-smoking people. This law also harmonizes the composition of members of the National Work Protection Council, with amendments to this law concerning the abolition of the Labour Protection Institute and with a view to including it in the membership of a member who will represent a work protection segment. With this proposal, amending and supplementing the law, here are some things that I'm going to say, so just some of them, so that's the concept of work-related disease, which is mentioned in the Labour Protection Act, but without an explanation of the importance. It is established... does not apply to craftsmen performing alone, as a thread to an employer represented by a single natural person who is also the sole employer's worker, as has already been said. The provisions concerning the arrangements for the implementation of protection at work shall be recast where their specific nature is contrary to the principle of prevention. And that means police, pyrotechnics, military, firemen, etc. Services that actually go to places where there are great risks. The employer is obliged to have documented information in... workers, or their representatives... risk assessment. It reduces participation, holding regular board meetings at work with one in 3, with one in 6 months. The number of able workers to provide first aid is reduced to a total number from one to 20, to one 50. Now, I see it caused a lot of debate in the first reading since 30 years I've been working as a first-aid instructor for drivers and workers, aware that very few people who come to this course, whether as drivers, or as drivers, have to have it for work, very few of those who are serious about it, and unfortunately, this is a problem that we have to put into the minds of every man that is based on something, the foundation of some kind of health culture knows to provide first aid and I think there should be something that should be taught in schools, that here on this, if it will lead to discharge and help entrepreneurs but it is very important that what is later indicated means that there must always be one person at the site no matter how many people there are, there must be more people who will know how well to provide first aid and of course at every construction site and every shift so that it can's not happen to write one, and in fact there must be more people if there's a job or company that there is such thatthere 's more construction sites or more people who need to be more people in the number of people who need to be inorder. So we can, in fact, do what is important to cover always the construction site with a person who can provide it, but if that person knew how to provide first aid professionally as requested means that he should also know more than that basic provision of first aid specifically related to the specificity of work at the workplace he is actually in charge of providing first aid. But what's very important is that every person should actually know first aid and it should be something like the basics of some kind of general culture. The concept of working ability is replaced by health skills. Since the matter of working capacity is not subject to this law, the provisions of the law are reshape with regard to the construction of work protection elaborates, the application of the beginning of... works, the drafting of the plan, the carrying out of works, the making of risk assessments and the carrying out of work protection activities by the authorised person. The infringement provision concerning the making of a risk assessment shall also be complemented in the event of an assessment not involving workers, i.e. their representatives. Here's what I think is very important means that this law has a purpose and absolve it. to help a small economy, but not to distort the prevention of work injuries and the preventive action of improving work protection, or that protection at work is something that is very important and serious and that every employee, every member of that company, craft or legal person should contribute to all being better protected and that it is a minor risk of the occurrence of the disease. Here, in this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal for a final law on protection of labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96685	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96686	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. So, as I said in the initial replica compared to 2002 when this Law was negotiated with the social partners, therefore, this is not a law that has brought someone to harm others, but the social partners have sat down and debated for a long time what is good for the system of protection at work and not what is a special interest or employers, or unions or governments and have found a common solution. And in 2002, a law was passed which is now and regardless of these changes will be about 95% of the law that was passed in 2002, regardless of these changes, the essence of the law and the spirit of the law will remain the same. I just react bitterly when I know how much this area costs in Europe, when I know how much we can possibly withdraw funds from the European Social Fund on protection of work and health at work so that we can work on other people's money or drive on other people's gasoline and give publications and deal with prevention from protection at work, so we are in no way clear why and this is the condition for Europe to give that money to institutions that are founded on a tripartite social dialogue, and not that it is only under government and ministry control. So, in this participatory model, this is favored from Europe and I don't understand why we had to go to the abolition or accession of the Ministry of Labour Protection and the Institute for Health and Safety at Work. If someone wanted to save, then they could have connected those two institutions and possibly done some rationalization there, but not shut them down. Whoever claims that there is no cancellation is wrong, because the articles of the law specifically state that the director of this office will, in particular here, mention the Office for the Promotion of Protection at Work that they will apply for the shut-down of the Labour Protection Office within a certain period. So it's a completely unnecessary story. Secondly, the procedure for the adoption of this Act, therefore, we in the equipment of this Act here, State Secretary, please, in the equipment of this Act, do not have a report on the other consultation with the interested public in the equipment of this law. We don't have the consent of the social partners, and here there should be agreement or opinion, or a separate opinion of the social partners, but we don't. Why don't we? Because the Economic Social Council is in a blockade, and neither has the task force in charge of drawing up the final draft of the law met, and it is not the work of the working group, but rather the ministry's office. I think that good practice, good level, good democratic standard here is going down to a lower level without need, and that's pretty strong in protection at work looking at European institutions whether it's a work protection agency in Bilbau, whether it's a union Trade Union Technical Bureau in Brussels or so. Much is given to this social dialogue and tripartite management of such institutions. So, it's not just an agency that one ministry would hire to start someone. It's about something much more important, because technologies are changing, because the world of work is progressing, because it needs to be monitored and developed in continuity, not because it's someone's whim or it's not that it exists or it doesn't exist. So, we club Vosa and HSU cannot possibly vote for this law for this principle reason and we will propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that this goes into third reading. I know you're going to say no, even though it's not smart or reasonable because if something is created in social dialogue, why are you interrupting this social dialogue? It is not smart, it is not reasonable, let's not let it be worth it compared to what the democratic world, democratic Europe, developed European countries that are very much at stake in this area of protection on the job. You can give me a guarantee that everything will be like before. I'm sure these institutions won't be able to work autonomously, and there's been a lot of accumulated knowledge in these institutions either at the Labour Protection Institute, or at the Health and Safety Institute. Furthermore, I must admit that we have one and eight amendments, of course the first provocation is that in art. 3. remains an office for improving safety at work, I suppose if you decided to refuse. But again I say I recommend you to read third, we're going to juvie, so I admit even some of the things that you want to change. Okay, your thing, but we're not doing well in principle, so we're not doing well. As for these disputes of ours about the work of craftsmen or self-employed persons, etc. Why do we single out categories of legal persons or individuals, what's the problem? What's the problem? In paragraph 1, if a craftsman does not have to work alone, he may be exempt from the provisions of the Labour Protection Act, but if he works two in paragraph 2 he cannot? If two workers work together, two craftsmen in paragraph 2 may not, when, together with or with other persons or more other persons, perform work at the same place of work, then they are obliged to apply it. So, guys, what are we doing? I think that the right not to apply one part of the provisions of the Labour Act, have all legal and physical persons if they prove that there is no harm and danger when doing business at a particular place of work. That's why we're doing risk assessments, which is why we're doing a damage and danger assessment. Why would they tell me if you're working alone then you can poison the environment or someone else, then you can drop it in the sewer so tomorrow it explodes poisonous... or explosive and flammable... if you're doing something alone in your apartment. And that you're putting others in danger? Nothing to anyone? We have used these provisions to amnesty some people to extend the danger of their activities or their private work or to deal with other people in the environment. So, I offer you and in the amendment we offer you another formulation that there is the possibility of exemptions from the application of certain provisions of this Act and for legal and natural persons without differences in their form in how they prove that there is no harm and danger in carrying out these tasks. Also, you're fine with this formulation that excludes firemen, armed forces, etc. However, why not put a point behind firemen and pyrotechnics when you have a good formulation? Why should it be stated – these other specific jobs? Well, you said exactly, the ones that don't have to, because they're opposed to some of the general principles of protection at work. So stand there, if any other jobs show up, then we'll be doing a law change. But what does that mean, other specific jobs? Anybody want to meet you and tell me we're doing some specific jobs, so we're not obliged to do that? And secondly, I have a big dilemma here, too, so please listen for a moment. I've got a big dilemma because you're putting in several places recognised rules of protection at work. That jobs will be carried out or that protection will be governed by specific rules which are in order or recognised by the rules of protection at work. Let's get this straight. There is written protection at work and there is unwritten protection at work. In written labour protection there are general rules on protection at work, which means that the working environment needs to be arranged in a safe way or specific rules of protection at work, which is a set of rules that say that a person must behave according to certain harmfulness and dangers. Does he have to use protective devices, protective suits? So anywhere where it is not possible to eliminate the causes of man through procedures or ultimately through protective suits. A recognised rule of protection at work. How can I illustrate that to you? A recognised rule of protection at work, you can work with a shovel to be strong on both muscles and just like this grab. Basically, the rule at work is that you make a lever with that shovel's knee. It's a recognised rule of protection at work that's not written, it's not a common rule. Therefore, we do not need to say that we are going to regulate something with recognised rules of protection at work because it is something that has been created and is offended that certain work procedures are being done in a safer, better and better way. So, please, here, it's in your item of Article 4, so take a look at it again. Therefore, also in Article 6 relating to Article 18(5), the employer is obliged to include their representatives in the risk assessment process and to lead to documented information. So why don't we write something we all understand? Can anyone explain to me what it means to have documented information? Well, I guess we're either keeping a record or keeping some records of meetings, I mean, I don't know. Let's just say it in a simpler dictionary, no, documented information. Or I don't understand the new Croatian language but this doesn't give me any content. Next, speaking of the National Council. If we had another problem with the National Council for Protection at Work, it made a proposal for a strategy to develop protection at work in the Republic of Croatia, the government did not refer that strategy to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. So it's a dead letter on paper, so I wonder why that national council. In my day as a member of that National Council, we were quite active and we proposed certain activities in terms of prevention of work injuries. We talked about certain safety campaigns at work, etc. and make proposals to the government. The National Council is an advisory body of the Government and I do not understand why the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health must now have three members, or they must have more members than other social partners. So do it if you want to at least if you want to do it exactly like that, then do 3, 3. Make three representatives of the ministry. Instead of the Ministry of Labour, put the Minister of Education on board because the school should begin to learn about the system of protection at work and teach people that it is not a whim to force someone to use protective means, but that it is in the interest of their health, safety of life and health. So put in 3 union representatives, and please put in 3 union representatives two employers' associations and one craftsman because just because of this dispute that we have at the beginning, whether craftsmen are allowed or not, whether they can be excluded or not, and that they are also getting into working protection. Here, I'll say the rest in my individual discussion. I hope you'll appreciate some of these suggestions, and I'd like you to respect the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96687	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96688	Thank you, Vice President. I ask you by your authority to influence the Government of the Republic of Croatia to start answering parliamentary questions. We have parliamentary questions asked four months ago with four rushes and we still don't have answers. I will not even ask the President of the Parliament of Mr Jandrokovic because he has fully subordinated this Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But I expect you as an academic, as a man of authority to put pressure on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally start answering parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96689	Okay. You know that's not the subject, and it's out of the Rules of Procedure. However, I agree with you, and I will draw attention. The government must respond within the appropriate time limit to the questions of parliamentary representatives. I absolutely agree with that, and I will draw the attention of the Prime Minister to that. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96690	So I'd be begging a 10-minute break so that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96691	You can't. You've already had a break today. I'll stop you right now. You've already had a break today, so you can't have any more in the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Sasa Djujic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96692	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with their associates. I would like to start by saying that this is a very important law, although it may not be so for some, today it is very well written in a column that today the Croatian Parliament is discussing amendments and additions to the Proposal for a Law on Protection of Labour, which is the most boring law in the world. That's what the New List says, so I quote, except for the moment when an accident occurs, when someone gets hurt, or when someone gets sick, it becomes the most important law in the world, but unfortunately it remains only for the person who gets hurt. So I want to draw attention to that this is a very important law, that the current law whose amendments we are now doing is in force since 2014, that it was then passed with a lot of the same noise, a lot of remarks, a lot of things that were not right. However, unlike what you are now doing in 2014 there has been a debate and a consensus with the social partners and in 2014 many of the objections that were made to this law have been respected. And we see that today you're doing something quite the opposite. I must say that the SDP Club will support the proposal of HSU and the Voice that this Law goes into third reading and that is the only variant that we will ultimately support this law if it goes into third reading if our comments in third reading are respected. So, as I said in my first reading, this 2014 Law is so far let's say it's already a little bit and it's run down and it's supposed to change it. When we saw this proposal go, we were very happy and we said so in our first reading because the amendments to this law were necessary and necessary. But at the end of what you've been doing, it would have been better if you hadn't done anything, if everything had stayed the way it was and nothing had touched on this matter. I am sorry that a number of suggestions we said in our first reading are the same that we are happy that the law goes into regular procedure and we were really hoping, that in this second reading, you will accept our proposals from the opposition that have been well-intentioned and have been in favour of the very workers that you are now abolishing and restricting rights, or you are putting their safety and health at even greater risk than they have so far. Unfortunately, you have not accepted any of our suggestions, not one of our remarks from the first reading. It bothers me again, I told you State Secretary and the Replicator, and I told you that on the Labour and Pension System Committee, it bothers me when protection at work is viewed as an administrative discharge because that's what this topic should last be called. So what you said is part of it, but it still dominates that administrative discharge in relation to prevention and security. That's inadmissible. The protection at work must not be cost and must not be regarded as cost. And frankly, I don't care what the Ministry of Economy thinks about this issue. I don't care. I'm a member of the Committee on the Economy, but when it comes to worker safety and worker health, then it's the last thing I care what the Ministry of Economy thinks. But I am very concerned about what your ministry thinks, and your ministry is being called exactly to the Ministry of Economy and you who are called the Ministry of Labour, and you should be protecting the rights of workers right now protecting the rights of those who threaten the rights of workers, unfortunately. To avoid generalization, it's not mostly like that, but unfortunately, we have a lot of negative examples. In my first reading, I also spoke in Western Europe, in countries, the state prescribes certain safety standards at work that employers should also stick to in developed countries, employers and exceed those prescribed standards, give even greater safety to their workers and increase standards. Unfortunately, we as a country aren't even close yet. So, with us one part of the employers again, not all of us, even watching these prescribed norms that we have how to bypass. We have a bunch of cases where there are injuries to work in certain companies in private, so I'm not going to talk, I'm going to exclude the state from this because the state still adheres to the law on this matter. But in certain private companies, a worker gets hurt at work, and then the employer tells him to go home and report that you're home, because if he reports that he's been killed in a company, he gets an inspection and he's gonna have some problems, and on the other hand, if the workers don't agree to it, then they're fired. And it is open to certain people in Croatia that are threatened to quit if they report a work injury in their company, and thus lose certain rights stemming from this law. And because of that, there were some more things in this law that needed to be approached more rigorously, not the way you did it. I will now mention only a few things that we in the SDP disagree with because in our first reading, we presented a whole series that you didn't accept, but I must mention here as well as my colleague Hrelja before me. We are certainly against this story that craftsmen are exempt from obligations under this law set out, OK, we were talking in the first reading that companies and craftsmen who do not have a single employee could be thought of, and you can see that right away. But what someone does alone and doing some kind of occupation, I'll repeat it again, doesn't mean that the craftsman is in some occupation that may not be so dangerous, does not mean that his safety isn't compromised because he's doing business in different places. So, an electrician does jobs in various places, people are threatened, and people are moving where a craftsman does his job, ordinary citizens, civilians you and I, who come to some area where some craftsman does something. You are threatened by other craftsmen working in the area, and a craftsman, for example, is threatened. He's working in a circle where there's some kind of chemical, where there's some kind of, uh, threatened area that's in itself not safe. And that's why he's saying he's alone, he's one, he's not doing a lot of endangered things, so they need to be excluded from it, we don't think it's good. The more no country in the environment, the more I will repeat it as in the first reading, there are no craftsmen excluded from the obligations of the Labour Act. So no country in the region around Croatia has this provision that you are now introducing, no one knows. And now I don't know why we have to be first? And if there's no one around, then obviously it's not good. Secondly, what we've proposed we thought would come upon your approval, it's a constant improvement of safety experts at work. We suggested it in the first reading. I see that not only do we not go to permanent training but in certain provisions you are even reducing the roles of future professionals in companies. And we think that they should right now have a much stronger role to play that we should constantly improve as technology goes forward, as it is working today is much different than 10 or 15 years ago or 20, so the threats of days are different and people who deal with their work security companies should constantly improve and improve their knowledge so that they can resist these new challenges. On the other hand, it is necessary to strengthen their role in businesses. It is precisely because of what I said earlier, because they often warn their employers of certain standards and measures that these must adhere to, however, employers in order to save the purchase of cheaper equipment or not buying equipment at all and workers are not protected. Well, in these cases, like I said before, someone gets hurt, so they say go home and tell them you were doing something at home and you fell to hurt yourself. But then not only this worker, but also this expert who warns his employer of certain norms, and this one tells him – look, shut up and work or you'll get fired. And often they change in businesses. And that's why you needed to strengthen these measures even more and make it even more rigorous, not simplifying things on such important issues. Secondly, I will return to first aid and the number of people who have to be trained to provide first aid in companies. As I said in my first reading, we believe that this provision that has so far been that 1 in 20 workers must be trained is too small and we expected you to continue to do so, that you will have to be 1 in 10 qualified to provide first aid. Not what you're doing. And if I don't make that argument now because we've said it many times in our first reading, they've said colleagues before me, they'll probably say colleagues behind me. That's not a good solution, that's what you're offering right now, not good. And I'm asking you to think about it one more time, think about it, maybe we should go to the third reading and get you fixed up. The same reduction in the frequency of holding meetings of the Working Protection Committee, this existing solution is satisfactory at least once every 3 months and was good. And there's no financial savings when you now prescribe it at least once in six months. Because this, the Council and how it was beneficial both to the employer and to the companies had a lot of benefit from him and their advice and suggestions, and we do not feel that we should go there again for once a month because it is too much, but that the existing provision once in 3 months was satisfactory and that you should not have done what you are doing now because their meeting will certainly be arranged. No one's going to say, "I don't have to meet once every six months," so I'm going to encourage them to meet once a month. He won't. So it's not good either. Not to say once again that we are dissatisfied that social partners were not involved in the creation of this Law. It's the biggest failure of this law, or these changes, and that's how things can't be done, and it's going to produce a lot of dissatisfaction, and we don't think that was good. The same thing about abolishing the Bureau and the secretary of state, I've read well is no lapus or misunderstanding. What you're doing is abolishing the Bureau, because putting under the auspices of the Ministry and under the jurisdiction of the Ministry is its abolition. And you could have connected these two institutions to one and you'd have done a rationalization, but you'd still have one independent office independent of a ministry that could work and then it wouldn't be an abolition and that would be rationalization. And what you've done is you've done a clean lifting and a clean decommissioning of those institutions, and that shouldn't have happened. It's another thing to end. I've already said, unless this law goes to the third reading of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, it will be highly opposed to these changes. We don't think that the way you suggested this, you shouldn't have suggested it. We've been looking forward to these changes. But in the end, it turns out that what we've got so far would be better. Safety at work for the last 15, 20 years, the level of safety at work has been gradually built through a series of negotiations, through a series of legal solutions. In the last 15 years, one level has been reached, one standard has been reached, and you will now only overnight with these changes to bring down something that has been built and worked for the last 15 years. And we find that inadmissible. And once again, we want to point out that this law must not be seen as an expense through administrative discharge. There are a lot of parafiscal burdens that can be lifted through which the economy and entrepreneurs can be dispersed. This should by no means be an area to save the economy. I am always the first to encourage the economy and administrative discharge, however, not to the safety of workers and to endanger their health. I once again appeal to you to accept this conclusion, a proposal from your colleagues from HSU and the Voice that this law goes into third reading. Otherwise we'll be against it, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry that this proposal finally came before us parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96693	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Mosta and the independent lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96694	Thank you, Vice President. Among the two law readings, the provisions of a formal nature have been amended exclusively and certain concepts have been better defined. The only fundamental change was contained in the abolition of the Office for the Promotion of Labour Protection, which was made under the Action Plan of the Excess Agency, the Institute and others. So we repeat our first - reading opinion. Of course, it should not be a problem to have a unique view on fundamental issues such as the safety of individuals and the protection of lives, so that any shift in the legislative framework that will result in an increase in safety conditions should be commended. Although only the adoption of this law in 2014 has caused a lot of debate and criticism in the public of all stakeholders, a certain shift has nevertheless been made. Finally, this dialogue for the consequence was the reaction of former Minister Miranda Mrsic, whose term of office saw the light of day, and was soon amended by a regulation quoted by the June 2015 Ministry of Labour. "Now, in line with European practice with the goal of increasing job safety, as well as the redundancies of employers." I would dare to add that this is only partially true. That's where this bill goes. The fact is that in certain parts of this bill, it makes it easier for employers to implement protection measures at work, but I still think it is not enough that I will briefly explain through the analysis of certain points both proposals and certain parts of the law itself. I believe that a whole new legislative proposal should be put in place, more so that some of the key things are not included in the bill at all, which the European Union states in many of its official documents as necessary. These are diseases caused by work... sectors, a system of economic initiatives and tax relief. This law has not been defined by any of these strategic objectives. Therefore, Article 1 is abolished by the Labour Protection Office and will be carried out by the Ministry of Labour. The measure is commendable, but it is necessary to closely monitor the number of ministry employees at these jobs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Diseases related to work are diseases that cause more factors than one of them. What does this mean? What are these diseases? This is an extremely important point of the law and it is really inadmissible to be this broad and unspeakable, by the fact that the European Agency for Labour Protection clearly and unequivocally states on its website which diseases, which are the causes, which measures need to be taken and which prevention. Many times in the analysis, we highlight less general concepts of laws and more factual specificities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Bill of law, this is fine. The proposal that the provisions of this law do not apply to a craftsman himself, as well as to an employer represented by a single natural person who is also the sole employer of the employer, except when they carry out certain activities of the person at work for them and that they are obliged to apply this Act when they work together with another person or more persons at the same place of work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The employer is obliged to include workers or their representatives in the risk assessment process and to have documented information on this. This is good. It is precisely the European Labour Protection Agency that states the importance of involving workers in the risk assessment process and sets out on its pages the exceptional importance of providing the resources and knowledge needed for micro-organisations and small organisations to assess their own risks. Considering that such business entities account for 90% of the Croatian economy, the importance of this legal measure is even greater. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a law – several employers operating at the same location may agree to jointly carry out work protection activities by applying the workers' criterion and other criteria referred to in paragraph 1, 2.3., 4 of this Article. This is positive because it goes towards reducing the cost of employers. This Regulation shall enter Proposal for a Law, this article refers to Art. 43. The law, although this amendment does not change the essence of the article itself, is important to be seen here. The article provides that the employer may use supervisory devices as a means of protection at work under the conditions laid down in this law. However, it is further stated in paragraph 4 that if the control devices make all the movements of workers during the performance of the work, or if the control devices are set up so that workers are allowed to use supervisory devices solely on the basis of the previous consent of the Working Council throughout their performance in the field of supervisory devices. How much of the law allows the employer to use video surveillance, how much did the employer inform the worker in the conclusion of an existing contract, we really don't understand why the Working Council or the union commissioner with the right and obligations of the Working Council would determine the person who invested his own funds in a business in his own space or in a lease, which he may or may not be in the same? Article 14 is replaced by the following: The 57th Law, although this amendment does not change the essence of the article itself, is also important to be seen here, the article states in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 that the employer is obliged to implement non-smoking protection against tobacco smoke, that smoking is prohibited at work meetings, that smoking at the place of work is prohibited. In what exact way does an employer still have to protect non-smoking when smoking at the place of work is prohibited? Why would an employer be responsible for someone’s irresponsible behavior rather than for an irresponsible worker? Article 18 in order not to specify what the employer is obliged to provide, to the work protection commissioner, to read. Please listen to your colleagues, if it's not interesting to come out, have a cup of coffee, but let me put this right here. Thank you. Therefore, the employer shall not cancel the work protection officer during the conduct of his duties without the consent of the Working Council or the union commissioner who has the rights and obligations of the Workers' Council, nor shall he otherwise put him in a more unfavourable position than his previous working conditions and relation to the other workers. I'd like to explain this, so absolutely self-respecting the rights of the worker, but what if that worker doesn't perform his duty? I don't think these things are good, they don't encourage excellence in the performance of workwork. As such legal provisions encourage the employer to enter into work contracts for a certain time on such a deficiting labour market as Croatia has become, believe that there is no employer who will fire an excellent worker for no reason. While the flexibility of the labour market and legislative regulations have been proven to produce excellent results and deny a general opinion on workers' non-protection. I think it would be best to conclude this analysis of what this bill doesn't have. I mean, there's no law itself, and these two key things would have to be recognized and recognized. The ICT sector, the European Labour Protection Agency has launched a project of forecasts dealing with possible rapid development effects in the field of information and communication technologies including artificial intelligence and robotics on safety and health at work. The aim of the project is to provide Member States' governments with the unions and employers with the necessary data on changes in their impact on the nature and place of work, and on all the problems they will pose with regard to safety and health at work by 2025. I don't have any future left, this is the present, and our legislation ignores the same present. But when the Minister of the Administration says that depending on the signal being used by a private or business email, it would be a wonder if our legislation ever recognized something like this. Economic initiatives. Here we come again to a key point that should be valorizing the success of excellence. How? Very simple through tax relief and lower contributions for companies that are the most successful. In particular, pay particular attention to micro and small enterprises while reliefs must be high enough to encourage all participants to participate. Such a system of relief should have clear criteria and be designed to be as simple as possible in order for administrative burdens to be low both for employers and for the state. I would especially reward those companies that would promote innovative solutions to work protection so that others could implement through the sharing system. These things should be an integral part of any modern and innovative law in order to promote the fight for excellence and creativity among market entities. So where any invested kuna or euro in this way in the future would generate new values. For this very reason, I call for the creation of a new modern and forward-looking labour protection law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96695	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96696	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with associates. And here's a part I already mentioned in my replica, part of it, the remarks that I'm going to make here in this individual debate. So we have before us this final bill of protection at work, even though we really hoped that this reading would be appreciated and some of your remarks, this has indeed not happened, unfortunately. In fact, nothing happened to convince me that you really understand the system of protection at work, that you really care about the safety of workers, that you care about employers, that you care about the reduction in the number of sick people and that you care about increasing the quality of work. Because how do you explain that you have proposed amendments and supplements that represent reducing the rights of workers, and you did not go to a quality one system analysis to consider what key pillars of protection are at work, which are provisions which needlessly burden the employer, driving inspectors to punishment rather than contributing to safety at the workplace. I guess that's why you stayed on all of these earlier amendments and didn't appreciate any of the essential remarks that were made at the first reading, but accepted some that actually represent cosmetic changes, changes in relation to the first proposal. And if only you had stayed only on those cosmetic changes, but it wasn't enough for you, you had to actually put the last nail on the box of systems protection at work and before you would actually cover it for me and forget it. Because in the meantime, and without consulting the social partners, you have also abolished an institution that is tasked with improving protection at work. That's why it's inadmissible for me that you haven't consulted the social partners in the adoption of this law that you haven't consulted on the abolition of the Labour Protection Office. Because you don't have a consensus of social partners, and unions have objections to this final proposal. In fact, they propose amendments to those remarks that were discussed and in the first reading, which actually means that you failed to fulfil the task you needed, and the task should not be a discharge. The task should be to improve work protection, improve safety at work. Instead of what you're offering us, I'm asking you a question. Why didn't you try and bring a national work protection program? Why didn't you relieve employers of their business from unnecessary administration? Why do you think work protection is unnecessary, that burden and that doesn't make sense? If you feel that there is a lack of logic in the work protection system, then it is necessary to resolve them in such a way that they are not logical and enlightened and cleansed. But you didn't do it. And what did you do? You hit first aid. You've excluded the self-employed and reduced the number of working protection committee meetings. It's actually really amazing to me how you came up with this idea that it would actually relieve employers and contribute to safety at work. Because if you have listened carefully now to the real presentations of all the MPs who spoke to you well-intentionedly and in the first reading, even now and invited you to give up this final proposal and actually go to the third reading to achieve one consensus and to consult with the social partners. So how did you actually come up with this idea that what you suggested would contribute to safety at work? Because just so you know, an exemption like I said in a replica of self-employed people is actually unclear. Why exclude a self-employed person rather than encourage him to take care of the protection of work, take care of himself, and you know that many self-employed people really do handle different chemicals and work in different conditions? This can be delivered differently in a different way, not exempt from some of the procedures that are really important. Because I'm asking again. What is the difference between a self-employed person and a person who employs just one more person? This is the kind of cutting you do when the rate of injuries to the work on a thousand workers increased compared to 2016. It now stands at 12.2. I'm going to warn you of another fact. This is visible to you from the report of the Institute for the Promotion of Protection at Work that the highest number of deaths has been recorded in micro-employees or those who employ 1 to 9 workers. It seems to me again, and I disagree with you, and I don't think self-employed workers should be excluded because there is a very, very thin line between self-employed workers and those who hire a worker. And it is unclear for the government to exclude self-employed persons from the obligation to apply safety regulations at work. It is true that certain provisions cannot apply to self-employed persons, but even to an employer who employs, say, two people may not be able to apply all the provisions of the law. But what is important is that employers and workers understand how much their own actions or actions contribute to safety at work. Among other things, the report shows that, among other things, the failure to provide first aid to workers and other persons to provide emergency medical assistance or to receive medical care, as well as to facilitate public service treatment, emergency medical services. This is from the report itself. Therefore, when it is precisely the fact that first aid is extremely important that it is important that all workers are trained to provide first aid cannot possibly go, therefore this fact that it is important cannot be compared to you reducing the number of first aid qualified in relation to the number of workers in a given situation. Wouldn't it make sense that you really encourage employers and workers to realize that the protection of work is crucial for the preservation of health and human life and that it's not just a set of legal and administrative obligations and a possible source of discomfort if it isn't fulfilled. Because from that opening statement of yours, it was actually an emphasis on discharging from legal and administrative obligations. There's got to be an accent on this other one. In conclusion, I don't accept a law like this because I don't really see it as an improvement in my work protection system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96697	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96698	Thank you very much. Well, your colleagues from your debate have actually been able to conclude that you're constantly trying to say that the government has actually hit safety at work. For a number of reasons, and one of them is by you and a reduction in the board's sessions. Did you know that some employers, or working protection committees, had to invent agendas so far to hold a session? If he's going to have two in a year, then one in six months doesn't mean that's it. He can have 10 if he has to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96699	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Answer, colleague Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96700	Dear counterpart Lukacic, that I continue to claim that this law does not contribute, does not promote work protection or contributes to safety at work. Just by saying that before reducing the number of people who will be trained to provide first aid, there is no way they can improve the system of protection at work. And the same thing that you mentioned that committees must, therefore, invent agendas, so it's quite surprising to me, and it doesn't seem logical to me, because in 3 months, the committees really have something to say and the employer has something to say and it's also about employers, big employers who really need to be kept as much care for the safety of each worker as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96701	I thank my colleague Alfirev for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The labour protection law is not a cost, labour protection is not a cost and it is completely stupid to talk about the administrative discharge of employers because it is not an administrative discharge of employers but a PR government that wants to show that something is working. And she just hit the Labour Protection Act. And I have to say that Minister Pavić, who is a resolution minister, is not only a undertaker of the pension system but obviously a undertaker and protection at work and that it is his obvious agenda that everything that has been positive in Croatia, which has been created for years, because protection in Croatia has been created for 30, 40 years, so it is not something that was of this or that government, wants to destroy and suppress everything that was good. And the secretary of state didn't tell you the truth when Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas asked you about the work protection inspector because today or yesterday was a briefing for journalists at the Ministry of Economy where the State Inspectorate was announced and it was very clear that labour inspectors, inspectors at work with some other inspectors, but see the devil not, Minister Tolusic inspection veterinary, agricultural, etc., not health inspectors, therefore the sanitary inspection and those other inspections that are related to it. Therefore, it is obvious that Minister Pavic is a weak minister who cannot defend his portfolio from attacks by other ministers with the aim of creating again some major state inspectorate who will not do his job but we will talk about it when the law comes to debate. What you're supposed to do is unite these two institutions dealing with work protection. And that would be the right goal. And that would be administrative savings because then they would get a strong institution that would deal with protection at work. Europe promotes such a way of working in protection at work. The European Agency for Labour Protection will now have no partner in Croatia to discuss with these institutions at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System. The EU is very interested in developing work protection, but obviously it does not matter to you because... People will go to the ministry, it will melt in one big system, it will be on paper, but it will have no impact and in 5 or 6 years when we talk about protection at work we will remember that it was the HDZ government that brought it in, it will be late, but I hope it will work out and it will come to mind that what you are doing should not be done, but knowing Prime Minister Plenkovic and the desire to be accompanied by it, I am not sure that these proposals will be adopted because he will earn his chair in Brussels again through the citizens of the workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The abolition of the Institute for Promotion and Protection at Work is, not a savings, but a crime towards protection at work in Croatia. You save 2 kuna per worker. The budget of the Institute is 3 million kuna per year, it is 2 kuna per worker in Croatia, so 2 kuna is not saving because it will return in another way by increasing the number of injuries at work, reducing the level of protection at work, reducing the availability of protection at work. The Institute has proved to be a good mechanism to improve protection at work, how to improve the level of work protection experts, it has shown that in this way protection can be raised to a higher level in Croatia, you are now destroying and returning it to one move of feathers. Changing the laws by taking into account employers is something that no government should do, but should do it on the basis of a reasoned debate on whether or not it will bring effects, there was no argumentable debate here, and therefore what you are proposing could happen now that only employees do not apply to them the law on protection at work, this means that there will be more and more of these injuries, noting that there were 165 of them in 2015, and 2016. 127, those are the ones where the ambulance came to work so she found them hurt at work, and the question is how many of the others that the ambulance didn't come to, they called the hospital themselves. The EU promotes the system for self-employed persons to be subject to labour protection regulations. You go the opposite way from the EU, you bring it down to a lower level. And what employers and in Croatia always say protection at work is cost, and at the same time some companies, foreign companies that come to Croatia say so your Work Protection Act is not at all a problem, we want even more protection at work than it is in Croatia because it is in our interest to keep our worker safe, to be healthy, to be able to come to work and work, it is not our goal that our worker get sick and sick from diseases that are related to work. And what you've done is raise employers and I'm wondering again why HDZ is running away from protection at the work of our workers? You saw what happened in Zapresic, those seven days we had fun and discussed whether it could be helped or not. So there was this poll that asked our fellow citizens on the street if you could give first aid if someone crashed on the street? Only one person said that, I could help. The rest of you don't. And you now, instead of promoting first aid through this way, I know the company where the employer said I will train all my workers to provide first aid, not only for their people who work with me, but also when they find themselves in that situation on the street to help a citizen. And now you're making the standard that we've been trying to work out, you're reducing it in a way that releases the obligation of an employer who has 50 less workers to have a qualified first-aid person. And you say one is enough. What if that one's on sick leave? Then I see that the law states that the employer is obliged to inform all workers who are qualified to provide first aid. Well, obviously none of you who wrote that in the Labour Protection Act know in an emergency what's going on. That's who's nearest has to help. So now they're not going to ask on the advertising board who's qualified at the company to provide protection at work, or first aid, but the one next to it. And I'm asking you to move it, move it for the sake of the citizens because that way, through the obligation of protection at work, that people be able to give first aid, help and some citizen who crashes on the street, that the one who's trained through his employer gives him first aid. In Croatia, almost all shopping centres or I don't know where they put defibrillators, so something that can help you save your life. If you don't know how to use it, you'll kill someone, and you can use them if they can get you, and your employer can train you because you have the right to an ambulance. Therefore, removing the possibility of an employer that if there are less than 50 to provide first aid is something that goes on to harm the citizens and to harm the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is definitely something the government should not have done because it is no savings to the employer but ultimately there will be something that is not good for the whole society. This law has nothing to suggest a promotion, why it is at work, rather than abolishing protection at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96703	Thank you, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, we have a replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96704	Dear fellow Mrsic, I assume you were pleased in 2015, when the director, the European Agency for Labour Protection was in Croatia, was a guest at the traditional Alpe-Adriatic counseling in Opatija on protection at work, it is the same hot place where we draw the experiences of others as they organise protection at work, because we are not an island, nor do we know all the best and the best. And it was positively determined according to the tripartite dialogue in Croatia. I just want to say that we're exchanging attitudes here, that tripartite social dialogue is not a modernization. It's a way to eliminate the impact and change of every government on the protection of work to have its continuity and development, which is why we have, we have had this tripartite social dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96705	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja, Mrsic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96706	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja, that's when we received our commendation from the Director of the European... The institution that cares about protection at EU level and then we were proud that our work protection system is a system that works and still needs to be improved further steps and the Institute has been one of these steps and in the past 3 years the Institute has been doing well and I see no reason why it wants to be adjudicated except for some kind of PR that will cost us over time, but it will not care either the secretary of state or the minister or the diameter, because they will be what is in Brussels, which somewhere else, and those who will have the most damage are workers in the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96707	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Mrsic, the next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please. My fellow mistress, it's your turn to discuss, here you go. Give up? Thank you very much. [[I'm giving up.]] Next up for debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96708	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will continue to explain the amendments and then we will talk about these relations of Croatia with European insinuations and this partnership. First we have the next two articles of the law that's art. Article 11 14. where changes are minimal but are very significant. This deadline shall be for the convening of the working protection committee and the extension of that period from mandatory once every 3 months. at least once in six months. So, I think that's where he's wrong about the concept of the board of protection at work with the employer. I said in the debate in the first reading that the Committee on Protection at the work of the employer is the heart of protection at work. Here begins, there should be the application of all the most modern technologies, methods, regulations, supervision, therefore, it is the meeting place for all the subjects, who are responsible for the functioning of the work protection system. Where? Where it's closest, where there are sources of harmfulness and danger. So, not anywhere, but where the work takes place. And you know, in 2002, when we created these basics, we were offered another provision. Namely, then, and today exists, today under the regular number of art. 199. Labour law, which obliges employers to inform their workers, once in 3 months. on technologies, the development of society, on health, safety and health of workers, workers at work. Therefore, we did not set that deadline on some other basis back then in 2002, but according to the provisions of the Labour Act, which, in the absence of a quality Labour Protection Act, dealt with the area in a way that the employer must inform the workers. How? At a staff meeting. That provision is still in the Labour Act. And now, only you fight unions, you can row them once, 100 times, but you don't want as many times as you want, one will come to an end. Someone's gonna turn to you, and instead of saving you because you're not going to every three months. You'll have a staff meeting that's much more expensive. You know, if you have 200 people automatically half an hour of preparation before, half after the meeting, if you limit that it will work, that you will have this set of employees for one hour you will lose two hours. The loss will be much bigger than finding a work protection expert once every 3 months, employer's authority, labour protection union commissioner, possibly an expert in medicine work, possibly an inspector if it comes to some of his objections. They're all people who are either one way or another or contracted or hired by an employer. So what's the savings? Let's not do things that are normal to justify certain savings. The second question, or other figures, is the second issue in Article 14 and what is that number 20? On 20 workers one, at least one qualified to provide first aid. Well, that's people's convention. Are there any criteria that it has to be 20? It's a convention. It could've been 50, it could've been 150, it could've been 1,000, it could've been 5, but at some point in 2002 it was a convention. A deal between union representatives, employers and the government as well as this three-month deadline. Now we allow ourselves the luxury of changing the convention by the government's decision, by the government's will for someone famous who has an account in some big-time discharge. I don't see a discharge here, but it's not normal for us to change the convention unilaterally. Well, brother, you sit together with the employers, the unions and the government and make arrangements whether 20 is okay or not. Again, we have a second paragraph of the law that says it will be qualified to provide first aid and if only one works in a place where there are harmfulities and dangers and only one works in shift. Wait, how can we reconcile these two cases, how can we reconcile? I think you'll be trained to provide first aid. Giving first aid should be a civilizational reach and that this should be more or less, not more or less, than anyone who drives because this case can happen to us to help our fellow citizens, etc. How do you fix it? How do you fix it? Now that would be, that would be a problem for this law or a special rule to say that we will go through education every 5 years or every 10 years because the first aid system is progressing. But as it's said, the simple convention that was at 20 is now going to be 50, so the extra 50 is going to be another one, and then it's going to be everywhere it's going to be. A little illogically propose this without consulting, without creating a new convention. Unnatural for this law, for the other no, but for this type of law yes. Furthermore, we have, therefore, 6 persons from Croatia, 3 employers and three union representatives who are in the Administrative Council of the European Agency for Protection at Work. So who's their partner now, the Ministry? And everything works on a tripartite basis. Who is it? The Ministry? An economic social council that doesn't work? The Department of Labour Protection, which is tripartitely managed and which should have continuity independent of politics? I think we're losing, let's find some kind of rating in Europe because we're losing potential partners through reckless moves, or we're cutting our partners off for better and better co-operation with that Europe. However and whatever you think of it, I don't think anything better could have happened to us in these difficult times because we have in this area what we learn from the experiences of others because they're much more advanced technologically, they're terribly moving forward, so they're already considering those activities that we have somewhere in the world, and I don't know why we're doing it. Furthermore, if we want some funding from the EU, the ministry will not be able to take over instead of these two institutions that we mentioned and that are being abolished here and are related to protection at work. And I'm asking another question that makes sense of the existence of a National Work Protection Council whose proud member I was and I was in front of the union in my own time and we were really serious and responsible, it's a body that is completely volunteering, not even the travel expenses of each party to its representatives, so just on the matter, so good motivation, good will in an effort to improve something in good faith. But why do we need that national council when such changes, when such a law is not presented on that national council as the government's advisory body, that it can say something about it. As the National Work Protection Strategy has never been adopted in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96709	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We have a replica, colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96710	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, so the Committee on Labour Protection is very important for the purpose of preventing injury but as well as dialogue between the employer and the worker and he will de facto reduce the cost of the employer, because if there is no next step is the inspection of protection at work, so the employer will have a higher cost than he sat down with the workers and agreed. And today, the cost of the employer is much lower, because IT technology gives us the opportunity to talk without all of us at the same table. And secondly, both of us were in the administration, so here's a warning to the secretary of state, it will be written, that the national programme of protection at work has not been adopted, that we owe it to the Convention of International Labour Organisation 155, so don't let anyone rat you out there so we have problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96711	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic, my colleague Hrelja's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96712	I thank my colleague Mrsic, I would like to confirm what you said, with one addition. According to this Labour Protection Act, the Work Protection Committee is practically the only place where the labour inspector is not being supervised. So, the only place where the labour inspector, when certain problems are opened to him, whether on the nature of the technology, whether injury, or prevention, is a consultant. He'll come another time when there's a fatal injury or a major injury he'll come as a supervisory authority. But, at regular meetings of the Labour Protection Committee, which plans prevention, which speaks of pests and dangers, therefore, about everything that is important for protection at work, it can be a consultant and should be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96713	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, it is quite said, that I will focus only on the key message, which the State Secretary has tried to mask us, and this is impossible, because on page 11 that writes the reasoning, the reasons why the law is passed, therefore, the recognised State Secretary, this law is not adopted because of improving protection at work, because the first sentence states, the law is adopted for the implementation of the government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan, for administrative discharge of the economy, since January 2017 which has also established measures for rationalising certain obligations in the field of protection of work, and for the implementation of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as of 2 August 2018, which accepts the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, institutes, foundations, commercial companies and other legal persons with public powers, including the institution for promoting protection of work. And for which it was necessary to access the relevant amendments and amendments to the law. There's all the whistles, all the coworkers and colleagues, black on white. Therefore, if so, you could say that, not talk about some improvement in work protection, because it will not happen. In order for it to happen, it was necessary to elaborate with the proposals that you pointed out. I will again, for the sake of the public, who is looking to remind us, therefore, according to the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, in the classic 8 hours of working time, there are 1 injuries every 10 minutes and the situation is getting worse every year, so it is getting worse, and therefore some new measures need to be introduced to make work protection more effective. To remind again of the deaths that occurred this year. So, at the cement factory the worker died in Vrsar in March 2018 then in Chepin three workers on sewerage, 2018 in April, a construction worker died in Dubrovnik in August 2018. So it's tragic that people are losing their lives, but Madam Secretary of State, a data that needs to be worried about everyone who's in the Parliament right now, unfortunately very few of them, I specifically direct you to think about it. So, according to the exact data, which I didn't suck out of my finger, poor working conditions and a low level of protection at work, the reasons are why the expected duration of a healthy life after 65 years, so when we meet the conditions for retirement and retire, we should enjoy our retirement. In Croatia, however, this is expected to be the duration of healthy life after 65 years of double the EU average. In Croatia, the average is 5.2 years for men and 4.9 years for women while at the same time, if you have welcomed 65 years somewhere in the EU your expected duration of healthy life, after 65 years for men is 9.8 years for women 10.1 years, this should be the purpose of every law we bring to the Assembly, which is in this case protection at work, and this will not happen. Unfortunately, our life span is shrinking. 2 times in 3 years, which means that the duration of a healthy life, after 65 years, will be even shorter, so I invite you to reconsider once again the need for this law to go into 3 readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96715	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Final word on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So, what I'm saying is, it won't be safe for these changes, the system of protection at work in the Republic of Croatia to fail. But why are we so easily giving up some of the democratic gains we have achieved, some way of working that has been implemented, in all previous governments and HDZ and SDP governments and abandoning the principle of tripartite social dialogue? In this story, why is it more important to assess the government's assessment that since 5.1.2017, which has adopted an action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy and why is the most important most recent decision on the practical abolition of a number of governments, a number of agencies and an institution of tripartite social dialogue? I must tell you that neither, I must tell you that neither the government decisions nor the action plan, nor this September decision on the abolition of agencies and institutions, nor the final proposal for this law were preceded by a cost-effective analysis. So we don't have analytical bases, we don't have social partners involved, and we think we're gonna make progress. I know that social dialogue is difficult, burdening it, maybe you're bored with unions or employers are constantly looking for something, but it should be said that this law has come from social dialogue since 2002, and no government has the right to devastate that principle. And here we are on the trail of a good try. Therefore, my real recommendation, I want you in the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do all the best, I want us to have the best possible for our terms of the Labour Protection Act, but not without the participation of the social partners that they are autonomously expressing their interests and that they say that it is insolent to us so that we can find a new convention or we can hold it all together and forward and improve the system of protection at work. So I ask you on behalf of the fact that I don't have to vote as a man who did this and as a former member of the National Council, that I don't have to vote against this law because I've grown to the heart of this whole matter, I am asking you to accept the conclusion of the club GLAS and HSU and refer this to the third reading and restore social dialogue. We have until the new year in the third reading to do this and restore social dialogue with the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96717	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, for this final word. On behalf of the promoter, the final word is respected by State Secretary Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96718	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for your very extensive discussion. What I will refer to after the same is first and foremost just the Institute for improving protection at work, I repeat once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a conclusion called in full name on 2 August 2018: Conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutes, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority, including the Office for the Promotion of Protection of Work whose establishment and whose jurisdiction is governed by the provisions of this law from 83 to 88. That is why it was necessary to complete the final draft law in order to create a legislative framework for the implementation of that same conclusion. I especially stress that this law is not abolished, let's all look together at the conclusion of 2.8th of the 110th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so we'll see what's going on, these are only two entities, one sale, one shut-down, and 48 entities that connect with various ministries. In this case, the Institute for the Promotion of Labour Protection is going, and I will paint myself, under the hat of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. What does that mean? This means that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system will take over all jobs, found workers, property, food, other documentation and all other means of work and that there will be no delay in running current jobs, on the contrary, what we want is to raise quality in this segment. The government of the Republic of Croatia will, after the entry into force of the law, regulate the internal structure of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system in relation to the termination of the work of this institution and the takeover of its workers into the system of the resolution ministry. What I also want to say, and a lot of this has been said today is the provision of first aid. So providing first aid when we look at it systematically, then we have to say that it's both a matter of formal and informal education. In any case, it cannot be prescribed by this law on protection at work. What really matters and where we will definitely all agree, it is important that as many people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia as possible have at least the basis for providing first aid. And since we know that in the Republic of Croatia more than 2 million people have actually gone through this basic training, since we have information that more than 2 million people in Croatia have a driving licence with one of the categories, then this figure tells us about basic education on the provision of first aid. That we still need to raise awareness about it, I believe we all agree, but in any case it is the domain of the Ministry of Health, Medicine, the Croatian Red Cross, and certainly not the subject of this final law on protection of work. Another thing I would like to say, or third, is about social dialogue and how important it really is to us both as Government of the Republic of Croatia and as Ministry of Labour and Pension System. All of you here know very well that the GSV has been meeting twice a year in the Government of Croatia since we have Prime Minister Plenkovic GSV. It has not been a practice so far, and I also believe that the prime minister is very, very good at saying and proving how important social dialogue is to him. How important it is to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system we can see in one situation, which we have called for competitions that we are actually strengthening social dialogue for which we have provided 76 million kuna, according to the project it is at least 3.6 million kuna, some projects have already been signed and delivered and here I present the facts. So the results of this ministry and these governments speak best in this particular case and how important social dialogue is to us and to us. And lastly, I would just like to say, Mr Jovanovic mentioned the number of injuries reported at work, that is, the number of deaths, what should be mentioned and pointed out that each and one died too much and therefore should raise awareness of the importance of protection at work as well as prevention. However, I would just like to refer to the figures that have been in front of us for this and several previous years. Well, what should be mentioned here is that there's a growing number of injuries to work on coming and going to work. So there's a growing number of work injuries that happen in traffic, and the number of work-site injuries is growing somewhat slower year after year. In addition, the rate of injuries to the work of a thousand workers from 2011 to 2017 if we look at only the place of work then we are in '17. The year was 10.57%, which is the average of the Republic of Croatia and when we put it in the context of the EU which observes the rate of 100,000 workers, then we see that the European average is 1516 and the Croatian average is far below and is 948. So we're somewhere in the middle. In any case, far below the European average. Whoever gets ahead of that, at the rate of work injury, it's just a very developed economy. Which, of course, has to do with the slight growth observed in the past tense. And as for observed failures in employers, it should be said that one of the main causes is working with incorrect means of working and working without prescribed personal protective equipment. The work inspectorate shall regularly control everything he has to control. Reports are regularly ahead of us, the Labour Inspectorate delivered a report that only 18 were killed this year alone. I said at first, I'll say it now and there's one too many while in the previous year it was 22 fatalities. Here, for now, I look forward to replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96719	I thank the respected secretary of state Majdi Buric. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96720	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State 3 questions and please correct answers. You're saying that administrative savings, which are savings, are exactly in the interest of joining the Department of the Ministry? You're probably the only one who'd want to arrest your HDZ people there again and you couldn't go through the Bureau here. Clearly, the law does not prescribe first aid, which will be in first aid, is prescribed by the health minister but creates the obligation of the employer to conduct a first aid course. And first aid should be restored throughout life. You can't just teach her once and then forget after that. And secondly, money can't be paid for social dialogue and now you're trying to at least say in your answer that we gave money so we have a social dialogue. And besides that, you didn't give money, but the European Union is forcing us to advance social dialogue and these are EU funds, they're not yours or mine, but they're EU funds again, so don't tell us we gave it, but the EU gave it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96721	I thank my colleague Mrsic. The answer to a respected secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96722	Dear and esteemed Mr. Mrsic, don't tell us, you mentioned HDZ, don't tell HDZ what you actually did as a minister, you were talking about entanglement. So don't tell us what you did. You asked for specific information in the lip, you'll get it. Therefore, for administrative discharge related to changes in work and the organisation of the Committee on Protection on Work, disbursement of the rationalization of employers against whom I believe that no one has anything is 118 thousand 202 kuna and 3 June. Excuse me, just a little bit, administrative discharge is related to the reduction of the number of trained workers for first aid 61 million 65 thousand and 121 kuna. A total of 1790 million 267 thousand 506 kuna. ... I'll tell you later, I'm out of time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96723	I would like to thank the esteemed secretary of state for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96724	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you are often calling for this conclusion of 2 August 2018, which concerns 54 agencies from the Institute as a way to reduce costs and burdens, relieve the economy as well. However, we now see that these proposals have been changed and that they have been done without quality analysis and impact assessment, for example. The Agency for Professional Education, again related to this area, will not join the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as the Agency, the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was supposed to be attached to the Ministry of Health, but is now looking for a second solution and will reportedly connect with the Croatian Institute for Public Health, which is also a bad solution. Therefore, this decision and the government's conclusion prove to be unspeakable, swift and without the concrete effects that should have been achieved, and therefore we call for you to reconsider the conclusion on this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96725	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. State Secretary Majda Buric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96726	I thank the honourable representative Jovanovic. So you mentioned again the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Croatia, I'm glad you looked at it. I will not comment on agencies that are not within the scope of our ministry, I believe you understand that, but what I will mention once again is that it is a rationalisation of the state administration, of greater efficiency, and in any case improving the protection of the work where the institution involved is coming under the hat of our ministry will not be any less quality, but, in fact, will persist in its further quality and improvement of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96727	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96728	Dear Secretary of State, if you have listened carefully to me, I have also said that the first aid system should be regulated by the regulation and, of course, not in another way, but in a cross-resor way. But I doubt our effects and our production of the inter-resorial because I expect for a month that Minister Kujundzic and Minister Pavic will agree to increase the price for additional health insurance and there is nothing in sight. So I was very precise in that part. So that's what you're talking about. And secondly, you're stubborn enough, but I'm standing by my views, and that's a good virtue. If you care as much as you claim social dialogue, then express respect for your social partners, I did not order them to write this to me and to text me. Take a step back, send this law to third reading and set up a social dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96729	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96730	Dear Mr. Silvano Hrelja, here is my duty to explain one thing, which is exactly the supplementary insurance for pensioners whose pension is, of course, indexed according to the law and aligned to wage growth and everything else, so in the last two years, the increase in pensions has been 6.4%, although the government of Andrej Plenkovic has promised in this term, which is only half 5%, which means that we have excellent tendencies that we are very, very well breaking 5% because we are already at 6.3%. That's why some pensioners cross the price of 2,000 kuna. You mentioned well the agreement between Minister Kujundzic and Minister Pavic who in a very short time, please Mr Silvano, listen to me, we will be finished very soon, they will very soon agree and formalize the agreement
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96731	Thank you. ... I thank you, continue the debate between the respected colleagues Mrsic and Hrelja, and take the respected secretary of state for coffee after the debate is over and then conclude the debate internally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much for your response to the secretary of state. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. And once again, I would like to thank the respected Secretary of State Majdi Buric of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, Minister Drazen Opalić's adviser and service manager, Pierre Gašperov, for the reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96732	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, second reading of P.Z. No. 338. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The Club of Representatives of the Civil-Liberal Alliance and HSU proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, P.Z. No. The 338th is referred to in the 3rd reading. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. Dear Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96733	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia points out that the basis of the final draft law ceases with the work of the Labour Protection Institute, and all the tasks of the Institute are taken over by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, which is in accordance with...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96734	Wait a minute. She's a colleague of the secretary of state. So, the proposal, the conclusion came from GLAS and HSU to go with the Law in the 3rd reading. I'm asking you to show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96735	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96736	Okay, then we'll put him to the vote. You want to explain it? Yes, go ahead. [[Intruder Buric: If necessary.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96737	Thank you. Therefore, once again, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this conclusion with a reason to point out that the final proposal of the Law ceases with the work of the Ministry of Protection at work, and all the tasks of the Institute are taken over by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, which is in accordance with the section of this Ministry prescribed by Article. 12. The Act on Part-Corruption and Designation of the Ministry and other bodies of the State Administration, which states among other things that this Ministry is carrying out tasks to improve the system of protection at work. Therefore, there is no indication of any abolition of anyone or anything because all the affairs of this Institute continue to be done, but now within the framework of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, thus achieving certain administrative and financial savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96738	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96739	Mr President, I do not know how to react otherwise because it is not, the State Secretary did not explain why the Government did not accept the conclusion because the conclusion did not touch the question of the existence of the Office for the Promotion of Protection at Work but the absence of a tripartite dialogue, etc. the exclusion of social partners. I don't think the explanation has anything to do with the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96740	Okay, that's... Thank you. You can just sit down for a second. That's your opinion, and I'll put this conclusion to the vote that the government does not accept. So we vote on a conclusion that the government does not accept. I find that the proposed conclusion has not been given to the majority of votes required. We are now going to the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative Miranda Mrsic, representative of Silvano Hrelja and representative Zeljko Jovanovic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I call on the re-respected Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to show about the amendments submitted. Let's take it in a row. The first is the amendment of Mr. Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96741	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. Article 33, Article 1. The final proposal of the Law provides for the termination of the Office's work on 1.1.2019 and for the taking over of all the offices of the Institute by the Resolute Ministry, so the proposed amendment is contrary to that provision, i.e. it is contrary to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2.8 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96742	Thank you. It's obvious, my colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96743	Now I ask again did the government ever see the conclusion of the third reading? But I will answer in favour of or speak in favour of this amendment. The Institute for Improving Labour Protection is an important institution in terms of protection at work, and its abolition of this system is a step backwards, and savings can also be achieved through its merger with the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, which would be agreed by the social partners as well as their proposal. And that's why we've come to the conclusion that this comes to a third reading so that we don't completely remove two institutions for reasons that we can communicate with Europe. Europe and the EC have a European Agency for Protection at Work based in Bilbao and money from EU funds from the European Social Fund will not be able to withdraw the Ministry but these independent specialised institutions can. So we are losing a partner in the Republic of Croatia to communicate with the European institutions dealing with work protection. I am sorry that this third reading by the government was not understood because it was an opportunity to re-establish the social dialogue that was missing when this law was passed. The social partners, trade unions and employers did not take part in the adoption of this final draft of the law, as no working group was met at the ministry to adopt, or to agree on the final draft of the law. I'm really very sorry that we're doing a lot of damage to protection at work. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96744	Thank you. Now let's vote on an amendment that has no government support. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Come in, Comrade Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96745	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club, we're looking for a break, but not because of us, but because of your colleague, Madam Secretary of State Buric. So obviously it's about her first reading, even though it's a third reading or a second reading, no one knows anyone anymore, and I beg you, you left her alone again, and yet you're not okay with your HDZ colleagues leaving the secretary of state alone here. We need a break, first of all her and all of us to figure out what we're voting on. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96746	Comrade Beljak, you're looking for consultations for the HSS club regarding this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96747	We stand for women's rights. We can't leave the young secretary of state if she hasn't read it, she has to read it, then explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96748	Just a little white guy, don't underestimate him now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96749	I'm very sorry, but I think it would be correct, you've seen, all amendments, no one understands anything....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96750	You can request a stay from your colleague, Beljak, for consultations of the Club of Representatives of the HSS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96751	Okay, we'll consult, but we're giving the lady a chance to read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96752	Well, then we'll continue at 12.55. MEETING IN 12.47 HOURS. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.57 HOURS]] Please take your seats so we can move on. I'd also like a State Secretary, Your Honor Majda Buric, please. We're going with amendment number two of the representatives of Silvan Hrelje, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96754	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The currently defined concept of work-related disease was identified during the working group’s work group, which included experts from the field of medical work who proposed that concept as the most accurate in the medical sense of the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96755	Here you go, buddy Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96756	I regret once again that we have not accepted the conclusion that this goes into third reading because it is not true that the task force formed by the ministry to prepare a final bill to agree on it. It met during an earlier period and perhaps such proposals were, however, about the final draft of the law did not agree, such as not colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies did not receive such a reaction to this law by the interested public because it was not in the equipment of this law. Therefore, this law does not have as many harmful intentions as it is wrongly adopted without those which are actually intended because this law does not make any sense without the active participation of workers and their representatives of trade unions and employers and the state. It makes no sense for one party to adopt certain measures, certain definitions with which others do not agree. And it can't possibly be that the work-related disease is defined by just one partial cause that is related to work. The cause must be dominant in order for work to be declared work-related, it cannot be any cause or marginal cause. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96757	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96758	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric, I sincerely apologize to you if you saw my last performance as an insult because it was not my intention in any way. Here's my apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96759	All right. Okay. Let's move on to amendment number three of the same MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96760	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The aim of this bill is to administratively relieve the economy in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan is also implemented from January 2017 but without having a negative impact on the level of safety and protection of workers' health at the place of work in the employer and without increasing the risk of labour injuries. The promoter thus wanted to equate three categories of persons who carry out jobs of which two do not apply to the applicable law, so the aim is to equalise those who do not have other employees, also directors j.d.o.a. and d.o.o. who do not have other employees and also persons who are generally CEOs of the company but who have also concluded as such a contract of work with the company or with their company they represent. It should, however, be pointed out in particular that, thank you, Mr President, this does not in any way exclude the rights of those persons to apply labour protection and the legislative proposal is not contrary to EU directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96761	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96762	The area of protection at work is very precise. Employers also have certain rights but also obligations, workers have certain rights and certain obligations, but it is not up to the legislator to exempt certain structures from the application of protection at work and to say that the craftsmen who are self-employed or who do not have employees are exempt from applying certain provisions of this Labour Protection Act. It is not in the spirit of protection at work, in the spirit of protection at work it would be what I have proposed to you to install instead of this provision and I have suggested that no one be free of the provisions of the Labour Protection Act. He says, from the application of certain provisions of this law, you can exclude legally excluded legal and physical ones, so all persons after they prove that there is no harm and danger to life and health in the process of work, and this is brought, by my people, by the assessment of the dangers. So why would they tell me, they even mention craftsmen in this law and not legal persons who have no harm and no danger, why would they carry out that they can prove that there is no harmfulness and danger at the place of work? And secondly, in this same amendment, there are all other words that don't mean anything, and we've asked for the erasure of other specific jobs because they're taxing both firemen and the military and police and security guards who can't. What are the specific jobs that need to be free of examples of protection at work. And we suggested erasing the recognised rules of protection at work because this is about unwritten protection of work, the experience of how it should work. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96763	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number four representatives of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96764	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for the reasons of Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96765	Jovanovic's colleague is gone, so we'll vote on his amendment, the government won't accept him. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 of Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96766	The amendment is not accepted. The interpretation is also the same as for Amendment No 3, with the note that the labour protection rules and this legislative proposal are in line with all EU directives in the field of protection at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96767	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96768	Thank you very much. The European Commission has recommended that Member States expand their work protection to self-employed persons as well. I don't know why the government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't want to follow what's good in the EU. The law is in line with the directives, here I am not talking about compliance with directives but about recommendations that are not binding but are welcome and instead of following that, to oblige self-employed persons to have an obligation to implement the Labour Protection Act, you are going in the opposite direction. You want to take into account the perception of employers who believe that working protection is a cost rather than promoting the perception of the Labour Protection Act, which is the protection of workers' health. And with this government, it shows that it's going in that direction that it shouldn't go to lead the employer. When we talk about self-employed people, then in 2015 there were 165 injuries at work, we are talking about serious injuries at work, and 2016. In 127, who will be responsible when the death penalty occurs for someone who is self-employed, who will be responsible for it? This government and this minister. The minister obviously does not want protection at work to be something that Croatia can admire in the EU, but is going in the opposite direction and you are gravediggers of protection at work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96769	Would you like a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. [[Intruder Mrssic: Yes.]] I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number six of Mr. Silvan Hrelje's MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96770	The amendment is also not accepted. The reasons for the amendment's proposal give rise to an incorrect indication of the balance between the social partners, as it is the representatives of employers and trade unions who are evenly represented in the national council, since each of them represents two members of the National Labour Protection Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96771	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96772	Dear Secretary of State, obviously we operate on different wavelengths. Namely, I am a participant and former member of the National Work Protection Council, I know how it came about, it was created on the principle of equality plus a professional institution that now does not, or that will be lifted by hand today. So there were two representatives of the labour ministry, now okay, it's a good proposal to be a representative of the health ministry, two union representatives and two employers' representatives. Why couldn't you do this tripartism, or maybe some tripartism bothers you as a term, it's a very well-known social dialogue and tripartism in Europe based a lot on this concept. So it seems to me that this is underestimating the National Council because the government's domination is being dominated by representatives, here we are proposing to have three representatives of the government, two representatives of the Ministry of Labour and a representative of the Ministry of Health. If you wanted to, you could have put 3, 3, 3 to have three representatives of the government, so the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, which is very important for protection at work, three representatives of the union centres and you could have three representatives of the employer, thus including these craftsmen who in some way specifically install this time into the law. And we can talk about the importance of this national council for a very long time, namely the National Council has made a programme to develop protection at work for the term of office, but the Government has not adopted it and secondly how seriously the Government is experiencing this National Work Protection Council, says the fact that the National Council has not shown itself about the proposal for this law which is a great shame. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96773	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Seven. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96774	The amendment is not accepted as in this case the technical amendment under the syntax of documented information relating to evidence of the involvement or participation of workers or their representatives in the risk assessment process is subject to any documentation in the written, paper or electronic form confirming their inclusion. In this way, the concept of documented information is defined in the ISO quality management system and the health and safety management system at work. We believe that the concept of records is insufficient as a means of proof in the context of the involvement of workers or their representatives in the risk assessment process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96775	Here you go, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96776	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In view of the reason given now, we're giving up the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96777	Thank you. Let's go to Amendment No. 8, MP Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96778	The amendment is also not accepted, and the reasons are the same as the reasons for the amendment No. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96779	Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96780	Dear Secretary of State, I want the laws to write in a way that the whole world understands them, and not only the creators of the new language, because documented information doesn't mean too much to me at my age 60, but keeping mandatory records in protection at work as a man who worked in this profession means a lot. Finally, the Labour Act does not know the concept of documented information, but it knows how to keep the minutes, or it does so under the labour rules. Therefore, there is a precise procedure in place for the adoption of certain acts, and the assessment of the harmfulness and dangers in a particular company is an act. Therefore, labour protection is part of labour social legislation. Therefore, we cannot have one termology in one law, in another law another termology. Either we change everything or we don't change anything. So I'm not withdrawing this amendment, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96781	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 9th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96782	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the amendment in question does not prejudice the implementation of labour protection rules at work, but only reduces the minimum statutory obligations of the employer in terms of organising working protection committee meetings, and in order to make administrative discharges, so once every three months it is reduced to one in six months, with the number of held working protection committee sessions not in a direct causal relationship with the number of injuries to work, but is an emphasis on the quality of the Committee's work, rather than on the quantity. With only a minimum of this being prescribed, which does not mean that the Committee cannot meet more times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96783	Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96784	Dear Secretary of State, the Labour Protection Committee is a heart of protection at work. It is the place where they meet and where the only place where the labour inspector can come, not to punish, but to take the advisory post at the regular session of the Committee on Protection at work. It's been a convention for three months. It was a social partners agreement. Here it is changed without the consent of the social partners and employers and unions within 6 months, which is not correct towards them, which is to degrade the social partners or to place them in one higher level of the institution of the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, this attitude is collapsing with you. Labour Act No. In 199 where, under the Labour Act, the employer is obliged to inform his employees once every three months of the state of technology, the state of harmfulness and danger. So it's not about some one-time meetings. These people are so paid and so a specialist in medicine work is paid by contract. It is therefore his obligation to attend a meeting of the Work Protection Committee. The expert is either employed or contract-related to the employer, no savings, no new costs, there are only reducing possible prevention of injuries, harmfulness and hazards at work. So I don't see any improvement or only less will be able to deal with the Committee with improving the work protection situation, and not more, and this is much easier to do in a more casual than the forced atmosphere when something happens. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96785	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 10th Representative Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96786	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, and the argument is also the same as the justification for amendment No. Nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96787	Since there are no colleagues, Jovanovic must vote. Let's approach the vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11th Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96788	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. It is also the same as for previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96789	Here you go, dear Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96790	Thank you very much. Changing the laws taking into account the perception of employers from the administrative cost of labour protection laws is at least harmful, unserious and irresponsible. And here the government was supposed to do something completely different. As far as I know and that's the secretary of state and she said, saving is 100,000 kunas, so it's not 10 million, it's not 100 million kuna, but 100,000 kuna is saving this amendment. And the Labour Protection Committee is crucial as a place of dialogue between the employer and the worker when something can happen or something happens and it is a way of overcoming conflict situations. If there's no second step is labour inspection, and then there's a lot of things that can happen in that surveillance. These 100,000 kuna savings will be spent on some 10 or 15 visits of the protection inspector at work where there will be penalties, which means 10 times 10 000 kunas of the protection inspector at work will cancel out entirely this savings instead of the fine of 10,000 kuna that he held up and met the Committee of Protection at work and dealt with it before something unwanted happened. Furthermore, in today’s electronic communication, the Committee on Labour Protection does not need to be held in one place, people can be in different places. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96791	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to amendment number 12 of the representatives of Silvan Hrelje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96792	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The number of trained workers to provide first aid in relation to the number of workers has been amended, noting that the final proposal stressed that the number of trained and appointed first-aid workers must correspond to the number of employer's locations, as well as shift work and other organisational circumstances with the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96793	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96794	It's done again as so far as the law was 20, so it could've been 5, so it could've been 100, so it could've been a thousand workers one. It's a social partners agreement, you change that deal after 20 employees where we have to have one man trained to provide first aid, you raise it to 50. At the same time, you say in all places if the place of work is set aside, if it is a shift, a first-aid worker must again be trained. Well, it would be a better formulation to wipe out 20 and 100 of them and say you have to be trained to provide first aid everywhere a worker is needed and let's get all the workers able to provide first aid to others like everyone else, except for fellow Furia we have the first aid laid down for the driver's license. A colleague doesn't have a driver's license, but we would have to, surely, rebuild it every 2, 3 or 5 years because, of course, technologies change and give defibrillators, they're being placed in cities because we live in another way and of course we should work in another way. Of course, one rule should be adopted on the training of citizens on the provision of first aid, inter-minor, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour, and who else? Enough. But we've never done anything interresorically. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96795	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Vice President Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96796	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is common and traditional 238. Because of the intentional inaccuracy. I passed first aid, it's not true that I didn't pass first aid, although the truth is I don't have a driver's license, but I passed the first aid and at any point when the pensioner will need first aid I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96797	Because you don't have a driver's license I'll give you a warning yet. We're going to Amendment 13 of Representatives Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96798	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The reasons are the same as the reasons for amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96799	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14 of dear fellow Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96800	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, and the justification is the same as for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96801	Here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96802	This extremely inadmissible thing about the Labour Protection Act, I will remind myself of a recent event that took place about a month ago, but I will also remind you of all those other events when it was necessary to provide first aid to someone who needed the first aid. Training for first aid is not one-time, it is carried out during and education and for here to be laid down in a car school, but it is also extremely valuable to restore during life is first aid is something that will save someone's life. And the secretary of state said in the debate, that we would save 60 million kunas to employers. And I wonder if one human life is worth 60 million kunas, whether human life has a price at all, and this is what you put the cost of one man's life, woman, child, or anyone else's. To say that enough is one person to be trained to provide first aid is obvious that you do not know what happens in times of panic. So are people going to yell, ask if he's the one who can resuscitate, where's the one who can turn the patient on the side so he doesn't choke? What if this man who's trained to provide first aid wants to defibrillate himself, he wants to turn himself on his own? So where's your humanity? What did you do that for? Because that's something that Europe also knows that companies train all their employees to provide first aid because it's something that's good for society. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96803	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the 15th Amendment of Agent Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96804	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The employer shall, however, be obliged to comply with the applicable provisions of Article 62(3), to have available documentation at the site within the time limit set by the competent inspector, and it shall be perfectly rational to extend the prescribed time limit for the possession of documentation and protection at work at the temporary site in relation to works which are shorter than 30 days and extends to 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96805	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96806	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We don't arrange protection at work because of inspectors and the potential savings of employers, but for the safety and protection of workers' health. It's the only thing they have and what they bring into the process of work. So if we've violated their safety and their health obviously that we're very poor at work, then the employer doesn't have much use for it because he has to pay compensation, etc. So I don't see any logic in keeping this documentation on a construction site. Of course, if the site lasts for 10 days, this one won't be 60 days on the site, it'll take as long and be on the site as it is living and building. And I'm taking the opportunity here because this is my last amendment that once again as a man who has been working on protection and who I always have an eye on and who and who I was and I was a member of the National Council for Protection at Work, I'm sorry that this machequerade relationship to this extremely human activity, the activities of general interest and that in some ways this is not a promotion, savings can't be an improvement of the system of protection at work. The improvement of work protection must be new steps, new creativity from creating new spaces and new opportunities. So I regret once again that you have not accepted the conclusion that this is going into third reading, to restore dialogue with the social partners and to respect them. Because without your social partners, you're losing credibility. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96807	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 16th Honored colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96808	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The promotion of the provision came from work, working groups and the emergency medical care term is exclusively related to the provision of such assistance by a healthcare professional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96809	There are no colleagues, Jovanovic, so we must vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 17th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96810	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. The provisions of paragraph 4 to which the amendment is referred shall not be amended in relation to the applicable provision of the law and shall, as such, constitute a minimum of hours for which the employer is obliged to provide compensation to the protection officer at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96811	Let's vote again because there are no colleagues, Jovanovic. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 18 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96812	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96813	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 19th Amendment of Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96814	The amendment is not accepted. Article 33(1) of the final draft law provides for the termination of the work of the Institute on 1.1.2019 and for the acquisition by the Resorient Ministry of Labour and Pension System, of all the activities of the Institute, of the funds provided for in the performance of the activities, rights and obligations, of the savings, as well as of other documents relating to the tasks carried out by the Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96815	Thank you. Let's vote on this amendment. He doesn't have a colleague, Jovanovic. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the last amendment of fellow Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96816	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment and the argument is the same as for Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96817	Here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96818	Thank you very much. So this is the last nail to protect at work in Croatia that something that has been nurtured in Croatia for years, something that has had a liquid for 40 years, 50 years in Croatia with this disappearing from Croatia. And what the government is doing, it's doing to save a letter and two kunas per worker. Gentlemen 2 kunas will be saved per worker in Croatia, the abolition of this Law. At the same time, 20m euros will be lost, which are available to this institution to improve protection at work from EU funds. Because by crossing this office at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, he can no longer use those funds. And by adopting this law, Croatia will lose 20m euros in EU funds because it will not have anyone to withdraw them. The Institute proved itself to be the place where the meeting place was held, the place where talks and arrangements were discussed, the place, therefore, the institution that had very good initiatives, improved protection at work and was recognised in Croatia both by employers and workers. And the abolition of this institution, definitely, protection at work, as it should be in Croatia, according to the EU and what is in the EU, de facto we are going back and I am not sure that after 5 or 6 years when someone asks why we did it, they will probably not remember why they will be in Brussels in their chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96819	Thank you. Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Let's go to the last amendment, the Legislative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96820	Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96821	It becomes an integral part of the law. I thank the Secretary of State, and we are going to vote on the final draft of the Law, amending and supplementing the Labour Protection Act, please vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 1 abstention and 21 votes against, a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96822	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, first reading, P.Z. No 445 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure before we give the word to the State Secretary of Justice, here you go, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96823	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You have now said that, with the draft law, we have received reports from competent working bodies, meaning the Committee on Law and the home body of the Committee on Human Rights. I have responded with the breach of the Rules of Procedure because there are no reports on the website of the parent board of Human Rights, and for this I am, I say, and I say, claiming that the Rules of Procedure has been injured because it is not possible to discuss the law in the first reading without the report of the home body. We haven't even seen him as agents yet, you haven't published him yet, I checked it out a few seconds ago, so if you've been written routinely that he exists, he's gone. I don't even know if there's been a board meeting, you don't have reports on the website, and without the parent body's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96824	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. I have not read that we have received the report, but I have said that the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the report was sent to all parliamentary deputies and MPs at 17 o'clock and 12 minutes, so I would ask you nicely to check your email box and then let's see. Thank you very much for this. And now I call upon the representative of the proposer of the respected State Secretary of Justice, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Turkalj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96825	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable MPs and MPs before you is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Notifiers against Irregularity. This bill is a legal act that is actually implemented and implemented in the same way as the anti-corruption strategy. We know that both in the private sector and in the public sector, there is a risk of illegality, and that is why this area should be regulated. This area has so far been fragmented in a series of laws, canceled laws, labour laws, the Law on civil servants and others. The 2014 anti-corruption report of the European Commission pointed to the lack of a boring awareness of the necessary protection, so-called what we call them whistlers. We did a comparative analysis after that, of all the systems that exist in Europe, and we concluded that it is necessary to approach the full resolution of this matter. What are the main... which you can find in this legislative proposal, they refer to the first time as a definition of the applicant of irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That applicants of irregularities are extended, not only concern not only the public sector, but are also extended to the private sector. And very important, we have opened several channels of reporting irregularities. We have an initial channel of internal application, within the right person itself, we have an external one, where we've set up an office of the attorney general, i.e., the attorney general's office as a body, and we have a disclosure in the case of when, it's exceptional when there's a danger of major damage. Here, the promoter proposes that this law be supported and we think that this will significantly improve the level and awareness of the need to protect whistles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96826	I thank the respected Secretary of State, Mr Turkalj, for this further explanation of the bill, we have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96827	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I agree with you that this law will surely bring one improvement in the protection of all persons to whom they report corruption in good faith. However, like the previous law, we have had one marked dissatisfaction with the social partner, in this case there is a lack of satisfaction from the Ombudsman's Office, whose body should become key and competent for external reporting irregularities. The attorney general's office has been insinuating on several occasions with the idea, too, it has not been more strongly involved in the construction and preparation of this law since the very beginning, so I'm curious whether, in the meantime, you are on the trail of someone else's body to take over the powers that you've imagined should be exercised by this Office, given that there are problems of constitutionality, if that's what the Attorney General's Office would do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96828	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, Mr. Secretary of State, do you want to respond or will you eventually? ... Okay, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96829	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, many, among other things, have expressed their dissatisfaction with this bill of yours. In addition, this law only takes effect after 2020 and this should be done on the day of adoption and what concerns is, the fact that the government does not really want to protect whistles, I have one case, tomorrow it will come here, thanks to the president of the National Anti-Corruption Council, Damir Sabelak, a diplomat, will come in one hour to talk about the illegal spending of money in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. The man is not a whistler, because what he's about to say is publicly available documents, but even today, such people are being threatened, the Ministry's rule has been passed, where he's being banned from any public statement and he's going to suffer the consequences of it. And this law won't protect anyone, this is fog, this is a clean make-up, and I think you could have made a much more serious approach to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96830	Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96831	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Proposer, Secretary of State. The first thing I wanted to ask, and I didn't even know it was going to happen, why unusually, when you propose this bill, so here, we have to discuss it almost immediately, today because we just got a report from the board, why you predict that this law should take place more than a year later, so in early 2020 when it is realistic that we, after the first reading, have a second reading during this year, which is why they think it takes a year to pass some sublegal act, since, according to your proposal, there is no need to form, some special body, any special service that would be set up to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96832	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Robert Dolnjak. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I'm opening a debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96833	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, representatives of the ministry. Here we have also experienced that day that HDZ came to fight in the Croatian Parliament against corruption, they passed the law. Of course, they put it as the last item of the agenda in the hour when here it is, how many, ten MPs still present, when no one follows the debate, so it was in March, when it was the law of the Living Wall. Let's see what comes out of it, even though I think in advance the best fight might be against corruption, let's just say the HDZ will end itself. That would be an ideal fight. I think the level of corruption would immediately decrease by one 90% in Croatian society. Given that I repeat once again that the law is presented, the Living Wall on the same subject in March, I will now just repeat here the emphasis from what I already said a few months ago and then I will give an analysis and comparison of our law to this law that is before us today. I repeat, therefore, that the Law on Reporters is an irregularity or popular whistles needed because Croatian society is fed up with decades of injustice and unfortunately we have brought ourselves into such a state that many citizens are beginning to think that evil can no longer be fought, that there is no point in political or civil struggle. It is believed that horns should not be impeded, that the system is incorrigible, that honesty is flawed, and that an honest man only makes himself troubles and basically works against himself. People begin to accept the immoral idea that abuses are a reflection of resourcefulness, or necessity, in order to do something in life. In particular, it contributes to the poor situation in the judiciary, in institutions and citizens, they end up believing that the laws in this country exist only and only to punish those who are insubordination and incomparable and not for being applied equally to everyone. Citizens are set on fire in... and eventually, when everything becomes enough for them instead of fighting, resort to the simplest solution, which is to leave Croatia together with their families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is very important to stress that people leave the country not so much because of low wages but primarily because they are deeply disappointed in the institutions of our country and in the state of society. Why is the whistle-wrestle law even being passed? Well, the whistle bill is being passed just because they're a target, a target of persecution. Because in our society, therefore, a man who is honest becomes a persecuted beast. And that's why this law finally came before us but I repeat after decades, only after the Living Wall proposed its own law, only after the Council of Europe forced Croatia to actually start making that law and only after it was practically adopted by all the countries of Europe and even those not EU members as Serbia and Kosovo. The terror of whistles is being conducted on a number of levels and I believe that most Croatian citizens either felt it or witnessed it. That terror is verbal and often physical. It is manifested through demeaning, through accusations, through threats, that whistles are actually eternal dissatisfactions, professional critics, people who actually create problems, in fact want a bigger salary, a better status although it is essentially quite different and that whistlers are honestists, people say suckers who believe in the system and think that when they see something wrong and then they tell someone that they're going to do something about it. Of course, by the reactions they experience, not only do their hopes not meet but they experience complete disappointment. Their position in the workplace gets worse overnight, the company isolates them, transfers them to less important jobs, cuts their jobs, gives them the hardest or impossible tasks, creates an atmosphere where other workers begin to avoid them or even write petitions against them, forces them to visit medical examinations, e.g. psychiatrists, they're threatened with disciplinary measures, punished, called inspections, threatened with lawsuits. And eventually, the whistler, either forced or voluntarily, for about a year or so, often because of poor health caused by victimisation, leaves his job in order to make it longer because he can no longer be employed, often neither he nor the members of his family must sell out property to survive, to pay court costs because then usually the lawsuits arrive, the revenges arrive. And they just become shadows from the former people. It's not just about the personal tragedies of whistlers, it's about the great tragedy of a state losing huge resources because of the lack of the whistler law because 30% of our assets go to the gray economy, through tax evasion. Because 30% of our indictments are dropping because no one wants to testify. So 30% of the charges under the Penal Code fall at the end because simply witnesses either refuse to testify or withdraw their testimony. As a result, they suffer budgets, they suffer social benefits, they suffer pensions, education, the state must be in debt, in fact, the consequences are multiple. Let's see what's been brought here today in the Parliament. We have a law proposed by the Justice Department's working group, the first down is that she didn't talk to the whistlers themselves, so they passed the whistlers' law without consulting those they should of course care about. Furthermore, this work together, I repeat once again, did so reluctantly, only after the EU council's guidance, only after the pressures carried out by the Living Wall and other parties as well as the citizens' associations because they felt that whistles were allegedly already protected in Croatian legislation, that there were 7 and more laws protecting whistles, and we know that in practice there was nothing. What remains to be suspected, except that the law is not in line with the expectations of those people who have suffered persecution, is that the law will only apply from 1 January 2020, which is very unusual, given that it is a law that does not require any financial means and the question is why would the law not apply immediately from the day when it was adopted? What is particularly controversial is that so far whistlers, meaning people who have reported irregularities so far in no way compensated, in any way not rehabilitating, and in no way return their dignity to them. It turns out that all those who have reported irregularities have actually been, let's say one of the brighter points in Croatian society, practically left at the mercy and mercy of those who have harassed them so far, and it's really not right because some categories of citizens deserve to be recognized for what they did before, and not just what they're going to do in the future, we have, for example. and the Law on defenders who have now been reactivated and they have defended Croatia, of course, and whistles defend Croatia, and the law cannot be passed by those who will defend Croatia. 20 years. If someone did good to this country, they should admit it. And there are many whistles in Croatia, dozens and hundreds of them who have put everything they have on the line and their own life to fight crime, and now there's a state saying that you've been doing it for yourself in private, these are your problems. We will only recognize the real whistlers from 1.1.2020, which is simply very, very ugly, not to say rude. Such an intention, such conduct does not honor the ruling majority. Also, what is not good in the law is not a good thing that whistlers will report irregularities to their employer, although not directly to him, but to the person whom this employer has appointed, so it is truly amazing, not to say absurdly that the whistler will report to the person who makes an irregularity practically to it. And how it is meant to protect anonymity, how it is meant to protect that notifier, in which way it is even meant to motivate and encourage that reporting irregularities is not clear. The living wall suggested that whistles protect an independent body that would then, instead of whistles, report to DORH crime, monitor, monitor and rush case resolution and truly and ultimately protect the identity of whistlers. Because here it may occur that the whistler reports this Commissioner's irregularity, and after that, he doesn't know at all what's going on with his file, whether at all what's going on, what's going on, what's going on and what's going on afterwards, what's going on in some gray zone. What Live Wall suggested was also the protection of family members, which is very important because family members are also persecuted, whistle children cannot get a job, married partners are fired and should be protected too. We suggested that priority be given to employment, to provide health care, to exempt them from court costs, all of this in this bill is not included. What we specifically suggested as useful was an article to give everyone whistles to reward up to a million kuna in money, depending on the damage they report, because we are fully convinced that corruption in Croatia would then be halved, if not more. With such an incentive, along with all the other measures that I have listed, be sure that people would finally feel motivated to report everything that is bad, starting with the payout of salaries on their hands, all to which groups of Borg and other monsters that appear in Croatian political life. I repeat that because I believe that for any kuna that would be paid to the whistler in the budget, it would save at least 10 and probably a lot more. The draft law provides for the implementation of the bill on whistlers, EUR 200 000. So 200 000 kuna, that's to forgive the budget of a smaller association, a rural fire company or something that you, for the whole law, so important a law, a crucial law, give such modest funds. It is important to note that the law, mentioned, is not satisfied either in the Office of the Attorney General, is not satisfied in the trade unions, which you could read during the public consultation. Therefore, in the Living Wall, we believe that the bill does not define all the necessary and concrete measures to protect whistles, nor has their way of implementing them in practice been elaborated, nor will whistles of the new law be protected from persecution and suffering when reporting crime and corruption, especially those whistles, which have so far reported irregularities. It is obvious that there is no political will in Croatia, for consistent fight against crime and the right to protect whistles. Therefore, for now the Living Wall cannot accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96834	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. And the name of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96835	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Representatives, the Honorable Fellows. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, which will be supported by the HDZ Club. Until now, the Republic of Croatia has not had a full law that would in a unique way regulate the problem of the protection of auditors of irregularities or whistles. On the other hand, in the Croatian legislation, we had a number of laws that regulated this matter, so that it was provided for both criminal legal protection and protection of layoffs at work, protection against discrimination against whistles after application, and working other forms of protection, in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Law, the Law on Trade, the Law on Labour, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional regional self-government, then the Law on the Protection of Information, the Law on the Internal Control in the Public Sector, the Law on the Criminal Procedure also contains a whole series of provisions that prescribe protection of the endangered witness. When drawing up draft proposals for this law, international standards for the protection of whistles, in particular recommendations from the 2014 Council of Europe for the protection of whistles, also international conventions and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and a series of other and 2003 conventions ratified by Croatia in 2005 and in order not to list. In addition, this law provides for the protection of applicants of irregularities not only in public authorities but also in private employers. In fact, whether someone is an employee of the ministry, of the city or of the municipality, of a private person, of a craftsman, of a company, will have secured protection by this very law. Furthermore, this law clearly defines the concept of irregularities, a notifier of irregularities that can enjoy protection as a notifier. The existing legislation did not show who was considered a whistler, or rather, it was not known when a certain person became a whistler. The same term can easily be identified with the term of a endangered witness or a crown witness. Furthermore, this proposal also extends the scope of irregularities. It does not only concern cases of corruption, but also includes irregularities regarding violations of laws and other regulations, further, unconscious management of public goods, public funds, even EU funds, which is very important when we know that 80% of public investment is currently financed from EU funds. Furthermore, this bill also provides protection not only for persons in employment in relation to the Labour Act, but also for the protection of persons such as volunteers, students, persons working through an act contract, i.e. those involved in the activity of the employer, whether he is a natural or legal person or even candidates in employment procedures, which is very important. In general, the bill also stressed the prohibition to prevent the reporting of irregularities, to prohibit the placing of the applicant of irregularities in an unfavourable position, but the need to act as applicant for irregularities in good faith and to prohibit abuse of the application of irregularities. This draft bill stresses that the applicant of irregularities is entitled to judicial protection, compensation for damages and so on, and not only those who report it, but also persons associated with the applicant of irregularities. The need to assist the applicant of irregularities by the court and the other body conducting the proceedings is also highlighted, as the applicant may and may not know all the rights and rights of abuse, so this law stresses exactly the need to assist the applicant by a court or a drug authority leading the proceedings. Furthermore, this bill also prescribes ways of reporting irregularities, we have, internally external and certain situations of disclosure to the public. It is also prescribed that a confidential person be treated on receipt of an application within 60 days from the date of receipt of the notification of irregularities, the obligation to provide feedback, the protection of the identity of the applicant and the confidentiality of the application itself. The legislator’s intensities are that the applicant first tries to protect himself in internal reporting procedures or, in the case of the employer himself in the house where the irregularity occurs. As regards the procedure for the external reporting of irregularities, numerous international documents and recommendations provide for the establishment of a competent authority for the protection of whistles and this law foresees that these irregularities are carried out by a public defender precisely because he has the greatest and richest experience with cases where individuals have suffered a certain form of retaliatory action. Furthermore, after receiving the application, the Ombudsman has certain obligations to examine, forwarding to the competent authorities, keeping the identity and ultimately informing the Croatian Parliament of the protection of the irregularities themselves. As with this occasion, we will certainly get statistics on how many of these applications there are, we will be able to track them year by year whether they are growing and who may be missing the law itself which should be changed in order to make these irregularities any less and to have as good and greater protection as possible of our so-called. The whistle. The law also provides for a situation where the applicant of irregularities may disclose information to the public and it was particularly important to prescribe the urgency of the judicial protection proceedings. In order to ensure that this law is not only declared by the court, it also contains procedural provisions which provide for the submission of several different types of action and all in order to protect applicants of irregularities and by the court provides for the possibility of an urgent determination of provisional measures in order to prevent irreparable damage to applicants of irregularities. The law as a newspaper also provides for the possibility of setting temporary measures by the court and, within 8 days of the receipt of the proposal, so as to protect the applicant of irregularities within an urgent period of time from retribution. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96836	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev Martinchev. The following has been registered for discussion on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club by a respected colleague, Anka Mark Taritash. She's not present. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here are some polls that only 4% of Croatian citizens would report corruption. It's approximately on the trail of the number of MPs right now, 4% it's 6 MPs, so somehow we seem to be at that level tied up when we're discussing this important law. Raising public awareness is in fact the key way of encouraging citizens to report corruption is to ensure success in the fight against corruption because without citizens who are witnesses of corruption, who report corruption indirectly that there will be no results. However, without an effective judiciary at the same time, we will not improve public awareness of the need to report corruption. We are witnessing that Croatia has in the last two years a still devastating index of perception of corruption and is classified in corrupt countries. So 4% of citizens would report corruption or maybe it sounds more striking when we say that 96% of citizens would not report corruption if they were witnesses of corruption. It is therefore important to pass this bill on whistles but equally as soon as the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I repeat once again, without effective justice, without effective justice, without judgments, without confiscation of property acquired by corruption, there will be no trust of citizens in the system, there will be no trust in the judiciary and in vain and the best Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity unless it is followed simultaneously by an effective judiciary. According to the corruption perception index, as I said in a circle of corrupt countries, which means foreign investment in Croatia will be lower, thus there will be less money for education, for health care, social care, quality life. This will mean a bigger departure of young people from Croatia, a worse demographic picture because when you ask young people why they leave Croatia one of the reasons that is at the very top is corruption. Therefore, the protection of whistles is in fact a recognition of the importance of the role of applicants of irregularities in the fight against non-transparentity and corruption, which is one of the priorities in the EU. The position and protection of whistle-whispering people is being exposed to corruption and crime at the workplace deserved in the EU by increasing attention both to public policy makers and to the public. Instead of enjoying some protected position and obtaining a kind of reward for the bold move to report irregularities in the work with the aim of protecting public interest, whistles are unfortunately also rarely faced in Croatia with the extremely negative consequences of job loss, lawsuits, insults and so-called different achievements that discourage many people who have knowledge to report corruption. And I met a couple of whistles that after they reported the illegalities they witnessed actually said that they regretted what they did because they were faced with shagging, with the inability to advance, with the mobbing might say, that I'm not talking about those who got beat or fired, not rarely as a consequence of their noble intentions to point out the corrupting actions that took place in the middle where they worked. Therefore, the protection of whistles and the prevention of the adverse consequences mentioned is necessary for an effective and systematic fight against corruption and irregular management. A number of documents are also mentioned in the EU today on the need for regulation of this area, in particular the 2014 Council of Europe recommendations, which are also very important in April 2018, which list a number of new standards at EU level that wish to ensure a high level of protection of whistles that report violations of EU law and the establishment of safe reporting channels both within organisations and public bodies. It is sought as high-quality protection of whistles from layoffs, setbacks, inability to advances and other revenges that are currently possible. It is important to stress that this EU proposal actually provides a very wide range of areas within which to provide space for the protection of whistles, where this area extends to both public procurement and financial services and money laundering, financing terrorism, product safety, transport safety, safety of the environment, nuclear safety, food and food safety, animal health and welfare, public health, consumer protection, privacy and data protection, network information systems. This proposal includes... EU rules on competition, infringement and abuse of profit tax rules and harming the EU's financial interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many of these proposals and directives are included in the legislative proposal that we are discussing today, which is certainly commendable. What is controversial in the proposal that we have, therefore, is without a doubt a shift, but the impression is that the proposed draft law cannot, however, achieve what the EU is asking for, but what we ourselves would like, therefore, a more effective fight against corruption. In this draft law, which is pointed out by many, the emphasis has been placed on ensuring channels for reporting irregularities and principles, but the way whistles are protected by us at the SDP club, but also by many co-workers and those who participated in the public debate is still underdeveloped and we expect it to be improved until the second reading. It is also not prescribed that and within what time limits, in the context of the application of this law, bodies should be dealt with in the fight against corruption such as USKOK and inspection services, although this is essential for the effective resolution of the application and protection of whistles. It is also insufficient to report internally when the application is being examined by a confidential person selected by the employer, which may allow cover-up. We think this should be handled better. According to this proposal, the employer would not have the obligation to involve workers in selecting a confidential person, nor to inform the external body of the application itself, which makes the procedure insufficiently effective and not transparent enough. There are also no sanctions provided for, for example, trying to prevent the application or influence on the work of a confidential person. What I have also said to the Secretary of State in the opening line, I will now point out once again, so the proposal for this law provides that the attorney general's office will be the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities. However, as we could read from the public debate, as we could hear from the public hearings of the Ombudsman, this institution has no constitutional authority, because among the irregularities in the reasoning of the proposal there are also, for example, those in the field of public procurement, terrorist financing, nuclear security, animal health and welfare that are not threatened by the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens, so the Ombudsman does not have the authority or to question them. Therefore, many believe that if the law is adopted in this form, its purpose will not be fulfilled, and the path will be opened to initiate the procedure with the assessment of its constitutional consent with the Constitution. What should certainly be commended that this law provides for the protection of applicants of irregularities, not only in public authorities, but also in private employers, which is in line with Council of Europe's recommendations. Here's a colleague before me talked about some of these elements so I won't repeat them, but I would certainly like to point out that this bill allows for the applicant of irregularities to protect not only persons in working relationship with the labour law, but also protection provided to a wider circle of persons such as volunteers, students, persons working through an act contract, i.e. who participate in... employers who can be a natural and legal person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore particularly valuable to suggest that this law also covers persons who participated as candidates in employment procedures because there were rarely many different benefits and corrupt activities, blue envelopes, etc. We are also asked why the date of entry into force is so far away and we do not think it should wait until then. Finally, we as a SDP club at this stage will be abstentioned just as an incentive to legislation that until the second reading of this particular irregularity corrects, the solution makes it more quality to make it more thought-out, better elaborated because in this case such a thoughtful, under-developed will be disabled effective removal of irregularities and adequate protection of whistles. Such a draft still missed the opportunity to significantly strengthen the fight against corruption in Croatia by building a complete system that would create conditions for the safe reporting of irregularities, their effective examination, removal and sanctioning, as well as provide adequate protection for all whistles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96838	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96839	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues who have stayed here to listen to the debate. Too bad we're not actually discussing this law in some more attractive term because I think he deserves full attention. The fact is that very often we happen in society situations, not to say the affairs that undermine our institutions, which undermine citizens' confidence in institutions, and this bill is about actually building an institute that doesn't exist with us at this moment, that is, to create a confidence mechanism that institutions can do their job. All speakers before me mentioned that I do not think that the Republic of Croatia has so far had a full law that would in a unique way edit this issue, but was scattered by a number of laws, I think that someone and those laws have listed it, and now we have a proposal that tries to put it all in one place and which is represented and which is one important anti-corruption measure, which is therefore also derived from working material because it is also a recommendation of the European Commission from 2014, that this is actually based on the Council of Europe's recommendation on the protection of whistles, but what is really what is most important, which is the result of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2015-2020, which has adopted one of the previous governments, so this should not be one party matter of politics but a matter of a regulated society, and at the end of the day, and this is the result of the action plan for implementing the mentioned strategy, which actually states the strengthening of the legal framework for the adoption of this legislation. I point out this for the reason why and, I think it should always be stressed when some law should be stressed when a law is proposed in the context of the implementation of a strategy or action plan because it should be commended, unfortunately it is not the rule in our case, so then any such situation should actually be commended because it is, in fact, the consequence of some long-term policy when respecting a strategic document that I say should not be a party matter of a government but of strategic thinking. What I would like to point out, therefore, is the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a domestic obligation but is also a signator of international conventions that provide for the protection of people who report corruption in good faith. I mentioned these recommendations of the Council of Europe which should be monitored by one Council of Europe, namely GRECO, which is certainly not a threat to the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but it is also important to mention that in some ways GRECO participated indirectly in the drafting of this law, because Mr Mr Mrcela, who was a member of the Working Party for Lawmaking, is also the president of the GRECO Group of States against the corruption of the Council of Europe. This is what this obligation stems from international regulations, from our strategy, but this obligation, in my opinion, stems from the social climate. When we look at the Eurobarometer survey, for example, at the level of Europe, each third European believes that 29% of them do not report corruption because they believe there is no protection for those who report it and a total of 49% of respondents would not know at all if they were witnesses of corruption, they would not know where to report corruption. Only 15% of respondents were aware that there were at all some rules on the protection of whistles, so the research that exists at EU level, which I mentioned and there are others. If we look at some research in the Republic of Croatia, so one survey was conducted in 2010 as part of the IPA project, strengthening the capacity of USKOK, I think an enviable 57% of respondents would report corruption, but we have the same large number of those who would not. Compared to those who would not report corruption, 30% would not report it because they would be afraid, so there would be fear of the consequences of reporting corruption, 27% actually consider that they would have some negative connotations, that they would actually be stigmatized, that they would have suffered negatively constantly the environment, that traitors, comrades or something like that, and 25% think that they really don't have to report corruption because they can't even prove it. In any case, it is necessary to distinguish what is called in theory the protest whistle from those watchman whistles, so first they can be the product of pure one evil intention while others actually report because they care about the common good and this second one actually deserves our protection. If we look at what the aim of this law is, the aim is to protect applicants of irregularities effectively but, in my view, besides the protection of whistles, that should protect people from trust, or something else I will talk about. We also need to protect journalists especially those dealing with investigative journalism and should protect civil sector activists, so from civil society dealing with the problem of corruption and reports of irregularities. It is already said here, in fact, what this law and the fact that the law provides for the application of the protection of applicants of irregularities not only in public authorities but also in private employers, which is a good solution, I would now say some concrete views and objections, would try to avoid what my colleagues were saying earlier, but I will have to repeat myself somewhere. First, which is the body responsible for the applications, so I believe that there was a dilemma in the task force whether to choose an existing independent body that must therefore be very institutional and independent or to form someone new. I believe that the formation of an independent new body may not be well received in the public and we have certain institutions that have been developed and which have so far produced results such as the Commissioner or the Commissioner for Access to Right Information or the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The source of the motion has fallen on the attorney general, I think that with all the dilemmas and discussions through the debate and I don't think the choice is bad, personally I think it's actually good that the institution of the attorney general remains independently strong that dilemma and doubt which may be resolved by the Constitutional Court, if the law is voted in this form. However, the fact is that the Ombudsman has an institutional experience of considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities and in the work of the national authorities and bodies of the unit of local self-government, and, in accordance with specific laws, also considers complaints, according to specific laws and complaints relating to the work of legal and natural persons. So, to conduct both in the public and private sectors. In addition, the European Commission, i.e. the European Commission and the European Parliament and the European Council, in considering the new directive, mention the European Network of Public Advocates, which plays an important role in the reporting procedures of whistles and co-ordinates the European obusman with that network, and they believe that the European obsusman could actually draw up a report with information that could have been provided by all these obsessors on the very subject of whistle protection and that such a single report could be discussed both before the Commission and before the European Parliament. So we're not lonely in that consideration. As regards these other concrete solutions, the appointment of a confidential person to receive a report of irregularities. The question arises, when we look at it, as proposed in the law, whether it is a person, a person who is of the trust of an employer or of the trust of a worker, means the law provides for him to be appointed an employer. We have a situation that we have Ethics Commissioners, but I'm saying, this may be a more serious matter, I think the technology of choice, Commissioner, that is, classified persons should be regulated differently, because this person needs to be protected in quality. Because if she is doing her job well, she can come under the influence of the employer and, in my opinion, the employer would have to be sanctioned if she interferes in any way in the work of that person, i.e. in part with the conduct of the application procedure against irregularities. In addition, for public authorities bodies, the employer shall have a private sector that employs at least 50 employees and shall be required to regulate the internal registration procedure by means of a regulation or other general act. Is that border well-defined? If we look at the proposal for a directive, it is not a valid directive, it also foresees, for example, all companies with more than 50 employees or an annual turnover of more than 10 million euros, will have to have an internal procedure. I think the proposer should consider perhaps lowering this 50-employee line. I believe that this has been discussed with both trade unions and employers, employers may consider it to be a new burden or imposition for them, perhaps it should be considered not to be a limit for the number of employees, but to be a limit for the company's income because the company may have not know 10 employees and very large revenues. So I think it may be necessary to consider that this limit is changed for everyone and that other countries' experiences may be seen in terms of defining the unfavourable position of applicants in the legal article, i.e., an item that says what is considered to be an unfavourable position. It means that it is not only an expression of the strict measures or penalties, but also the launch of any kind of strict or disciplinary procedure, etc. etc. I think it should be made clear here that it's not a closed list of circumstances. Okay, well, that's fine with me, too, so it wasn't clear enough, but I think we should open up life situations can happen and we can't predict everything by law. And what I find very important is that this law is followed by additional measures. Additional measures for the quality implementation of this law, I am not even sure which measures would be included in the bill's proposal, I am also referring to the education of officials with the aim of effective law enforcement, and also to the implementation of a promotional campaign, raising awareness and awareness of the problem of whistlers and at encouraging, the reporting of irregularities, the printing of educational materials, the introduction of perhaps telephone lines, the provision of free legal assistance, psychosocial assistance to whistlers. I believe that some of this will be implemented because the implementation of the proposed measures is envisaged and will be envisaged by the action plan, however, perhaps we should consider, for example, free legal aid available to whistles, as well as permanent psychosocial assistance, because we have established psychosocial support to say, for example, to witnesses at trials, so that it would not be bad for the Proposer to consider putting some of these actions into law, primarily thinking of free legal aid and psychosocial assistance, while other actions must be implemented in my opinion, but without the obligation to put themselves into the law. My colleagues mentioned it, so I have to, too, I think maybe it's too long... that the Proposer is considering reducing essentially the difference between the adoption of the law and its entry into force, at some more understandable time, because I think there is no need to suffer criticism on that account, if a quality legal text is prepared for another reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96840	I thank my fellow Milosevic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, independent lists, respected colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96841	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Proposers. Proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities or to say the law relating to so-called whistles, i.e. the persons who speak, or are public, and expose the irregularities and illegalities they have seen in their working environment, which are harmful to the public interest, is an extremely important law, and above all does not deserve to be debated in almost one urgent way at this time, and unfortunately I find that almost every time I find myself in the name of the club, and most often I talk about some important legislative proposals. This is a very important law from the point of view of fighting corruption, all forms of irregularities and illegalities that are contrary to public interest in the broadest sense. In doing so, please allow some of the comments related to the timing of this proposal today at the session of the Croatian Parliament. I am extremely sorry that all the working bodies did not discuss this draft law and should be allowed, for example, that the Committee on Justice, which has a session tomorrow, to discuss this proposal as an interested working body, so that after that, a lot of questions could be answered in the Committee's discussion, but what I find particularly problematic and must present here for the minutes, and to insist on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, that is, the fact that this bill had to be discussed at the meeting of that Committee and not as an interested body, but as a parent working body, and as a parent working body, the Committee on the Constitution had to discuss this proposal on the basis of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure which states that the Committee has the rights and duties of the parent body when it is being discussed the structure, part-time and manner of work of the Advocate General. This law contains an important addition of the vacancy of the Ombudsman, extremely significant for a number and for the representatives and those who have declared themselves so, and also for the female attorney general from a certain aspect of the constitutional authority and the position of the Advocate General, this bill is controversial. And it would be extremely important, just on the Committee on the Constitution, to discuss as the home working body the question of how the ombudsman's jurisdiction is spread as an external body to which irregularities are reported under the provisions of this law. What I would like first of all to praise in this bill is the fact that the law was proposed only months after the European Commission referred to the procedure to the European Parliament and to the Council of the proposal for a directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union rights and this proposal was sent to the European Commission on 23 April this year. I have been very often critical of how the government is sending us draft laws that harmonize our legal order with some European directives, especially after the expiry of the deadline foreseen for harmonisation or even after that, but here in this particular case you have actually proposed the law at a time of few months after the European Commission proposed a directive that regulates this issue. I must even say that I have noticed that you have followed to a significant extent what it says in that directive, so what I will critically say about the bill is, in the same way, the proposal for a directive of the European Commission which has now passed this consultation procedure with the interested public which ended somewhere in July this year, a lot of the objections addressed to this proposal, so the Commission may, in fact, reshape its proposal once it has been directed to Parliament and to the Council. What is important and why was the European Commission's motive to propose a directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union rights? First of all, the recent number of major scandals, the major scandals that have occurred, the diesel gats, the lux lux, the Panamanian documents or the latest scandal and discoveries in the Cambridge analytics affair that have shown that whistles have an extremely important role to play in detecting irregularities and illegal activities that threaten public interest and the well-being of citizens and society. The fact is also, seen by the Commission, that only a small number of EU member states, 10 of them have one special law that is dedicated to the protection of whistles, most countries don't actually have it. We're glad that we're actually going with this bill of law, and we hope that it will come into force as soon as possible. As a matter of fact, this Commission directive, which is proposed, therefore one spectrum, a very wide range of areas to which it applies, therefore from public procurement, financial services, money laundering, financing of terrorism, product safety, transport, environmental protection, nuclear safety, food security, health, well-being and human and animal welfare, public health, consumer protection, data protection and the safety of network and information systems. So I quote this to see which broad spectrum, which areas are covered by the proposed directive and how many areas are actually tangled by possibilities, irregularities, illegalities that are actually happening and related to EU law, but also to national law on which national legislation should be conducted. The European Directive also provides for certain protection mechanisms it proposes and expects to implement them through the application of the Directive into its national framework and individual countries. And I have also noticed that the proposal for a law that is before us is in a certain sense followed by the proposal for a European Directive, the European Commission. Of course, there are also good and commendable things, i.e. provisions proposed in the reporting system in the obligation to provide information to competent authorities after applications have been submitted in a particular system of protection for applicants of applications in order to prevent all forms of retribution and to ensure effective protection for applicants of irregularities and illegality. Now what is important in this bill of ours and what should be considered in particular. First of all, the scope of the bodies covered by this bill is very good that private companies are listed here. The question is whether companies with more than 50 employees or whether other criteria such as annual revenues should be foreseen. Secondly, all the bodies of the public authorities are here, which is extremely important. But what should now be taken into account here, and with regard to the European Directive, how in fact our public authorities are treated, especially given the proposal that you are adopting, which is proposed by the European Commission, which is, in fact, the kind of reporting of irregularities, which is very much being debated. So internal reporting of irregularities, therefore, is an internal channel where a person who is working in any way reports an irregularity or illegality and where the bill states that he first addresses an internal body to a particular trusted person appointed by the head of the body to whom the irregularities should first be reported. And in the public debate on the European Directive, it has been seen that this is a very problematic aspect of the proposal and the directive, but also of this bill because it is expected that at least the people who want to report irregularities will do so within their company or a certain confidential person who is actually appointed by the head of the public authority. Take, for example, whether an employee in a city will report to a trusted person appointed by the mayor for certain irregularities. In doing so, what was seen in the public debate is that the application itself and waiting for a minimum of 60 days to respond to how this confidential person acted, it investigated the application, allowing sufficient time for the possible removal of evidence that was actually the basis of the application. When it comes to an external application, to a single competent independent body, you specifically propose to the Advocate General, it is a matter of exceptional expansion of the institution's scope. The point is, I have to agree with you about a very independent state body, so the position of the attorney general as a body is extremely independent, he has experience in dealing with complaints of citizens, he cares about the protection of their constitutional and legal rights, but the expansion of the area with all that is provided for by the Advocate General in a number of areas in which so far the Ombudsman has not acted to require that the issue be specifically discussed and that it is seen whether there are constitutional obstacles to such a detour defined by this bill. Finally, this bill provides for the third possibility for applicants to bring their knowledge of irregularities and illegalities to the public, to the media, to expose the irregularities that occur in their company or any body of public authority. But that's only the third step, the third step after the internal channels and this external independent body are eventually exhausted. And it is a great criticism of the European directive that it has not left the possibility for applicants to choose for themselves the most suitable channel to be used to detect irregularities and ways to report it to the public. It has been shown so far that media disclosure has had the greatest effect and whistles were the least inclined to address a person within the company or body in which they worked. Similarly, it is required that the Directive amends the possibility that the person applying must be identified. Therefore, in this law too, we believe that it should be possible for the application to be made anonymously because it will allow for much simpler and easier out of the fear of those who report and will bear sanctions. What should be particularly highlighted is the strengthening of the protection of applicants of irregularities and illegality. They must have strong judicial protection, they must get free legal aid. They, regardless of what the bill says, should the court proceedings be urgent, we are aware that court proceedings can take years, during that time it is necessary to protect material, health, in any way the applicant and all those who might actually suffer from his application. It's absolutely necessary and that part here is missing in the bill. In the end, the sanctions you're predicting, the infractions, they're realities and they're not. If you predict that you will punish a responsible person with 500 to 5000 kn for violating the basis of this law, it is not a penalty, you will receive a greater fine for a traffic violation. For the protection of whistles that reveal irregularities and illegalities, penalties must be drastic for the response of a person, drastically. Not 500 kn but 500 000 kn to 5 million kn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96842	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for this debate. We are moving on to individual debates, the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, is not present. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96843	The Honorable Chairman, however, speaks here about the protection of whistles, there are certain organisations that are not covered by this law. Namely, we have the term “witnessful witness ” that is related to the Penal Rights, meaning when a person is wet in some crime but means that as a penitent he agrees to testify against crime and thus saves himself. In this second case, we have a whistler case here, so a person who's not put into any crime and will testify to a crime that's happening or wants to expose it. Why am I saying all this? Because there are certain societies, it is said secret societies such as mass lodges where people are bound to the law of silence and where they are actually not allowed to talk about their activities outside those lodges. The fact is that in Croatia there are several Masonic lodges, the fact is that you have them registered in the Association Register. The fact is that some famous people like ophthalmologist Nikica Gabrić are massa or, say, a Mr. Pokupec's lawyer if I'm not mistaken, I think his name is Damir and there are more of these Masons, etc., but why am I telling you all this? Because in one book, "I was a Mason" Maurice Caliet, I don't know how the French read it, he writes a lot of things about how rituals look, he talks about how he believed that he lived in the dark and that by entering the Masonic Lodge he came out into the light, but he says that after many years he realized that he had actually entered into the lodge and not into the light as they had told him. He says the following, after I joined, I entered a policy where he discovered how brotherly aiding amongst the Masons looks and how laws are passed when you have your people in key places. So he's saying that masseuses have an impact on politics. Why am I saying that? Because the great maester of the great lodge of Croatian times said, Dragan Kukavica, that in every government since the beginning of Croatia there was a masseuse and that they also have in this year and that is what he said a few years ago. but it's clear, so-called. Continuity. Also in another interview, some Masons also say that there are people in this assembly who are part of the brotherhood. And now you're gonna say good, Mr. Pernar, why are you telling us about this now? So I'm talking because the fact is also that the great maester of the great lodge of the Croatian grog Ivan Draskovic was Hanžekovic until recently or until his death, so we all know that. However, why we care about the name Hanžekovic, because Hanžekovic had a deputy named Slobodan Kuvalja. And now, if you go online, write Free Cook, you'll find some articles that say that he's now in Hanžeković's place, or that he's a big maester. And what's even worse, it says, is that in this struggle for supremacy within the Masonic Lodge in Croatia, the great box of Croatia, this Free Cook allegedly competed against a HDZ. And if that HDZ was said again allegedly because it says so on the Internet, I don't know if it's true, that the HDZ has actually lost, which would mean that HDZ lost a member of the BiH presidency in this short time, Dragan Covic, but has failed to take over Croatia's big box. That's two losses for HDZ. But why am I telling you this? I'm coming to the center now. Because in writing the new Executive Act, according to the Association Blocked, they report or cooperate on its creation of people who are not part of the working group for the construction of the new Executive Act but they participate de facto in its creation. And according to the Blocked Association, they say the following. If an e-mail came from the Hanžekovic Law firm in which they write, apparently the Ministry of Justice, that it should not stop the operations in winter, ask that the Executive Law be changed in a way that the executions can continue even when there is no money in the account. Thirdly, that the court should not oversee the work of public notebooks, fourthly, in order not to reduce the fees for carrying out the commission, and fifthly, to ban cash payments, and even in the case, even if it were, let's say, a Christmas card. And now what's going on, you're going to say Mr. Pernar you're one conspiracy theorist, but then explain to me when Mr. Hanžekovic was on TV, asking how he came to work to charge for HRT, what did he answer? He didn't say I didn't know I was going to some contest so I got this job, not he said next, I invented this job. And now the question is, how is it that the great maester, the great lodges of Croatia invented the job if he didn't have his associates in power. How could he have invented something that had never existed before if someone hadn't written a law for him? But it is clearly now becoming clear, after a statement from the association, that the law enforcement company Hanžeković, and after the death of the "patera familias", continued to write the laws in Croatia and influence their writing, i.e. that the executive law comes again by order, i.e. it seems by this information from a single law society that has acquired its wealth on the execution of the poorest and swearing to it and convincing all of us on television and apparently making us fools there in these Masonic bars to learn how to be better people, learn humanism, etc. And another thing they do in all these statutes of these associations, and associations are not the great lodge pillar of wisdom, the great lodge of Croatia, etc. They say it's one of the goals of the Masonic Lodges. I wonder if such a worldview may be propagated in the media and what will be the consequences for our society if the influence of the Masonic lodges or their members in Croatia is not contained and if their membership is not finally revealed and that is, if what they do in darkness does not come out in the light. That's a very big problem. And you can ignore what I'm saying, you can laugh at it, but the fact is that Dragan Coward said there was a masseuse in every government. The fact is that the second Mason is again in an interview for a daily paper said that in this Parliament too they are sitting and the problem is that these masseuses affecting political developments, political processes and laws that are being passed and from the left me and me on the right hand side of the pay phone, and that, in fact, however the government changes, the same societies continue to affect political processes in our country, and then it seems strange to people, or it is not clear to them why the policy continues, for example, muttering citizens through the performance and if defacto or dejour formal government has changed. It is the formal authority has changed, HDZ has replaced the SDP or the SDP HDZ but people who write the executive law seem to remain the same. And I appeal that those who have consulted the law firm, Hanžeković, are removed from the Working Group for the Construction of the Executive Law because it is obvious that it is again planning to do an executive law that will not be in the interest of 99% of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96844	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Pernar. I would just ask you to stick to the topic a little bit more in the future because the subject is the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities, not the executive law and not the Masonic lodges, but I respect your style so that I have not interrupted you. We have one replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96845	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar seems to be the only institution that HDZ has not occupied in the Republic of Croatia, or from your exposure that has failed to take over, and I would talk about something else about people who are risking both their jobs and their careers to warn about irregularities and corruption. Tomorrow at 13 o'clock here in Hrv. At the National Council to monitor the implementation of corruption repression, diplomat Damir Sabelak from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs comes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I see that there are colleagues from Min. foreign and European affairs which will testify to the illegal spending of money in the ministry. No one reacts, no Prime Minister, no Minister And that man, they have already forbidden him, or they have passed a regulation forbidding any step in any matter. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96846	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96847	Dear Representative Grmoya, you said that the Masons tried to master the HDZ... That is, I said that they tried to conquer the HDZ and the Masonic Lodge and failed to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's exactly what I've been trying to say all along, and that's that both parties, both left and right, that massacre people on top and generally lead one anti-national policy, are actually an extended arm of masseuses, which is actually the secret society that defacto governs our policy because there's no other explanation why the same policy would be continuously implemented if the government changed on the one hand, although the other government is saying that it will change, but it continues to implement, it goes on, I don't see another explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96848	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this inspired answer. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96849	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here are a few sentences, given that I am the President of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, I feel obliged to say that it is just following the recommendations of the 2014 Anti-Corruption Reports of the European Commission, which highlights the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the protection of whistles, as well as the European Council's 2014 recommendation on the protection of whistles in Croatia in the anti-corruption strategy for the 2015-2020 period, to pay particular attention to the protection of whistles. Therefore, an action plan has been adopted for 2017 and Part 2018 in the anti-corruption strategy for the period 2015-2020 and in which there is a sectoral area of the 5.2.1. of the judiciary within the framework of the measures to strengthen the system of application, corrupt behaviour and the regulation of the legal framework for the protection of whistles includes the activity of the adoption of laws on the protection of persons reporting corruption and the education of judicial officials, in order to protect whistles effectively. Therefore, we have been meeting the strategy and monitoring the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the strategy, which has been a major problem in our sessions since the beginning of this year, and has highlighted the need for more effective protection of people who report to corruption to a good extent, since we all know that in Croatia corruption is a major problem, that it is indeed the cancer of society and that in the fight against corruption, if you do not have a person who reports corruption in good faith, therefore, as we popularly call it whistlers, there is no way to prove corruption. Corruption is always a four-eyed deal inside a closed system, so without a tip from inside, it's impossible to detect corruption. We also heard from fellow Milosevic today about his presentation on behalf of the Club, to what extent is the importance of people who report whistles corruption, thus showing, for example, that 23% of the affair in the private sector, i.e. 42 in the private and public sector, is revealed by research from the EU precisely thanks to whistles. On the other hand, in Croatia, we have had several studies, but they are all defeating, so is 2010. 57% of respondents said they would not report corruption in the 2017 survey. 96% wouldn't report corruption. The most common reason why it would not report corruption, because they feel that they are facing negative consequences, therefore, fear, as much as 35%, 27% believe that this will result in a stigma, therefore, a negative connotation, a negative relationship of the environment, and that because of their good faith and attempts to help society will actually suffer. That is why this law is very important, and it is therefore important that, until the second reading, he experiences certain changes, in order to be truly effective in terms of protecting people who will report corruption, because he is now transposing part of the directive that my colleague Podolnjak and I have also discussed on behalf of the Club, from what the EU proposes, through its directives, however, it seems to me that he is still not enough of life, so that in reality, he will ensure what we all want. And this is that corruption is less and that Croatia is finally coming out of a circle of corrupt countries. Thanks to the Presidency of the Council of Europe, we will also have large conferences, the Justice Department's organisation where we will be able to share experiences with colleagues from all over Europe, and perhaps it can help us to get better legislation by the final text. Defeating among other things, although it is for education, that as many as 60% of respondents said they did not know how to report corruption. This is another example to which civil education and education, education for civil society and democracy should be introduced into schools, because the fight against corruption is actually learned from small legs, as well as some other habits, which we acquire for a healthier and more quality life, and the fight against corruption, is certainly a struggle for a healthier society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96850	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Christian Turkalj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96851	Commissioner, I'm glad that after this debate, I think we can conclude that we all agree that it is necessary to better regulate the area of protection of applicants of irregularities. What seems to us, to show that we have brought a good text of the bill, we have listened carefully to all the suggestions and suggestions that have been made, they will be discussed, we believe that by the second reading we will certainly further improve the text. The quality of the text is certainly, and we heard it from the debate, we contributed to the strong composition of the working group, which was doing this law and what was important, in approach to the preparation of this law, we approached thoroughly, we did a serious comparative analysis of the solution in Europe and then only after that joined the development of new laws on... solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, I will look back at the main issue that has been put forward as the problems of the existing proposal and explain why we have taken the position we have taken in the proposal. So, first of all, there was a questionable constitutionality of extending the responsibilities of the Ombudsman, we do not think that this is an objection, since in a similar way, jurisdiction has been extended in the case of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. We used the same approach. Why we chose the Attorney General's Office is precisely because the people we're talking about are about their protection of their human rights and this particular office has the most experience in it. So this is about protecting the people who are chicanted and consequently whose rights are being violated. We have seen that the directive which is in force in the procedure is proposed in 2021, we will consider the proposal to shorten the time of entry into force, what we have set for such a deadline, that the institutions are prepared, that entrepreneurs are prepared and that we do the campaign for which we have foreseen 200 000 kn in the next 3 years. As regards the application of employers, so we think that when we think we should take care when we look at the ways of reporting that there are 3 channels of application, I think that every employer will be interested to report to him some irregularity that exists in his legal person, of course if the employer himself is the one that causes the irregularity then another channels will be used, and that is the external way of the application. As for the number of employees, we put 50 employees, we think it's an adequate number, we have to make sure that we don't additionally burden economic operators because this is also an administrative burden on business entities, so that should also be taken into account. Finally, regarding sanctions, it should be said that we will consider whether or not it is necessary to further serve in certain segments of the sanctions. Let's also look at the bad, misfunctioning claims of the judiciary, we think, of course, with certain excesses that are happening, the judiciary is doing better every day, this shows the figures, so we've achieved some 480 000 that we've had in 2016, the cases that haven't been solved, have already fallen below 400 000 and, as far as the length of the court proceedings is concerned, in 2 years we've achieved exceptional results and you'll see at the end of the year, we'll again reduce the number of old cases, for our estimates of about 30%, last year by 22%, so we'll make those oldest cases a statistical error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96852	Thank you, Mr. Turkalj, for the closing statement, we have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96853	Thank you very much. I was at the invitation of the citizens of Slavonski Brod, I am sorry that I did not participate in the debate, but I will participate in the second reading because it is simply that this law begins to apply in 2020. I would especially welcome Mrs. Vesna Balenovic here. In 2020, what happens by 2020? So this is where you talk about the kind of justice that blooms, so do we live in the same state? Here, I wish Mrs. Balenovic could turn around, so do we live secretaries in the same country? Do you live in Croatia? Are you the same as the Prime Minister, Alice in Wonderland? You're saying that in 2020, there will be a bill on the protection of whistles, 500 kn punishment for offenders, 500 kn. What are you talking about? Don't deceive the public. Here was a proposal, though the Living Wall, no matter who gave it, which you should have accepted, you didn't, this is just a pamphlet to mock whistles and people who fight corruption in this system that's corrupt from top to bottom. What was created by blood, you destroyed to the pain, that one now looks here and says whether the law will be valid in 2020 that fights... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96854	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the whole debate today and how to fight corruption by detecting irregularities through whistles shows that in Croatia we have a serious deficit of institutions and bodies that could be dealt with seriously, to protect people who decide to report irregularities and illegalities. Look, from all the demand you've had within the task force and in the draft of the law, you've come to the attorney general, she says it's not in her jurisdiction, there aren't any other bodies that would be a mechanism of protection. For example, we do not have as Slovenia a corruption prevention commission, they have entrusted them with this task, we are chronically lacking in which to deal with it, I hope that the settlement with the police defenders, and you do not have others at this time can be constitutional and can be of quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96856	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. Next replica, esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96857	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this law is, quite simply to be done, to be referred to the procedure, that the prime minister may say that this government is fighting corruption, to protect whistles, and we all know that's not the case. We all know that the institutions are occupied, this is also shown by these affairs in recent days, this shows particularly this case that I spoke about here in the Croatian Parliament on several occasions, that tomorrow USKOK does not want to come before the national council, that they have an unmistakable explanation why it will not come, that we have a State Audit report that confirms everything Damir Sabelak is saying but that the minister does not want to initiate a return procedure, that the prime minister tolerates it, in fact, conceals crime. And such are the institutions, and such is the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, and so are our institutions, secretary of state. And as far as the case is concerned, it's completely irrelevant, the Agrokor case has been solved. How's he solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96858	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96859	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The whistler law should certainly be and perhaps it should have been a long time ago. Of course, people who report crime in Croatia must be protected, I think even rewarded. We must not behave, let people who protect crime and who want to say about crime be still sanctioned, such as this lady upstairs we see, Mrs. Balenovic, I think such people should be rewarded in this country, not blamed. Unfortunately, corruption is with us, we know that it's been going on for all these years, all 25 years, I hope by this law, of course, it should have been done sooner or later that something will still be done in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96860	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. We're with this... You want to answer? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's State Secretary Mr. Turkalj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96861	Your Honor, in my statement, I said we would consider all the proposals and the proposal to move the law into effect on an early date. So everything you put out will be carefully considered and we believe that in the second reading we will have an even better bill. I also mentioned that the issue of sanctions will be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96862	Thank you very much to the esteemed secretary of state for your reply. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank the State Secretary of Justice, Mr Kristijan Turkalj, Assistant Minister Ivan Crnčec, and the head of the justice department, Maja Baričević, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting up a recess, and we'll be back to work at 8:00 and 10:00. It's 7:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96863	Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, First Reading, P.Z. No. 445. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity and 1 August is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 23 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96864	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work with: - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Matika, second reading, P.Z. No. 330 The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.12 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 concerning Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the obligations of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I would like to call on the representative of the motionor, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Zdravko Busic, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal of the Law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will shorten my exposure, because this is a second reading. So the Croatian Emigrant Queen is a descendant of the Croatian Emigrant Mother founded in 1951. Today the Croatian Emigrant Queen acts under the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen, which the Croatian Parliament adopted in December 1990. This law established her as an independent organisation with the property of a social legal person. The legal position was therefore necessary for the establishment of the Croatian Emigrant Queen to be brought into line with the new laws and especially the Law on Institutions. By entering the Law on Institutions of 1993, the Croatian Emigrants Queen should have become an ex-legislative public institution which, as set out in Article 78(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, states. The law on institutions. In the meantime, it adopted a whole series of regulations in the Republic of Croatia with which it was intended to coordinate the activities and organisational structure of the Croatian Emigrants Queen and primarily with the Law on Institutions, but also with laws on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that the founder of the Croatian Emigrants Queen, and the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the central state body, i.e. the central body of the state administration, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, respectively, the central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for the Law is in line with all the competent authorities, and has passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, after which it is again in line with the opinions of the Assembly Committee and the competent authorities, the Assembly Committee, primarily, led by Dr Ljubic, the Assembly Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so it is harmonised. Therefore, the head of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Milos proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to submit the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen to the Croatian Assembly for a second reading. It should also be pointed out that for the implementation of this law, there is no need at all to provide for any additional funding, financial resources in the state budget, because it is only an arrangement or, in accordance with other laws. The administrative board will adopt the queen's statutes with the consent of the government of the Republic of Croatia, according to a previously obtained opinion of the Central State Office whose representatives are sitting here. So he will coordinate the other general acts of the queen with the provisions of this law and within 90 days of the date of its entry into force, other regulations should be adopted. As regards the amendment of the text of the legislative proposal, as regards the text which passed the first reading in the Assembly, it was noted that I had already mentioned the observations made by all the competent authorities which were actually, they were mostly grammatical and nomotechnical in nature. In the parliamentary debate in the proposal of this bill, the observations of this law were indeed of some MPs, I would like to stress it here, were of general nature and they were not, in fact, the things that were put forward were not concrete proposals which would require some important changes in the bill itself. The bill's proposal is a necessary alignment, I reiterate with the Laws on Institutions, 2008 which is like lex generals, acts and regulates certain issues so I would say the Law on the Motherland, the Croatian Emerging Queen, is compared to the Law on lex specialis, which only issues which are not governed by the Law on Institutions. It has been established that the supervision of the work of Matica is carried out by the office, the central body for the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, issues that are not regulated by the Law on the Institutions, nor by the Act on the Queen of Croatia, the Croatian Emigrants, will be arranged as I have already highlighted the general acts of the queen. It has been established that the Croatian Emigrant Queen is operating in the areas of the Republic of Croatia and there is no need to set up branches, I know that there has been debate here and even yesterday, however, I must stress that it is not that simple, we have discussed it, but there is really no need because the Croatian Emigrant Queen works through the existing networks of diplomatic consular representations as well as through our Croatian Catholic missions that are numerous around the world but also Mother of Croatia. So Matica hrvatska has in certain countries where the need to promote national and cultural identity is recognised in areas such as artistic, scientific and spiritual creation, as well as the economy, of course and public life that provides for social development. So the Croatian Mother's branches think they have in Germany, Austria, Hungary, Belgium, Serbia and BiH, Montenegro and Slovenia. So the Croatian queen of emigrants really works through all these branches of Matica hrvatska and also the most actually works through the DKP, or diplomatic consular representations and, of course, through our Croatian Catholic missions. I would like to point out once again that this law is not really and is not talking about the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia, but exclusively the Act on the Motherland, the Croatian queen of emigrants is speaking and editing in fact what should have been regulated by law long ago because it has not been settled since 1990. Here, that would be kind of a shortened form of this, otherwise I've had a lot more to expose and since it's too late and you several valuables that you've stayed here, I thank you for your attention and I hope that if there are any questions I'm at my disposal and I'll be very happy to answer all of your questions because I have, I think I have the answers because we've studied very well what you said last time in your presentations and I'll be happy to answer all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96866	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Busic. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96867	Thank you very much. Dear secretary with my associates, I expected this to be an important topic, regardless of because it's the Law on Amendments to the Emigrant Matika, but it was supposed to be a minister. And tomorrow we expect her to come here at 1 p.m. when it comes to corruption in the ministry while at the same time the Croats outside BiH are mostly left for poor diplomacy, bad fighting for those people that come from the Constitution, left alone so the Bosniaks choose our representatives. We expect the minister and has experience internationally, she was also an adviser to small Slobi, Mr Dacic, so she can come here tomorrow to defend and Croat in BiH because there is obviously no time and to defend what is happening at the Ministry of Corruption in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96868	Thank you. Answer, respectable secretary of state, Mrs. Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96869	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, Madam Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric is on her way. And I think you'll also accept that I can present this bill and that I can answer all your questions. If I can't, I'll try, here's whatever you have questions for something that I happen to be unable to answer right now, and I'll try and answer. I mean, I hope you'll appreciate my answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96870	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96871	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with Associates, fellow MPs. As the State Secretary told us, we remained as the last time we discussed in May the proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants' Mothership that we were only talking about issues of principle nature for the reason that last time there were no concrete proposals at the debate on 10 May for improving the Law on the Croatian Emigrants' Motherships, but colleagues were often taking principle positions with their grades and in the jurisdiction of other institutions that cared about relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. But it is also this dimension that is important and shows that the Republic of Croatia is developing this institutional framework that will enable a more quality attitude towards Croatian emigration and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So it is important to remind that there are four key categories in Croatia's emigration. So, the emigration that was formed in the late 19th century in the United States, Canada, Latin American states, later Australia, New Zealand. Then another group, which is formed in the 1960s and '70s in European countries, especially Germany, our temporary workers. The third category, therefore, the Croats, national minorities in 12 European countries who, their position, are the result of earlier conflicts in the areas of the Republic of Croatia and BiH because all empires, all kingdoms neighbouring the premises of BiH and the Republic of Croatia, predated new spaces such as the Mletska Republic, the Austrian Empire, the Ottoman Empire, the Hungarian Kingdom and two therefore, within these 12 Croatian minorities, two minorities, so Croats in Serbia-Montenegro who are the indigenous people in the area of these countries. And the fourth category, the most recent emigration that has occurred in the last decade since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. So these four categories call for a new programme approach not only for the Croatian Emigrants Queens but also for other institutions, in particular the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, which is dedicated more to its work in some other issues and especially the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and because of the fact that it is, as you yourself said on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent authority for the supervision of the Croatian Emigrants Queen. All in all, it has been observed in recent years after the adoption of the strategy on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the foundation of the Council for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia is developing this institutional framework along with the Croatian queen of emigrants and its key activities. I would look back, and I believe that it is not sufficiently highlighted in public life in the Republic of Croatia on the scale of the key dimension when Croatian emigration is at issue until the 1990s until the foundation of the Croatian state that despite the success of the national policy of Franjo Tudjman, the reconciliation of Croatian emigration and Homeland Croatia, reconciliation in Croatian emigration where Croatian and Yugoslav clubs began to co-operate after decades, however, with regrets, it would point out that Croatian society did not open the door enough to integrate those parts of Croatian emigration into economic, political, cultural life in Croatia's homeland. And in this direction Croatia's queen emigrants exactly on the basis of national policy Dr. Tudjman should be encouraged by this kind of relationship to Croatian emigration through his activity and through the influence he has in his publishing activities, cultural activities, information activities and a number of other activities. I would also point out that Croatians also received the National Security Strategy and a series of documents that have been created which are part of a complementary approach to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, should be corrected precisely for the reasons why the Croatian Government of Croatia's 2019 normative plan also provides for adjustments from the law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, changes in the strategy and when one systematic analysis of all documents is made, all the institutions that we believe will then be created and better assumptions about the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially in those countries where we have Croatian emigration and the entire network of the diplomatic Republic of Croatia in the world. What is important to say, as regards the activities of the Croatian queen of emigrants, which is primarily aimed at preserving cultural identity in countries where there are national minorities such as Serbia, Montenegro or although not, is not about Croatian emigrantism such as the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina that in those countries where political identity is at risk, cultural identity or preservation of the cultural identity of Croats and Serbia, Montenegro, and also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if this process we face continues. I therefore believe that because of communication with Croatian emigrants because of the acquisition of experience from a concrete life, important influence is the proposals of the Croatian Emigrants Queen to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this direction, too, it should be insisted that the experience of the lives of Croatian emigrants, the potentials of academic, economic, intellectual and any other dimensions to be in the function of the development of the Croatian nation, should also be approached by the Croatian emigrants. The Croatian nation in the past 20 years has not fully answered the need for the integration of Croatian emigrants to the extent possible from Croatian Croatian country to two key issues. On the issue of the liberal acquisition of Croatian citizenship and the issue of more liberal voting opportunities or participation in elections in the Republic of Croatia, which is what needs to be stressed through the activities of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, as it concerns emigration which is simply limited in the realization of these opportunities. I believe that the voice of the Croatian Emigrant Queen should be stronger in this direction, especially as the current Government of the Republic of Croatia has embarked on reform processes under the law that will allow this need to be realised. Croatian emigrantism has also been stegmatized in this House. I could see this through these two years of work, and in my view this is due to the fact that political parties in the Croatian Parliament except for the Croatian Democratic Community and some other honorable exceptions that try to take care of Croatian emigration, Croatian national minorities in their programmes do not have a focus on the position of national minorities in 12 European countries, especially in focus do not have Croatian emigration. If the Croatian political parties were focused on the position of Croatian emigration to preserve its cultural identity, the position of Croatian national minorities, especially if they had interest in Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that it would be a more proportionate, rational debate in the Croatian Parliament when these issues are on the agenda and I believe that they would have a consensus on key national provisions towards Croatian emigration and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned about how I come from Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the currentity and occasion of the recent elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina and insolent, the hooligan ambitions of Bosniak political structures to impose on Croats legitimate Croatian representatives, with the support of also irresponsible parts of the international community, corrupt, corrupt, who have been placed in the role of political violence against the Croatian people for the third time in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatian institutions are under trial, but all political representatives in this House are tempted to reach a consensus on this issue, not how we are witnessing that some colleagues in one irresponsible way, along with honorable exceptions here and colleagues sitting here from Most, who have responded correctly to the position, along with the Croatian Democratic Community, must make sure that they speak of something more complex which they do not know enough about and what further harms Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that in the framework of a recent debate on the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European pathway of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this dimension of irresponsibility and the need for national consensus towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and towards Croatian emigration and towards Croatian national minorities will be seen. Every incentive from the Croatian queen of emigrants within her activity, within the framework of informative publishing work in the context of sports meetings, in the context of the emphasis on Croatian cultural identity and the importance of evicted Croatia when it comes to the cultural identity of the Croatian Homeland that these issues need to be further emphasized and contribute to the integration of the Croatian nation, the country's evicted Croatian nation, because without that integration, without one cooperation respecting respect, there will be no security or perspective for Croatian homeland. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen with the desire to contribute with all other adjustments that need to be made in relation to other laws, the better perspective and preservation of the cultural identity of Croats in Croatian emigrants and Croatian national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96872	I thank my esteemed colleague Raguž. Next debate on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, Reformist and Independent Representatives, Honored counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96873	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. I thank you. Of course, and I'm glad that the final proposal for an evicted law... The queen of Croatia also said that this law is likely to contribute to all that is happening today with our emigrants. We know that the Emigrant Matica makes the presidency here in Croatia with four members, where the government determines. Only the name of the Emigrant Mother is very beautiful because the queen is something to go for. However, knowing that it was founded in 1951 with a beautiful hint of the Croatian Matica. I think at that time it was another meaning where it was meant to enter among the Croats who were well organized in the world and follow what they were doing and what they were doing. Not so much to help them return to their country of Croatia but also to follow. Of course, we continued this in the 1990s, and I have no doubt that we want good for our Croats outside Croatia. However, we sitting here in the Assembly, which we have waited for and we are late because we are interested in these people outside, however, looking at this hall, we look to the left and I said it the last time, when they are absolutely, absolutely not interested in Croats outside of Croatia. Of course, they've been the ones since 51, who didn't care about them at the time, of course, and they don't want those Croats to come back. The queen works through the Central Office, the Office for Immigrants, Mr. Zvonko Milas, I think and can support him to work well, lately I have noticed it and I can only say with gratitude – Thank you Zvonko, but continue even more. Is that very, very important? And I think that team that's up now, and thank God we have that office. I know and I see that in Bosnia and Herzegovina you are quite present, and that is very important, there is most of us, unfortunately we have what we have now. I would now say the position of Croats outside the country. What's their position? We have Croats who escaped 45th, who, of course, by some today are not like them to return to Croatia. Who today have problems getting passports, getting citizenship, getting all the documents. I personally think that shouldn't be a problem. Of course we had consulates, we had embassies, I could freely say that even in these embassies and consulates, people didn't sit well enough Croatian. I would rather say Yugoslav and some of us even this country is not quite willing, but I am sorry and I am glad that they do not like it because the Croats still got the blood of this country and we have to take it easy, of course it is difficult to get to everything and be ideal but through our fight we politicians who are here in the Croatian Parliament must fight for the truth. And the truth is the thing we can't kill, we can't possibly make a lie to the end and throw the truth out, and the truth is it's the one that can't be erased. What are the rights of the Croats? What I mentioned earlier wasn't exactly on a big scale, we didn't really want those rights to come true in as short a time as possible. Of course, if people live and live in South America, Australia, America, the Europe of people who went away long ago, we keep asking them how, in fact, our institutions wherever you came from, and I know it for personal reasons, for family reasons, but I know people who come and talk to me. Very, very difficult to come and not quite received at our consulates and embassies the way they should be. We know how many Croats we have outside the Republic of Croatia. Exactly three and a half million, four, nobody knows exactly. Of course it's hard to figure out, but it's a big number, a big number of people. We know we have billionaires, we know we have Croats outside who are big entrepreneurs. Our Croats, during the war and in the 1990s, all stopped and everyone tried to help Croatia with their soul. Of course, without them, we probably wouldn't be able to do it financially or in any way. But those same Croats when they came to the Croatian state didn't exactly open their doors. Entrepreneurs who came here failed a lot, had to leave a lot, got very disappointed in the system I'm talking about. How much did they invest in Croatia? Very much so. Very much, and I could say freely so one 10 times more, that they opened the door and said, "Mrs. Croats come, you are desirable to us, we love you." It didn't happen and today it's seen through some kind of prism which, unfortunately, today after 28 years of war, we didn't want these people both as investors and as people who would come to live in Croatia, and we see what's happening to us today. The elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that was yesterday, the day before yesterday, and we saw that scandal, so I could say that our people can't choose their own member of the presidency. True, it's a long, long time, and we have to say it simply and we're the accomplices of something and our government until now, even now. I hope the Prime Minister of our country says enough once, we have to deal with it in another way. Croatia must stand behind Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Maura, it's simply our obligation and we ended up and this Dayton Agreement we signed unfortunately with the Serbian Republic but the point was to leave the war, stop the suffering of our Croats and that's the most important thing. However, I, as Posavljak from here, must say for the Croats from the Bosnian Posavina so far has been very, very little done. Of course, when you have the Serbian Republic, you have a Dodik who never told the Croats to come, you do. Their houses aren't restored. Very, very little, and we know that the majority people were Croatian in Savina, we know that they were the richest, we know that we have the most catastrian countries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm talking about Savina. But we didn't really make the effort to do it right. I fully agree that the Bosnian Croats and the Posavina better had escaped than had died, that the peace process had come as such. It's a long process, but very difficult. What's sadder? It is sadder that we in Croatia today have a re-emigration I would say economically, and it is not so much economic. You could say that there's more eviction, people just go away because they're not happy with us politicians anymore. I can't watch any more things. No, I meet it every day in town. I see men who work for women and husband, who go to Germany, who leave. I personally have a problem, I can't find workers in my company. You don't have any more professional men. They just left and left as much as you pay them is no longer a question of standards, it's a matter of trust. And it's us who are in here who are in the Parliament that we have to trust, try to unite, say what's good is, which is not good is not good. It can't all be good. I think this country is going in one good direction today and with this government. We see the surpluses, we see how it all goes. Employment, the truth people are gone, but it's got a lot more work to do. And we just have to accept it, and it's one process that needs to last a little bit. And the opposition could be a little bit, I'm not saying you shouldn't attack. Of course we should, but we need to tell the truth, always the truth because we can't kill the truth. And the truth is, the state has been in trouble for 25 years. And these three years, I'd say whatever happened, it's still better. So here we take some money from the European Union, we withdraw more than we are. Of course, you need to learn about everything. It's all a process, and it's a process. In the end, I can commend the Office and you who take care of the Croats. I know you're trying. It's the same process as hard. How to gain their trust to return to our homeland is of course on the government, of course on our ambassadors, our consulates people who work to attract these people, to tell them about Croatia. In fact, we here have to tell the truth and try to build a law and order state and then I think the Croats will realize that we want them as well as anyone. That's ours, we're here in the end. If we don't do this, of course, what's going on is still going to happen, and we're going to have this circus that I can say for 25 years that never answered me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96874	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for this debate. We move on to the next one, on behalf of Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96875	Thank you very much. Dear secretary with her assistants, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about amendments to the law, said the secretary all, the Emigrant Mother has been acting for a long time, she's been organized as organized and that you mentioned many countries, I don't know if you mentioned Ireland, in Ireland you should think about the Emigrant Matika. Unfortunately, and many other countries because of the unemployment and neglect of Croatian governments. There's no other culprit. However, as a constitutional people of Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time, the Croats are our constitutional obligation, with the Constitution prescribed, and we have all sworn to the Constitution, and this subject should be discussed. Do not talk like so far and not give us the service of these people as an electoral body when local elections are then called and the poor they are more dependent on politicians in Croatia and then these politicians manipulate the people of Herceg-bosna, who are in the area, which are very important to Croatia. Not only strategically, Croatia is a strategic country in such a position, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the very body of Croatia. We have an area that has been attacked by a large-serb aggressor of Chetnic in the '90s. All must know those who are followers of some idea that the Croatian people should forget Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it hadn't been for Croatian soldiers, Bosnia and Herzegovina wouldn't have been there either. If it hadn't been for the Croatian soldiers and the HVO together, when I speak HVO, when I speak Croatian soldier, you wouldn't be in the Biak Enclave more crime than in Srebrenica over Bosniaks. But I am deeply disappointed to see the attitude of Croatian politics towards these people. Explosion only, like a voting machine. And that's the worst thing that's ever happened, the worst. It was less important if it was simple when we talk about this policy, then I'll talk about it later on about Komsic, the cause. Which is why when the Bosniak people of Croatia are elected, who says that the only thing Croatian has in it is a bullet from the HVO. It probably all says what Bosniaks chose to represent Croatia, which offends everything that is Croatian. But we have to tell the truth, that Covic and HDZ at those moments had to condition... no down coalition, with either SDA or anyone. That's a fact. I think this story should be over. A man called me from Bugojna, a Croat, that down Nisvet Gasal, the manager of the stadium in Bugojn, who managed, where mass crimes were committed and he was convicted with some ridiculous punishment 23 were killed by Croatian civilians and soldiers, 19 there is no sign of them, that story is still unexplored. Now he's an official in the area. They're making fun of him. He was even in the Electoral Commission. I think he's in Bugojn. The story is a regrettable attitude towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We in Croatia have national minorities currently in power. A fellow Mišic mentioned it a little while ago. It takes their hands to get them up to survive this government, commercial. Otherwise, it would have hit the table with a fist because the Croatian people are a constitutive people, not minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That we have politics and politicians. Politicians used these people exclusively as an exploitation field in pre-election time. And it is not good, and the triba people are conscious. I wouldn't attack here, there's no colleagues from the SDP, very few of us are here. However, we must tell the truth, Zoran Milanovic went to Mostar when there was a crisis. No... I am right, I am taking away the right that they, the SDP or any other party do not have to defend these people in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not defend them, but it is a constitutional obligation. I think it's time to hit it with a fist, I think that, with a fist on the table and that the process of disintegrating the Croatian people in the area will stop. It's a constitutional obligation, this isn't my position, it's a constitutional obligation. To invest down into institutions, to invest in people, not to force these people to actually move out of the area to move to Croatia and third countries. So the more you invest in these areas to survive these people, from hospitals, from schools, from universities, to invest as much as possible. I think colleagues here representing representatives of Croatia will say diaspora, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they will agree that no government of the Republic of Croatia has treated people well, to our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not a single one, would the Croats be in a humble situation like a constituent people, not a minority. In... we have an example that the minority is in power, not a constitutive people we have three peoples of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. We also need to send a message from this pay phone to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That they weren't left alone. The Prime Minister has to say you're not alone, I'll fight for you, it's my constitutional obligation. If we're not ready to fight for the constitution that we voted for, then he has to leave, not give balloons some statements like that is weird what's going on. Well, you're Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Yeah, that's what matters. It's important to have the strength to protect. It doesn't matter here whether it's SDP, or HDZ, or Bridge doesn't matter at all or SDSS. We all have a Constitution in Parliament and we must respect it. The Croats have been forgotten in Bosnia and Herzegovina and serve exclusively as an electoral body and nothing more. And as if logic were, as logic mainly of HDZ, which has the largest voter body, these are your mistakes you have to admit. The poorer the people down, the worse they'll be, the more dependent they'll be on us. That's not good. That's what people see. So these people need to be sent a message of hope. I'm sorry here that they may not be in the morning debate, so that people can hear our messages in that area. Because we're like telling these people you're leaving, like we have no interest in them except in pre-election time. Well, we had six generals in The Hague. So imagine up until the last two years until Minister Sprlje no one visited them. Who visited them? Which one of the ministers of the level, Prime Minister? He won't... No, it's true. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian State has made a complaint within the deadline, you can leave the secretaries freely, so deny me, has not objected to a single complaint. Minister presently, then the secretary of the book that General Praljak wrote did not co-finance. She's struggling to find ways to prove the truth. That's the truth. These are the truths and facts because I believe both the HVO and the Croatian Army are Croatian soldiers. I have a legitimate right to talk about this because for a year and a half I was in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Homeland War and I am proud of every soldier of the Croatian Defence Council, every one who came from Bosnia and Herzegovina Croats and joined the Croatian Army immediately and defended Croatia and it is inseparable. It's inseparable. They only serve us as we please now. I am talking politics, if necessary because it is not so that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not deal with things other than what we should be fighting for, and it is a struggle for Croats outside Croatia only that is one of the priorities with everything else. It wasn't the Ministry. I don't speak personally of you or anyone. They didn't do it, no. And this case that my colleague Grmoya mentions is much more important than how corruption in the ministry, the embassies rather than fighting for these people, which is constitutional obligations. We'll see if the minister comes tomorrow. Once again, I regret that the bad policy of the Croatian government is evicting Croatian people, which, unfortunately, we will have to expand the Emigrants Matika to both Ireland and other countries where it is not founded because of the bad policy it is. Only today can young people stay so they don't leave if they have party membership cards in power. Everyone else has no chance in Split-Dalmatia County. Of course, these people are now moving the path of other countries besides those traditionally Croats who moved into the last century. Here, what are you going to do about the establishment of the Emigrant Mother in Ireland and the Emigrant Mother in other countries which are not traditional and have not been established, and the growing number of Croats is because we simply have more Croats in Ireland now than in some other countries where we have established the Emigrant Mat? And in the end, I would just send a message on behalf of the Club that we must send a strong message that we are with the Croats that is our constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is our obligation and that we must tell the executive authorities, tell the prime minister that they are obliged to protect the interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, otherwise they violate the Constitution and should step down if they do not behave in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96876	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96877	Dear Mr. President, I warmly welcome Mrs. Secretary of State with my associates today, tonight at the Croatian Parliament. So this bill refers to the Croatian Emigrants Queen, and the main goal is to comply with the Law on Institutions and to define that it is on behalf of the Republic of Croatia as the founder that founding rights will be exercised by the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The bill defines what are the basic tasks of Matica, i.e. Croatian queens of emigrants, it is an organisation and implementation of cultural, scientific and educational sports informational and other activities in the Republic of Croatia and abroad intended for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Publishing of magazines, books and other publications and audiovisual works, organization of cultural art, sports events of importance for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and fostering cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the field of their activities. All these praises are valuable and positive and I know from my own experience that the employees of the Croatian Emigrant Emigrants are enthusiasts, much beautiful is happening. But I must also say and I will say this with my own experience of life outside the Republic of Croatia that the Croatian Emigrant Queen has no visibility. It has no visibility outside the Republic of Croatia there we must be very clear and if it really wants to achieve this one visibility, it must have its branches. That's very clear when we talk about emigrants. So the emigrants according to what we see in the strategy for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia mean not Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and not national minorities, meaning Croats who are minorities in European countries, for example. in Gradisto, or Vojvodina in Serbia, Romania. So the Emigrant Mother means emigrated Croats, Croats who have moved to Europe, the overseas country and who have been living there for several generations. There's more and more of them. And they really need to be taken care of. There is the Vice-President of the Parliament, he is also chairman of this session tonight, chaired by this debate, is often in Germany and in Germany the number of Croats has increased to 5 years to 370,000. And that number does not include those Croats who have German citizenship, nor those Croats who have Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship, for example. and they have not declared themselves citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and they may have it. So it's realistic to talk about some 500 thousand Croats in Germany. This means that the number of Croats in Germany is equal to that in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now that we look at only one example, it's one country we have even Austria, we have Switzerland, we have Sweden, we have other countries where there are many Croats, evicted Croats. It means they don't have national minority status. How is our country present there? The Croatian queen of emigrants will be present over we hear through the DKP that's a good intention, that's nice, that's nice. Through Croatian Catholic missions, okay. It would be important to be there with one of its branches, very important to be and visible because it is not enough to rely on Croatian Catholic missions and say, well they have Croatian there... they are dealing with folklore there, we do not have that power. The Croatian state must show this strength and take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in this case of emigrants. When you look at this second resort, it's Minister Divjak, he deals with education, education, education. Are we adequately represented on an educational basis in these countries? Are we? I'm not so sure. So there is plenty of room to improve the presence of the Croatian state, the Croatian state does not mean the Croatian Catholic mission. The Croatian Catholic mission is a special story. The Croatian Catholic mission is the bearer of the fundamental activities of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And that's great. I was in New York as a minister so the priest told me, we're doing what you're supposed to do. That is why I believe that what we hear from both the secretary of state tonight and what my colleague Milas is doing as State Secretary, and what the Croatian Government is doing in the last two years is commendable, one step, one contribution to the Renaissance when we talk about the perception of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. But we have to be honest with ourselves, we can and we have to do better. This must be our goal, we must indeed as a state provide the emigrated Croats with those basic services under quotes. And the basic service is not only that they can go to consulate, in Munich, Frankfurt, Dortmund or Vienna, but that they can send their children to Croatian school and that they will have Croatian textbooks and Croatian professors, teachers who will be sent by the Croatian Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. That must be our goal. Now watch this, that's what the former Yugoslavia was doing. And it hurts many Croats, that the former Yugoslavia, that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, had it. And we can do so in cooperation with countries where Croats are found as evicted Croats. I'm talking about evicted Croats now. So this is positive, I am happy that this government is making one step towards the perception and working with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Croatia as a state can and must be better, and of course it must be our goal what? To spend the necessary procedures in Croatia, it sounds better than reforming that something else should happen, that in a few years 10, 15 years when something in Croatia is clearly changing, when there is more money in our pockets, when we can live even better, we should start in Croatia the queen of the settlers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96878	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac. at this debate inspired. Next debate, respected colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96879	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers. First of all, I want to thank you for commending the industriousness of our representatives who have remained here today on behalf of the Government, and I will therefore make amends to you and the Government, therefore, by supporting this law. However, despite the fact that we have before us the Law on the Croatian Emigrants, which is actually a technical act, that is, the harmonisation of legislation, or the Law on the Croatian Emigrants, with the Law on the Institutions and the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia in this domain dealing with the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I will, in my debate, actually focus on our eviction and on the role of Mother as I see her in that context. Croatian emigration, and it would not quite agree with this debate by Mr. Kovac, although with most of what he said I agree, was actually created in several waves. So the first wave was driven by actually or driven by the Ottomans from the southeast, and so the Croatian national minorities were created in neighbouring countries of Hungary, Austria, Slovakia, Italy. Another big wave was at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, so when our Croats moved out of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia mostly to the overseas countries, so New Zealand, Australia, America, America, South Africa, etc. The third wave was then in the 20th century when they moved to European countries in search of work. And today, of course, we have a new diaspora that is encouraged by Croatia's entry into the European Union where young, educated people are looking for a better job to go to European countries. However, this wave of emigration I think is only temporary and that these people will return very quickly here as Croatia reaches European standards in the economic and social sphere and, of course, institutions dealing with our emigration in this particular case, Matica, therefore, should model their labour modes accordingly. So, as far as Mother's activities are concerned, I was talking about it when it was debated in the first reading of the Law. However, the adoption of the entire legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of the Strategy and the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia by establishing a Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, therefore, through the work of this Committee, we have received a very coherent framework for dealing with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What is now in front of us needs to be fulfilled in substance. And so that's the task of all these institutions that I mentioned earlier. I, therefore, repeat my discussion in the first reading mentions some positive examples of the Mother who still persists today. In fact, I mentioned positive examples of our emigrants who actually contributed to their donations in the cultural sphere of the Republic of Croatia, but also better integration of the Republic of Croatia with their new homelands, so I mentioned... Zlatka Balokovića and... Balokovic, who made it possible for our countrymen to be educated in prestigious universities in the United States. I mentioned therefore the great donations of American Croats including, of course, the first place of the famous sculptor Ivan Meštrovic and his contemporaries. I mentioned back then and... program implemented by the Emigrants Matica then Croatian emigrants... [[You don't understand.]] The queen of the emigrants who began so during the Homeland War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, continued today. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But at that time it was an expression of solidarity and to help the people at risk in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today, it focuses on programmes in the ecological sphere, but at the same time these young people who come from the world are through sports activities, through education, through socialization and that... are approaching the homeland of their ancestors. ... However, in recent years, because of the overall political context in the world, I have said that the issue of diaspora is re-reacted in multilateral world associations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So last year, the Council of Europe, or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, activated one programme of the regional diaspora network. And personally as representative of the Croatian Parliament or as chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I participated in both two meetings of Lisbon and several days ago in Kiev. I can tell you, therefore, that the countries that we can be in many role models have also seen this institutional framework as an excellent example of the practice of emigrating their countries. But also some of the countries can be our role model. I was surprised, therefore, when I was in Kiev talking and listening to a French colleague who was a representative in the French Parliament found out that France is very much laying down for the French outside France to be involved in the electoral process of the Republic of France. Even if this is the case with us and some colleagues who today do not have the truth here in the Parliament, it is seen as a relic from the nature of the independence of the Republic of Croatia and something that may not be appropriate. With this in mind, it may not be appropriate to replicate through the debate. I'd like to address the presentation of my colleagues to Bulj, given that he spoke on behalf of the club, so it was impossible to replicate. I don't think it's appropriate to actually pronounce Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as HDZ's voting machine. First, it's humiliating, offensive to us. On the other hand, a total of 3 MPs elected outside the Republic of Croatia, this is the Croatian Assembly of 155 is actually so little that it cannot be a motive for any voting machine, and this is the Croatian Parliament, this is not the Assembly only of the Republic, this is the Assembly of all Croats in the world, and what we need to advocate is that it is actually to increase the number of these MPs and that other parties are also running for this list. What I want to say here about Croatian emigration, Croatia has not taken full advantage of the potential and this is nice in its opening presentation on behalf of the club, and it is up to all of us to use this potential in the best possible way. This potential is not only in the financial sphere, although the Croatian emigrants send more than 2 billion euros annually to the Republic of Croatia. This potential includes knowledge, experience of life in developed systems, organisational capacity, attitude to work, etc. Today, around noon, I participated in an event opening the Association of Croatian American Professionals office where... The Croatian Parliament was attended by an American ambassador... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] was present former congressman and senator, and now commentator... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] where they are actually about people who came back to Croatia for the first time, some have not returned, but in fact their knowledge, their experience are ready to make available to their old homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Parliament, i.e. the committee chaired by the thematic session, as you know and participated in the central state office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the aim of encouraging the inclusion of the Croatian diaspora in the economic and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. And what I want to say to this occasion is that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia need and we need all of us to build up this institutional framework together and try to take advantage of the huge potential together. I was talking about BiH best, that's what my colleague Raguž said a lot, I was talking about this morning in the opening address on behalf of the club, but of course what happened was a choice... The representatives of the Bureau hit our emigrants hard, many of them complaining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From my proximity, I know several examples where our emigrants were denied the right to vote by the central electoral commission, although they had all valid documents, Croatia was accused of interfering, therefore unjustly, and in fact this BiH institution has prevented a large number of Croats from expressing their will to vote in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96880	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for this debate. We have replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96881	My colleague Ljubic, I told you, I will tell you again, that Croatia has a constitutional obligation to take care of people, of the Croats in BiH as a constituent people. However, the fact is that when Komsic was elected both the first and second time, you entered power with them, in power to entangle, you did not condition, then the condition that you could not be represented by that man, but you were with them at lower levels. That's a fact. I didn't say here that these people, that they're machinery, but you only visit them when it's election time and when they need votes. ... That's the only way you're looking at them, as voters, the voting body, you're the one who brought the Croats into this situation in BiH. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And because of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because of Croatian politics, and also because of you who agreed under the table and signed coalitions with the SDSS at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96882	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj... My friend Bulj, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96883	My colleague Bulj, I don't think I doubt your good intentions for the Croats in BiH, but the way you express it does not actually benefit the Croats in BiH. The rhetoric that you have now applied actually goes to what you yourself have shelled. In fact, it finally amnests those who have deconstituted the Croats on both Serbian and Bosniak sides, we are actually fighting as hard as we can. Croatia did not do everything it could and should, it is true, during the period when the Croats were deconstituted, but at the time it was not the authority of this HDZ, it was actually in the Banski Courts of the Government of the SDP headed by Mr Racan, it was 2001, 2002 and Mesic in Pantovac. And that was the period when the deconstitution processes took place, the amendment imposed, amendments to the electoral law, and in fact I personally came out with the Constitution to get things back to their original principles. And we're fighting down there, and here we're asking the Parliament to help us and the institution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96884	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic. Injury of my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96885	Article 238 5. You disrespect me and my words. This is all I've said, he's written and he's talking about it all the time, Nino Rasdic, who knows well and who comes from these parts, and I'm okay with it. Under the table, you saw the coalitions, and you did not condition that the Croats choose their representatives. They've set you up with a coward's egg because of your interests leading the lead policy, and we need the Croats, we have an obligation to protect us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96886	My friend Bulj, thank you. Please do not abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because no one has demeaned you, but my colleague Ljubic has expressed his political position, as you have expressed your political position, and when it comes to demeaning, we can now say that you have demeaned him. So please do not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure and stick to the work of the Parliament, as is appropriate in this House of Highs. We have the next line, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96887	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Ljubic, I would prefer to have Croats outside Croatia, have more representatives in the Croatian Parliament, means Australia, South America, so check and Germany if there are 500,000 more people involved, that we show them that we want them. Secondly, we need to know that in Croatia and today in Tuzla you have 27000 Croats and around Tuzla, Sarajevo and other areas that are inhabited and are still there, however, I would say to Bulju, the poor Croats in BIH vote for HDZ. It is not true, people in BIH are not poor, they are poor, they only help in one political part or love towards them as to Croats in BIH, not poverty, they have everything, they just need safety and the Croatian state takes care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96888	Thank you, dear colleague Misic, for your response, dear colleague Ljubic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96889	Thank you. So, I agree completely with my colleague Misic, therefore, the Croats are voting, so the Croats have sacrificed, and I have to admit, therefore, my inside Croatian political pluralism, because the change of the Constitution, the electoral law to the detriment of Croats, has forced them to actually join in on a political project, in order to be any factor at all. It's the living truth, not because you'd always want it. What I want to say here, given that I did not raise the sub-confirmation of my colleagues who had just raised it, I was the first to refuse entry into the power of the platform and accept the radio opposition, but to agree to a project of Bosniak, government without Croatian electoral law, i.e., to the BIH without Croats, here is so much to be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96890	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have a closing statement, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96891	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with Associates, fellow MPs. Finally, I would say that the Croatian Emigrants Queen, as part of its activity, should encourage engagement and other state institutions of the Republic of Croatia so that it can realise its activity. Without the involvement of other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to realise the efforts that the queen of emigrants has under her programme of preserving Croatian, cultural identity in emigration. I believe that within the framework of this government's programme, all reform procedures will create conditions for achieving such objectives. When it comes to the dimension of the relationship between Croats in BIH according to all the trials that occurred during the years of the war in BIH, Croatia year after the war, the Croatian people in BIH are aware of the value of the challenges of the time of the Croatian state's foundation, with all their intellectual human potentials, always had access to the need to free the Republic, reintegration and its territory in the first place. And secondly, the independence of all the objections present in the public life of all these years was their destiny in the BIH. I believe that only those who do not know the reality and political life in the BIH can accuse the political representatives of Croats in BIH who are not perfect, but who work in much more complex conditions than the conditions that political representatives in the Republic of Croatia have. A series of details that objectively because of the circumstances they are due to life, political life in BIH, which promotes people, promotes us to the BIH, and that they will not promote Croats in public life in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we need to be careful of the speedy grades, we are not perfect, but surely responsibility for our position shared by both the Republic of Croatia and the international community. As part of the topic now on the agenda, therefore, of the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants, I would finally say that we have significant improvements under this law, the need to comply with other laws and the opening of a perspective for better engagement of the Croatian Emigrants Queens in Croatian emigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96892	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Raguž. Final word on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96893	Thank you, Vice President, here's a few colleagues here in Parliament, state secretary with associates, these amendments to the law, of course we will support, there is nothing disputed here, the debate went in one other direction, advocates for the rights of Croats in the BiH, I think we're all on the same line. However, we cannot talk about any protection of Croats, we cannot talk about the protection of our people if we are vaccinated from the people. At this point, while I was listening to this debate from my colleagues, Bulja, a colleague of Ljubic, a colleague of Raguž, I read on the portals that the Ministry of Administration, or that the Evening and Morning List, has been informed that the Ministry of Administration has torn down the referendum on the change of the Election System. Since all our institutions are obviously occupied by HDZ, as Minister of Administration Lovro Kuščević did not allow observers of the Election System Change Initiative to participate in the control of the counting of signatures, which is their democratic right, even the GONG claimed that the initiative has the right to do so and since this whole process has been compromised and that we obviously have the intention of the minister from the very beginning and his statements and his prime minister himself on the initiative to bring this referendum down I will be out of the protest here because the institutions have occupied this pay phone and I do not intend to remove myself from this place. I call on the Croatian people to react, this requires a sharp reaction because there is obviously nothing that can be done through the institutions. We need major and mass protests against this country's government led by Andrej Plenkovic. The first protest will take place in Vukovar on Saturday to finally investigate the crimes committed against the Croatian people in Vukovar and in other parts of Croatia because the institutions have not done enough, we also have the recognition of Vladimir Seks at a recent HDZ meeting where he said he himself personally influenced it, at the request of the president, former President Tudjman, whom he is now referring to, the man is dead and cannot be defended that he has insisted on reducing the number of those criminal charges which have not been answered. This is the first protest against this government on which MOST comes in strong composition, goes by our defenders, volunteers, MPs of the Homeland War. I won't go personally, but those who need to go will go, but that protest isn't enough. What Andrej Plenkovic and Lovro Kuščević have done means a much sharper and stronger reaction from the Croatian people, a much stronger response, and I expect it to happen. It has proved here that it is not important who signs but who counts the signatures, it has proved that the intention from the very beginning was to bring down this Government and Andrej Plenkovic's referendum on the change of electoral system which they have prepared, and the aim was to reduce the number of MPs in the Assembly, rationalise the work of the Croatian Parliament, or the representatives themselves. Here, we see everyone here will receive a salary for today and how many of us are here. The aim was to make the electoral units mean that each vote is worth the same in each constituency. It also means that we have a situation for those chosen in another way to decide on the majority in the Croatian Parliament. We now have one thin majority, however, obviously Plenkovic does not want to allow it either, and for this reason I will occupy this Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96894	I thank my esteemed colleague Grumoji for this debate. Even though you've strayed from the subject, I haven't interrupted you, you have your political reasons. I'd like you to return to your seat. No, I don't. Based on article 239, my esteemed colleague, Grmoya, I give you a warning, and I ask you again to take your place. No, I don't. In accordance with Article 240 of the basic Regulation, I take away the Rules of Procedure by warning you about this subject more and I ask you to leave the pay phone and return to your post.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96896	.../Intruder Bulj: Everything he said was right, he said, this is a natural government and he has the right to.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96897	If not, I shall base Article 241. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96898	.../Intruder Bulj: Integrated Authority is this, you are violating the Rules of Procedure Chairman./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96899	... I'm telling you a strict measure of distance from the Parliament session since you're acting against... This Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96900	.../Intruder Bulj: Break the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, this government violates everything./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96901	And by your behavior, you're making it impossible for the Parliament to work. I am giving you this strict measure during the duration of this debate and this item of the agenda. Thank you very much. This is what we're done with today with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96902	.../Intruder Bulj: This is a banana state, an institution, a banana./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96903	We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the closing words of the respected Secretary of State Zdravka Busic. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted for 21.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96904	Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, continue the debate. Yesterday, the agenda item The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen was not completed. The closing statement should have been by State Secretary Zdravka Busic, however, she gave up information I have from the secretary of the plenary session has one violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Mira Bulja. My friend Bulj, you've had a violation of the Rules of Procedure since yesterday?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96905	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure 33 were injured, but you were not, but was Mr. Brkic, where he basically stopped his colleague, Grmoy, in his democratic intention to point to a sample of the authorities in the collapse of the referendum. 400,000 people have collected signatures and this is what Grumoja, through the debate, wanted to point out, and I don't see any point in making it possible for the MP to point out the problem where the minister... Targeted [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] brought down the referendum. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Do I have time?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96906	No, no, later. I followed, you got 35 seconds, here's more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96907	Anyway, this is a dictatorship and targetedly ordered minister... who personally told me that he would do anything to bring down the democratic signatures that requested a referendum on amending the electoral law so that people who have 200 votes would not be here and who [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-10-0.u96908	.../Intruder President: I am warning you, colleague Bulj, because you are not listening to me and you are violating the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen, second reading, P.Z. No. 330. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen. Please, let's vote. I find that the unanimous 101 votes for the adopted Act on the Croatian Emigrants Queen.
