ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u78386	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. I would like to speak and inform the public, she is aware that a new class of people has been formed in Croatia, who, due to unspecified work for a certain period of time, has been named "prekarists". The original word in the Croatian translation is that these are people characterized by uncertainty, they are uncertain and they are unreliable and therefore have an uncertain future because they have become just an ordinary factor of production and are reduced to ordinary goods, and they are less and less viewed as human beings. About 90% of all work contracts concluded after the adoption of the new Labour Act are therefore concluded for a certain period of time, so this is a confirmation of the new class of people in Croatia. It is precisely liberalism, a liberal theory, that is, its source, that classical economic theory advocates such a labour market and labour prices, which is often referred to as the flexibility of wages in classical theory, i.e. liberalism, neoliberalism, as one of the key factors of establishing a balance in the economy. So if it's a recession, it's just enough that entrepreneurs, instead of firing a certain number of people or firing them or not, then reducing their wages, or diaries to a certain level, and the thing keeps rolling, or working. When it comes to foreign exchange exchange rate policy, it is often replaced by a mere reduction or retention of wages and low-level wages. Therefore, instead of depreciating its currency, the country is weak to maintain its exports' competitiveness, it does not access it, but rather lowers its wages to its workers, and this has the effect of having implemented devaluation or depreciation. Therefore, we see and believe in the party We change Croatia that the labour price is an extremely important factor in the economy, but from the draft Croatian state, labour and capital representatives have never defined what kind of capitalism they want, so between workers and employers, these issues are never resolved, and the labour price determines the motivation for work, staying on the domestic or foreign market, going there, the decision on marriage, the number of children and a lot more. In this context in Croatia, therefore, this segment is completely left to the market, to spontaneous movement, and so today we wash and reap the results that we have. However, it is shocking that the largest liberalisation of the labour market in Croatia has been carried out by the SDP. In 2014, the adoption of the Law on Labour and the Law, following the adoption of the law, became an intensive new class, which is over-prepared. They're vulnerable people, they're insecure, they're hard to start a family, they can't get a loan, they get sick more often than others according to research. We want as a party, as a socially sensitive party to translate this new class and stand behind them, defend their rights in Croatian society and the Croatian Parliament. In addition to working for a certain time, the problem is the level of minimum wage in Croatia. Gentlemen here all of you who voted for the minimum wage of 2750 kuna, be ashamed because you have contributed to the huge number of people, over 300,000 left in the past 5, 6 years Croatia, we have advocated that the minimumer be 4,000 kunas, you did not want to accept it, and today we all suffer. An amazing experiment has been made, you see, employers have also not been strategically thinking. In 2016 and 2017 they had over 23 and 14 billion kuna net profits. They had to separate more yet for workers' salaries so that no experiment would take place that 300,000 workers had to go to Germany, Austria, Australia and now what do we have? That labour prices rise drastically, especially masters, craftsmen and other highly qualified professions. It could have been done in time, it's not too late, let's do it until it's too late, bring labour and capital representatives with the help of the Parliament to define what state and society we want, let's not experiment, and all those who have led Croatia have experimented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85460	We are now on the agenda, first of all: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Energy Regulatory Activities, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 343 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is respected Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85461	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. The Energy Regulatory Act was adopted within 3 packages of EU energy legislation, which brings the Republic of Croatia in line with its energy legislation with EU rules. The law regulates the establishment and implementation of the energy regulation system, the procedure for the establishment of energy regulation bodies, and other issues identified for the regulation of energy activities. Since the EU is in the process of supplementing the third energy package, with implementing rules, there is a need for continued harmonisation of legislation, as well as for this law under continued supervision of the European Commission. Letter of service to the European Commission of 14 July 2017 vulnerabilities No. 2017-291 concerning the incorrect transposition of Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73 inconsistencies with the provisions of the E.Z. Regulations. 715/2009 of the Republic of Croatia has been informed that it has not fulfilled its obligation in accordance with certain provisions of Directive 2009/72 and of the Council on 13 July 2009 on a common... for the internal market, el. Energy and putting beyond the power of the directive... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and 54 Directives 2009/73 and 2003/55 and 715/2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission has launched an official investigation into the transposition of those Directives and has drawn attention to the incorrect transposition into the Croatian legal order of the specific directive, which concerns the independent loss of energy agencies. The Commission places particular emphasis on the powers and work of energy regulatory agencies, so the law must ensure that such an agency is an independent, independent and non-profit legal person with public powers. The founder of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency of the Republic of Croatia and the founding rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HERA is responsible for its work to the Croatian Assembly, HERA is one of the 28 national energy regulators, the EU Member States whose rights and obligations stem from the principles and basic acts of European energy legislation. The fundamental principles of action of each national EU energy regulator are legally guaranteed the independence of business and decision-making both in relation to the executive power and the interests and economic operators in the energy sector. This does not call into question close cooperation with other relevant national authorities, nor the government, which adopts general policy guidelines. Of course, along with the guaranteed independence of regulators, the other side of the balance which allows for the fulfilment of the energy regulation mission is legally prescribed responsibilities and transparency of work. In this respect, the European Commission has concluded, under the official duty of the investigation, that the applicable law must be amended, in order to fully comply with the provisions of the third energy legislation package of 2009. The amendments and additions to the Energy Activity Regulation shall, in particular, be governed by the following, the independence of the Agency on any political body, the independence of the political bodies shall include full independence from any body which may be associated with the Executive Authority, but shall not apply to judicial parliamentary supervision in accordance with the Constitutional Law. An independent body to which a party affected by a decision of the national regulator or agency has the right to appeal or the action is brought by the court. The question had not been set out before in the law and is now more detailed. It is arranged to provide an agency with objective and transparent declaration of power through decision-making from the scope of jurisdiction. Thus, the Agency monitors asphyxiation within the Croatian electricity system and the gas transport system and implements the rules in accordance with the laws governing the electricity and gas market. The decisions of the Agency may only be disputed before a court or body independent of the executive authority. In view of the fact that not only the energy operators supervised by the Agency needed to ensure that the Agency sought information on the market from natural and legal persons who had some contact with energy or all energy users, but not only from energy operators, as previously prescribed. Furthermore, the Agency's acts are regulated in more detail, the rules adopted by the Agency's Administrative Board lay down the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, duties and responsibilities, clearly prescribed content of the statutes of the Agency and the deadlines for the adoption of the statutes and regulations after adoption of this law have been clearly laid down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85462	We have two replicas, the first one's the honorary colleague of Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85463	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here's actually a quick question, given the current law and article 36, which defines that the Ministry can monitor the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency purely if you have the information, and I can understand that at this point you may not have all the data on you, how long has the ministry been in place since 2012, since this law has been in place to monitor the Agency's work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85464	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85465	Thank you, Your Honor. As many colleagues here tell me several times the Ministry has been monitoring from 2012 to today, the exact number I don't know now, but we can provide you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85466	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85467	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, the role and task of independent regulators is to control the one who performs certain services or sells certain products, as well as to protect those who buy them. I'm in this assembly there in 2012, 2013, '14, '15. He asked one question that Hera never answered. So then the government decided that HEP would be the bearer of economic development in the Republic of Croatia, raised the price of electricity 25% that would be invested, and also raised the price actually allowed the price of gas to rise, so far no investments have occurred, and at an annual level of approximately 3 billion kuna. I think HERA as an independent regulator had to react to that. This government probably has no idea about it because it's already gotten into one track, but when we talk about HERA in general when we talk about independent regulators we have a series of problems in this country that independent regulators haven't responded to in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85468	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's go see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85469	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. Here we have now also had a debate on amendments to this law on the Committee on Economy, of course understanding the situation that here again is in this law and in the next debate that will not be properly implemented by EU regulations under pressure we will do so, all in order to create greater independence. And it is precisely a question of the independence of work in this case of HERA, and also other institutions impose themselves on us as a source and those problems that have arisen primarily in the activities regulated by HERA. Many of the affairs that triggered the debate and eventually caused an increase in the compensation for renewable energy sources fought by this government, and probably in the very near future, we will have a need to increase again, all of which is due to the unreasonable, irrational decisions made during the period of 2013-2015, which is in the mandate of the government of Zoran Milanovic. It is precisely the areas with which HERA deals as such, and in this time we see that it is also the cause of controversy today. By participating in the conference now in the Opatija wood sector, the wood cluster has presented one of its requirements that one should make a change, which is that the advantageous, specific projects that are speculative to this day are not realised, are not in the system and are waiting for a customer to appear who will buy the rights they consider to have projects that remain below the line, which would significantly help develop both wood industries and also if we speak through the bio gas and development of agricultural production, saving a certain number of farms. In fact, I wouldn't say rescue, but an additional income that would allow them to be competitive with the current market conditions. In any case, the controversial decisions taken by HERA refer to, we also remember the pressure on the CAPS when both the Government and the decision of 17 September 2015 when practically and HERA questioned why the CAPS could not, does not want, in accordance with the technical conditions that they prescribe, to join all wind power plants. And then there was a political decision, and we say, to say it is one I would say even at this point and smaller if we remember the old year 2013 which is the administrative council, which the project has entered into the old year into the system of renewable energy sources, it is the wind power plant karst Falled where practically 250 million kuna in one decision alone, in one day, was allocated to a private company that is here connected with Zoran Milanovic. Just saying things like this that have burdened us, instead of considering and helping HERA to be independent in that time, and even now, I'm afraid these changes won't be enough. We could have significantly improved the system from renewable energy sources and would not have been problematic, would not have become an affair that was shaking and will still rock the entire Croatian public. At present, what we should consider to HERA is that it is made up of a governing council with several experts in which each individual should be in full responsibility, then there is always a question which is the majority that comes together when these difficult decisions are just coming up. Here we need to help, here and now that the only judicial and parliamentary supervision is the only modes that we can warn about such deviations in conduct, something that we should think about as a Parliament, means not to exert political pressure, but to try to figure out whether such practices behave. We're talking about negative practices. I could also talk here about the positive practices, the practices that HERA has implemented, but we always see that from time to time this anomaly appears and feels that politics does not allow, nor will it allow in this way as it currently agreed, HERA to be completely independent and to make technical decisions. I also referred to an example to the debate on the Assembly Committee, which, I do not know, in the county, in the congregations, or elsewhere, were able to gain insight into business, for example. gas supply. Also one regulated activity, controlled by HERA, and what's going on? It happens that the negatives that arise are linked to the sector that should be the cleanest, the one that should be an example for others, which is the public sector. In particular, there were discussions on the business of Eastern Slavonia gas pipelines whose work normally works within the framework of regulated activity, and the largest debt made up of two entities, it is a wine-making company that deals with the supply of thermal energy and swimming pools that are in Vinkovci. Then how do you expect everyone else to be successful paid? To economicize the growth of these companies? And from that comes what is crucial, pressure on HERA, pressures that when forming a regulated price it must also calculate the losses that disappear by non-guilty, perhaps the gas supplier, but precisely those entities that should not be the first debtors. But we're closing up over those eyes. We are willing to say yes, but it is for the greater good, but when we look at such companies with political staffing, with negative selection we create additional pressures throughout the system, instead of making it to the lowest energy prices and those regulated in the domain of regulation where HERA should be more significant, sharper, identify bad practices, bad policies that are conducted in these companies, push through the price to change, that owners in that case, if these are local self-governments or any other public entities, that they must recognise that they have no problems, their own consumption, transfer through the whole system, and that then through regulated prices that determines HERA become the cost of all citizens. It is a covered mechanism, a mechanism that is operational, which creates problems in the functioning of HERA, where you should not only think about how to remain independent, if every day someone presses you from any domain of politics, to make a concession, and we are aware that politics has a strong influence, that politics wants to manage and that politics in this way, instead of helping Croatian citizens, creates adverse consequences. They can welcome the passing of laws, but the secretary of state, the laws are carried out by people. While these people are not aware that by their actions they will shoot us all at a breakthrough in which here, we cannot reach that bottom, we all expect once to hit that bottom and then go back to some domain and rational and reasonable thinking, here we are repeating previous affairs we are creating new, perhaps smaller, perhaps more hidden, but also affecting all those supplies that are actually the basis of the development of Croatian society. And you will find no Croatian citizen, no family who will agree that for the sake of policy failure there should be more expensive electricity, more expensive gas or any other supply. Hera is currently conducting a public debate on activities related to the LNG terminal, which should be determined by the modality, of course the key issue is being raised, I read and advise everyone to read, in the morning list we had one analysis of Mr Biočina who rightly questions the economic viability of the project and the possibility of spilling costs on Croatian citizens. Let's not let politics be the one that will affect again because of the inability to find a better solution, that this cost through pressure on HERA and others who decide to transfer it back to Croatian citizens. Because we all accused in the past society during the communist rule that the loops that later failed, the LNG terminal as such certainly has great advantages, can give us support in developing our gas supply independence as one of the key strategic energys, but let's not allow for speed, evidence, power or inability to rationally approach the project itself so that we become the hostages of that project that HERA that should be key, technical, to say an evaluation institution cannot give its own position that will be truly professionally followed and with all future impact projections. Because we all communicate publicly, we also heard in public communication that we want LNG to help with its supply to achieve lower gas prices on the Croatian market. If we're really going to get that, I'd ask HERA what are the calculations that need to be secured and I wouldn't ask that question to the government or the ministry because I don't think they have enough technical expertise to justify such opinions. And that is why independence and expertise and key I would say why we are still discussing this law today, and I hope that this little shift will do something precisely in the discussions that HERA's expert bodies need to present to the public, ultimately standing behind it so that we don't get re-opened with certain decisions so that the speculators can collect the documentation in a short time so that decisions don't happen in the old year, that we don't get pressures on those who technically say that they can't do anything. Here is all the tasks, obligations, not the HERA as institutions, but every member of them and, of course, us who are in the Parliament because we are taking over, we have taken responsibility to perform and monitor, especially at such negative phenomena that have brought significant damage to Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85470	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so we're going to another debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Miro Totgergeli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85471	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries with associates. Well, before us is the Energy Regulation Act, and for the first time, the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament in July 2001, along with the Electricity Market Act, which is also on the agenda today. In 2001, in fact, the reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began and the first energy law pact, the Energy Act, the oil and oil products market, the gas market and the two laws already mentioned. The first energy law package enabled the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector, the opening of the electricity and other energy markets, the regulation of energy activities as well as the restructuring of energy subjects and the creation of a new legislative and institutional framework, the establishment of market rules, public service obligations and the separation of energy activities to the market and those regulated. The Law on energy regulation in 2001 was in fact established by that Law by the Council for the Regulatory of Energy Activities of 5 members. And along with the council, the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Pozhar was appointed, who was conducting the preparation and professional work for the needs of the council. As energy legislation became one of the important segments on the road to EU membership, the Croatian Parliament adopted in December 2004 a second set of energy laws that then made adequate adjustments to European energy legislation and standards to organise the internal European market. The 2004 Act establishes the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as a public and independent institution with an administrative board, director of the Agency and employees of the Agency and the Administrative Board is appointed by the Croatian Parliament. This 2004 law was amended in 2007 because in those three years it was realised that there were not sufficiently clear and uniformly resolved issues of the organisation and mode of operation of the Agency, the responsibility and competence of the Governing Council, the President of the Governing Council and the member of the Governing Council and the responsibility and competence of the Director of the Agency. Amendments to the 2007 law have defined that the Agency is managed by the chairman of the Governing Council, who is responsible for professional work and business as well as the legality of the Agency's work. As the European Parliament and the Council adopted on 13 July 2009 the 3rd Energy Regulation package and Croatia made a commitment to adapt its energy legislation to the third package, the Croatian Parliament also voted on the 3rd Energy Regulation Act on 19 October 2012, which regulates the energy sector and powers of the national HERA regulator, as it was then thought to be regulated under the provisions of Directives 72 and 73 of 2009 and Regulation 713 also from 2009. HERA has received extensive, normative, executive and supervisory powers as well as powers in the field of energy price and activity regulation compensation. And should have become legally and functionally separate from all public and private entities including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Energy. In addition to this little chronology of 17 years, we also arrived until 14 July 2017 when the letter of the European Commission received an official notice of injury, and regarding the irregular transposition of these Directives 72 and 73 of 2009 and Regulation 715 also from 2009. The Commission therefore drew attention to the incorrect transposition into the Croatian legal order of the directive concerning the independence of the work of the energy agency or energy agencies. Accordingly, these amendments to the laws are proposed to amend the provisions on the independence of the regulatory authority or HERA in terms of the possibility of making a decision independently of any political body. Although Article 22 of the existing law and in a similar form, this formulation appears in the 2004 law, it defines that the Agency is independent in the taking of all organisational and other measures necessary for the smooth performance of the business, meeting obligations under this law and other energy laws, and Article 8 which defines that the Agency is responsible for its work only to the Croatian Parliament, and these articles are in the proposal of this law and do not change, in particular doubts about the independence of the Agency's work in any political body and also in the Government, it challenges the existing Article 36, which states that the supervision of the work of the Agency is carried out by the Ministry and the existing Article 7(5), which defines that the consent to the statute of the Agency is given by the Government. By proposed law, such a form of supervision of the Agency's work is deleted and the Agency is only obliged to submit once a year to the Croatian Assembly a report on its work as it has done, and so far in the light of the existing Article 33, which does not change in the proposal for this law, and is proposed to give consent to the statutes of the Agency instead of the Government of the Croatian Parliament. It is also proposed to adopt a specific regulation laying down the conditions to be met by professional leaders and their rights, duties and responsibilities, which were defined by the statutes of the Agency under the existing law. The process of expanding the energy market and regulating energy activities forces the Agency to request data, reports and other necessary documents in its work other than energy subjects necessary to carry out the tasks of the Agency and of natural and legal persons who have some contact with energy. It is therefore proposed to replace Article 6 of Article 35(1) of the word ‘energy entities’ in the words ‘every natural and/or legal person’. In this respect, paragraph 3 is also amended, so here I propose that the applicant consider the second reading and, in Article 35, paragraph 4, the word "energy entity" to replace the words "every natural or legal person". It is somehow imposed as logical when we propose to extend the Agency's powers to all legal and physical persons who have some contact with energy, that, then, obligations rather than agencies in terms of this same existing Article 35, we extend to all those legal and physical persons who in some way have contact with energy. I would also suggest that, in Article 14 of the proposed law, instead of "the Ministry of Environment and Energy" be "the Ministry of Energy." The proposed Articles 7 to 11 of the proposed law define in detail the Agency's powers in the control process as well as making binding decisions in relation to natural and legal persons and giving effective proportionate and appropriate sanctions to those who fail to comply with their obligations and all on the basis of the established factual situation in the supervisory procedure. It is also proposed that the court shall be an independent body affected by the decision of the national regulator or agency, having the right to appeal or action. So far, the ministry has been defined in certain cases as a secondary body. By adopting this bill after 17 years, we come from that initial Energy Regulatory Council of 5 members who depended on the Croatian Fire Institute because the Institute has been doing a professional part of its work, we come to a regulatory agency that becomes virtually independent of the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Energy. The supervision of the work of HERA has only the Croatian Parliament, as some of our colleagues like to say, directly chosen by the people, and the decisions of HERA are only decided by the courts. Now, if after this chronology that I took out, we remember a little bit in 2001, then we had a situation that those who wanted to install on their roof collectors and produce electricity, at that point had neither a model nor a way for HEP to know what would have done with them to make that energy they produced at some point and take over into the system. Today we have virtually every settlement of a citizen of ours, a buyer, some business facility that is in one but the buyer and the electricity manufacturer. And in these 17 years, the building of the HERA institution, and it's hard to build an independent institution, has actually shown itself through today's debate on the Committee on Economy where the question immediately arises and who will now oversee this HERA? On the one hand, we want to have institutions that are independent, independent, that function, make their decisions independently of the government, because we need it for regulation, and on the other hand we wonder what happens now, how will this institution work when the government doesn't monitor it. It is a constant question, I think that sometimes we politicians take the right to decide everything and sometimes we need to make such a system that the system can function completely independently of our decisions and that it can also control us in action. Therefore, after this debate, they can only conclude that the HDZ Club supports the further building of the Energy Regulatory Agency as an independent institution and will therefore, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85472	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so we're going to an individual debate now. The first is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85473	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we know that there are significant needs of the Republic of Croatia for electricity and we are familiar with the statistics on the annual reports that HEP has been achieving several years between 1.5 billion and 2 billion and even more kuna net gains and the question is why no significant part of such profits in capital investments has been used both in the construction of new hydropower plants and in the construction of renewable energy sources. What the public doesn't know is that HEP didn't build any wind power plants. I repeat, he hasn't built or invested in any wind power plant. Why? Well obviously there were already agreements between the two parties that ruled Croatia that it was a party business and that wind energy should be used in this way and that it was a minority forbidden area for the investment of other entities. The production of electricity from wind power plants increased from 0.5% to 9% in 2016 and this area should and must be illuminated by the Croatian public. What is also particularly important, between 2010 and 2016, wind prices have changed 15 times. Please answer from the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency why, if you regulate this market, then you must explain to the public why the price of electricity produced from wind power plants, which is in the interest, and certainly is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because we are paying expensive electricity anyway. What should also be said here because we need to conduct reasoned debates, we are serious people, we should not sell cheap pulsism because only serious and experienced people with knowledge can get this country out of the crisis and turn in the right direction. The question should be asked why this price of electricity generation from wind power plants is 3 times the average electricity price purchased according to the markets in Hungary, Slovenia, electricity markets. Of course, you will say because this production is more expensive, etc., I as an economist understand it. And we see as nowhere rarely where investments in the Republic of Croatia have succeeded as in the segment of the wind power plant. Well, you see, it's great to have a job with the state. It's this roof capitalism, so first you take concessions, you have a price guaranteed in fact which this interest group clearly defines, proposes and defines, and then all of us as citizens of consumers have to pay all this together. And a state-owned company like HEP that has free money means, in recent years, it's billions, it's not imagined it built or invested in any wind power plant. Here visible from the plane that things aren't working, that obviously some other interests are at stake and that's why the signed contracts are signed as they are and then we're told, like it was a year ago when there was a big mess about it, and so we can't change anything because the contract is a contract, it can't be changed. All this is said together, dear colleagues and colleagues, that this segment of the electricity market, that it is therefore bred and devoured by different interests, does not make investments in favour of the wider economy. It is that these are capital-intense investments that little people employ. However, it is obviously well earned. The report we discuss here from year to year, they don't answer such questions. The discussions that are being conducted here don't trouble things, these questions that way. We need to democratisation the production of electricity, and there to make someone, put some solars to produce themselves, and you can't see it. It can't. Why our farmers can't produce on their farms, see that's the problem. Go to Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and you will see a bunch of these solars. But we see it's just one of the areas in the Republic that we see doesn't work, that everything is upside down. But I repeat, when it comes to other interests, you see, it works great. It works great, these investments go, and suffers general national interest when it comes to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So I ask HERA representatives how free they are to question these things that I say, and how much they have to keep quiet or not to deal with it, is this wind power business, is it typical party business and is it already achieved then, is the foundations of the large coalition as the business of both parties in this business already hit, because we see that they agree when it comes to such topics, finances, energy, etc. Here, I want and I want to send a message to this HERI, or to the representatives, you are appointed by the Assembly to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and please answer these questions in writing or in writing or, therefore, best in writing in one appropriate time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85474	We have one replica, dear colleague Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85475	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, so I answered the line when you said that HEP has had profits for years and has not invested in any serious capital facility for the production of els. Energy. So my opinion is that he didn't actually invest, because every object that's being prepared, someone finds out who's saying it doesn't work for that reason and that's how we actually spin the story from one object to another, and we can't go into building something, because for some reason, that object always bothers someone. We had a virtually fully prepared Ombla hydropower plant in 2011, then the next government came, which simply suspended it, and loans were prepared for the facility. We've practically had damages because we've secured loans and everything that's been invested in this project for years has finally failed. That's about why we don't have a serious object built to produce el. Energy in the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85476	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Totgergeli, I am familiar with these explanations why HEP did not invest in projects, in the energy sector, but ask yourself a question, why did no one object to that hill or on those hills when the citizens of the wind power plant, that it was all going so smoothly. We know what problems wind power plants bring when it comes to birds, when it comes to the Buddha they create, when it comes to air traffic safety, etc. But I never noticed anyone raise their voice. All of these together are not the real reasons to ask these questions. So if they couldn't build a thermal power plant because of that and that or a hydro power plant for a certain reason, I'm asking a question, why didn't they build a single wind power plant, and there you see it all going without a problem. Apparently, that's where other interests are defended, not generally good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85477	This is what we came to the end of the debate, no one has answered anymore, so let's move on to the final address on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85478	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I would like to thank you for the debate. In a few sentences, I see that you actually support this law because it is clear that this law is heading towards total independence of an agency called HERA in our country. What I have to say, the agency, as is said here, is made up of people, and these people are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. So the entity that is absolutely competent to speak and to influence the work of this agency is the Croatian Parliament and it is clearly possible by this law and that this is what the intensity and legislation of both European and Croatian are. The control of the courts is also clear, because the courts will control everything the ministry would control. In the meantime, I found out about your question of a respected representative about the view, there were two points of view on the subject of renewable energy sources during this period that you asked by the ministry. And to the esteemed representative Lovrinović, I would only say that your debate is not really for today's law, but for the law that will very soon come to the benches of this esteemed House, which is the Law on restored energy sources and high effective cogeneration. The same thing, actually, all the time, we discussed on that subject. What the Ministry and finds the government is obliged to do, as far as we're concerned, we'll do as best and more effectively as possible, and that's to produce as many better legal proposals as possible that you can adopt, so that HERA can do as best, more efficiently and independently as possible, and that there will be as little public opposition as possible. That's what I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85479	Thank you. We have 3 replicas, the first fellow Panenic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85480	Thank you, Secretary of State, I think that the bill itself, as such a alignment with EU regulations, is ultimately, I see from this debate, here, and this has been evident before, that there will be no impediment to the proposal that goes into independence, but then we come to this, why, if this law, if it is already harmonisation, if we know that we have not had any discrepancies by and under the pressure of the European Commission, why has it not gone to a hasty debate, means that we have one reading, an urgent procedure to be. I think it becomes a real question, because for this kind of thing right now, which we really need to coordinate, we're going to have two readings, and by the very character of the law and by the content of the law, it should be a safe suggestion to go through an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85481	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85482	The government's commitment to minimally go with the emergency procedure law, we think that this law can go into 2 readings without any problem, because the same proposal can quickly be passed on to another reading, to adopt, so we don't see why, that month, can be problematic. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85483	Let's go to another replica, dear fellow Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85484	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, regardless of the regulatory agencies, at the time they were set up, was that they had a financial special position and that responsibility for their work was borne here in this House of Commons. The government can give its opinion on that report. However, and I am sorry that this is not mentioned here today, in 2013, I think it was, because of the beauty of the picture in the budget, the HERA budget was incorporated into the budget of the Ministry of Economy. At that time, 650 million, as much as the HERA budget was placed in the position of the Ministry of Economy, to make the deficit of the state budget look nicer. Therefore, if we are talking and this is one of the reasons why the European Commission has given a negative opinion on independence. Because if we are talking about independence, then whoever regulates the behavior of those who provide services, has certain financial resources, can dispose of them in the manner prescribed by the law, and the decision on how they were doing and how they had this High House, i.e. Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85485	Thank you. Would you like an answer? No, I don't. Then we'll go to the third line, dear colleague Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85486	Thank you very much. We've heard now that HERA is a serious one objection is not even financially dependent, and someone who isn't financially dependent then really raises the question of whether he can be addicted at all. You said here earlier that the leadership there is appointed by the Croatian Parliament, you well know that the ruling policy and the ruling coalition determines people who will lead certain segments and so on to HERA. In this context, therefore, these are serious objections in Croatia are a lot of these incestuous relationships, independence cannot be viewed in a way that you are not financially independent, so the people say the hand that receives is always under the hand that gives. Therefore, you are obviously not independent and it must change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85487	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85488	Your Honor, first of all, you have been addressing us as HERA, and we are representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and Government. And I wouldn't agree with you if HERA wasn't independent because it's being financed from the state budget, it's absolutely not true. HERA is independent because there is a law that gives it independence in the way it is financed again there is a law by which it is financed and how and how it spends so that it definitely and cannot be challenged by any majority that parliament appoints these same majority people in HERA because then we ask the question of the Constitution and the fundamental laws that we cannot agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85489	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Before moving to the second point, we welcome all students and students and their teachers from the Tin Ujević elementary school in Osijek together. Welcome. [[Applause]] Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulation Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 343, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, and I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulation Act and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. I find that most votes, 78 for, 42 abstentions and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85492	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The 2013 Electricity Market Act and the 2015 amendment were adopted as part of the 3rd EU energy legislation package in which the Republic of Croatia complies its energy legislation with EU rules. The electricity market law regulates the rules and measures for safe and reliable production, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity and for electricity trade and the organisation of electricity as part of the EU electricity market. Furthermore, rules relating to the protection of final customers, the organisation and functioning of the electricity sector, open access to the market, the determination of the obligations of general services and the rights of consumers of electricity, including the rights of final customers, separate management of business books, financial reports, rules of access to the network and the principles of reciprocity and cross-border transmission of electricity are laid down. The letter of formal notice and of this law, the European Commission has informed us of the violation of all those directives that I have mentioned and of the previous law that we have just had the opportunity to discuss here. Given that the EU is in the process of supplementing the 3rd electricity package with implementing regulations intensively and continuously overseeing national legislation and implementing existing legislation, it has launched an investigation into the transposition of provisions establishing the electricity market into Croatian legislation and has drawn attention to irregularities relating to the certification of transmission system operators in relation to third countries, irregularities relating to certain tasks of the transmission system operator for electricity. It also pointed to irregularities relating to the request for confidentiality of data for transmission system operators and their owners and irregularities relating to the provisions concerning the independence of the system operator’s administration which includes the right to object to the regulatory body. These issues are covered by the proposal to amend and supplement the laws in a way that removes the observed irregularities, thus changing the scope of the 3rd country's concept of certification of transmission system operators and certification must also be passed by companies coming from the Member States of the Energy Community. The obligation to protect the confidentiality of data that the transmission system operator and each transmission system owner receives during the performance of their activities shall be prescribed and shall prevent information on their own activities which may be commercially useful from being disclosed in a discriminatory manner. The transmission system operator is obliged to draw up and publish the rules for the management of congestion within the Croatian power system with the Agency's agreed consent, not just to have rules for cross-border waters as so far prescribed. The Agency shall become the only competent authority to grant or approve consent to the rules adopted by the transmission system operator. Among the additions there is a definition that enables the electricity manufacturer to obtain electricity on the wholesale market for the needs of the pump operation of the reversible hydropower plant. This is the definition necessary for a competitive supply of services on the electricity market, especially at intervals when there are sudden disturbances in the reserves of the system itself. In order to strengthen the market and administrative discharge of suppliers, the supplier may only have a signed contract with the distribution system operator but not with the transmission system operator for household customers. This reduces the supplyer's cash liability since it does not have to have two payment insurance instruments for ODS and for CROPS, but only one is sufficient. It will also be possible, without further procedures, to resolve the contractual relationship between these participants by supplementing the existing contract. The amendments also include a greater right for customers when it comes to bills they receive for spent electricity. In particular, the supplier's obligation to issue a single account is stressed only to final customers of the household category. By paying the selected supplier, all fees shall be paid to the distribution and transmission system operator involved in the single amount. As for other categories of final customers, one or two invoices may be issued. In the case of two accounts, one is paid to the supplier and the other is paid to the system operator so far. The account issued by the supplier shall cover the costs of the supply of energy and all charges, while the other account shall cover the transmission and distribution networks of the customers on the distribution network in accordance with the tariff systems. The minimum content of the interconnection agreement between transmission and distribution system operators shall also be determined in accordance with these amendments. In addition, the law makes clear the rights of the members of the administration, the system transfer operator, to declare complaints to the Agency regarding the quality of the operations under their jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85493	Thank you. Here you go, my fellow Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85494	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So just one quick question, given the rise in energy prices, we're interested in what electricity prices are expected and what will be the answer? I know you're not the regulator, you're the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, but I believe you can answer me that these effects are at least somehow softened because we're witnessing quite a price hike on the energy market. I will only mention the gas market situation when the price was 17 euros per megawatt during the negotiations of the gas year, and now it has grown to 22 euros. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85495	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Mr Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85496	As far as we're concerned, we're doing everything we can to ensure that all legislative and sublegal acts are proposed and adopted in the sense that all the additional and potential costs that occur at the final price of electricity are reduced as possible. And the basic problem with the market price of electricity, clearly we can't directly influence it at the moment because you also know that the electricity in Croatia has been liberalised for many years. But what we have to say as a ministry, which is that we will do everything we can through both energy strategy and all future legislation stimulates the production of electricity in Croatia, so that we are not exposed to the shocks of expensive electricity at times when the burdens are high, and that has become exclusively summer in recent years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85497	Thank you. Since the committees won't take the word right now, we can open the debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85498	Thank you very much. At this point, we can practically continue the previous debate and actually discuss the role of the transmission system operator primarily because in some ways the most relevant is them. And exactly what I said, that problem that was tied up where HERA was pressuring the HopS to add those extra 300 and some megawatts to get into the system, essentially crossing technical constraints. So we allowed politics, by its decision, to actually derivate professional technical views which clearly showed that in Croatia, every megawatt wind power plant must have a megawatt of base energy that will balance the system. I'd just remind you exactly what's going on? If you've been following a little bit, the one who might have looked at this, reports of the participation of the wind power plants in its production, you might notice that there are certain anomalies. There are days even during 24 hours where production from these systems is approaching 0. At one point it was even negative, it means that the wind plants were pulling electricity for their own consumption. And now that we're going through these wind power systems, what's going on? We have failed to balance the system, and on the other hand we risk having such negative consequences or having a possible suppression of the system. And the costs of all of this, the investments that are made are all of us together, and that is why it is precisely the role of the transmission system operator that is particularly important and is being considered by this proposal. I'll tell you one thing: any megawat that comes into our system uninterrupted that doesn't create a problem, that requires approximately, an estimated 150 000 euros of investment in the transmission system, which we haven't implemented. We haven't even implemented a solution to base energy, it was now and in the previous debate why, where our projects stopped, they stopped at the Perus, stopped at the introduction of conventional sources under renewable sources, don't forget that no gas system will go into production itself, unless there's an aided incentive cost of production, which we all pay together. It is now happening to us that we have in Zagreb such a system, which we are crying significantly. The intention was to have such a system in Osijek, to be 450 megawatts, which we must subsidize again. On Peraqi, appreciating all the efforts of the people who want to protect there, the environment, it's not at all a hydropower plant, it's again about the gash of one system, which again requires incentive, because it would enter the support system. And we fight the battle all the time, right in those relations, the intentions, the desires of individuals, groups, the pressure on our regulators on systems that should be independent, which should be professional, that they must accept everything that comes to someone's mind, and that as little as possible comes out of their words, out of their mouths, words that indicate that this is harmful to the Croatian system, that it is harmful to Croatian citizens and that the price of it must be paid by all of us. And then we get to that crucial moment, and that's the changes that apply to art. 30, i.e., Art. the new Article 30. And where it is clearly said that system transmission operator, rules should be drawn up for the management of congestion within the Croatian Power System, however, another obligation is imposed, which is the previous consent of HERA. So the previous agreement, that institution, which if we remember at that time also pressured, that with that 400 megawatts, which was some restriction, increased to 744 that all systems enter the drive, although they claimed that there were technical difficulties, technically there are restrictions. And what's extra art. 30 A where the Agency may require changes and additions. So it's not an operator who determines the real problem and as such suggests, but the HERA gives the order to change something. Then we ask ourselves, what is the meaning of the existence of a system transmission operator, if someone is going to impose the rules again, the rules that have brought us a problem and a cost in this previous time, and an additional cost in the near future. I believe that the proposer has actually strengthened the treatment that we have already convinced ourselves that there have been negative consequences. We need to go back to the expert study and that we have an independent, quality study that will show the real effects of entering the system of primarily renewable energy sources, which is needed as a prerequisite, how this will affect the costs of the entire system, not only at the arbitrary price of energy, but also at its transport, how we can answer the question asked by the Chamber of Commerce, if someone can produce an el. renewable energy if there is a customer abroad. What are the preconditions for that? Is that technically possible, as it happens? There are a lot of issues that are being raised, and therefore, by estimating the effort to further regulate this part in line with European legislation, we are once again facing the problem, which we have already seen through all our discussions that it has done invaluable damage, where at this point, our institutions, which are independent, had to oppose the government's decision of Zoran Milanovic, and to say that this is technically problematic, cost-effective and cost-effective for citizens, are devastating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85499	I would like to thank my colleague, Tomislav Panenic, for the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85500	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, we have another law, so-called. Energy law ahead of us. This existing law on the market el. Energy, as the secretary of state has already said, was adopted in 2013 as part of the third package of laws, where the Republic of Croatia was harmonising its energy legislation with EU regulations. This law has experienced its first amendments to the Government Regulation on 3 September 2015. And then already on 18 September and in 2015 in the Croatian Parliament, significant amendments and additions to the law of 2013 were adopted. These amendments were now initiated by the Proposer, first of all, on the basis of the Commission's opinion, that they were incorrectly transferred to the Croatian legal order, the provisions relating to the certification of the transmission system operator, which is in relation to third countries, the provisions concerning the request for confidentiality of data for the transmission system operator and its owners, as well as those provisions relating to the independence of the system operator's administration, which includes the law of appeal to the regulatory body. Article 2 of the proposed law introduces a safeguard clause on the sensitivity, i.e. confidentiality of data that the transmission system operator and each transmission system owner receives during the performance of their activity and which prevents information on their own activities which may be commercially useful to reveal in a discriminatory manner. The existing Article 10, which defines the production of electricity, is complemented by the items where it is defined that the electricity producer at the calculation site of the reversible hydropower plant can obtain electricity on the wholesale market. In this proposal for a law proposed in Article 4, if I am well aware of what is being changed in the existing Article 19, it is that an independent transmission operator rather than providing the Agency with consent to all commercial and financial contracts with a vertically integrated entity, it shall submit them to the previous consent that it seems to be the same as the first one, but may allow the reading itself to create the impression that the transmission system operator is more independent of the vertically integrated entity if it gives the Agency something to the previous consent rather than consent. Or the impression that something stronger is the position of HERA if this proposed formulation is adopted. The existing Article 20, which defines the independence of the staff and members of the SPS administration, gives the Agency an opportunity. HERA shall challenge the appointment of members of the administration, i.e. the terms of the contract with the members of the administration, as well as in cases of early termination of the term of office. It was defined in the law as early as 2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, it is not clear what if the Supervisory Board persists in its intention and HERA in its own who is then in charge. This could be interpreted as being responsible for energy because it is actually defined in some procedures as a secondary decision-making body for HERA. The proposed amendments make this more clear. For members of the administration in cases of early termination of the term of office, it is proposed that they have the right to appeal to HERA, and the decision of HERA is defined by the possibility of starting a administrative dispute. Which means, for example, in this case, the Supervisory Board can then launch an administrative dispute against HERA. The existing Article 30 is taxed in 54 points, which are all responsibilities of the transmission system operator and these amendments are added to the obligation to draw up and publish the rules for the management of congestion within the Croatian electricity system including the connected lines, with the resulting prior consent of HERA. The existing Article 31 defines that the transmission system operator lays down rules on the balance of the electricity system with the prior consent of the market operator and the agency. The proposed Article 8 wishes to strengthen the HERA and the powers not to adopt the rules of the operator without its consent. It is defined in fact that market participants with public powers such as energy market operators give professional opinions on the rules of the operator but it is the only agency that gives or deny consent. The Directive therefore obliges the transmission system operator to be the only entity that adopts the rules and the Agency is the only competent authority that approves them. The proposed Article 9(2) considers that it is very positive that it is proposed to strengthen the market and administrative discharge of suppliers the possibility that the supplier may only have a contract with the distribution system operator and not with the transmission system operator for the final customers of the household category. In this way, the supplier’s cash obligation is reduced, given that they do not have to have two pay insurance instruments, but only one is sufficient. I also think it is good that it is proposed for customers who are connected to the distribution network and do not have a single account that then the account issued by the distribution system operator also contains compensation for the use of the transmission and distribution network. In that case, HEP and HEP ODS shall regulate each other's payments by mutual relations agreement. What I think may still be considered by the second reading is this provision proposed in the current Article 46 paragraph 11 where, according to the applicable law, each supplier must now issue a single account to its final customers in the category of household but also to other low voltage customers. It is now proposed that the household remains in a unique account and that all customers remain largely small entrepreneurs, so it is mainly about some locals, shops and the like because in this category entrepreneurship is the largest number of entrepreneurs actually on a low voltage that they can now be issued a single account. It may be very similar, because suppliers are forced to keep what they offer to customers and will probably continue to try to keep a single account for the customers of entrepreneurship, but this is then imposed between suppliers and HEP ODS, whether HEP ODS will force it to issue its own network account compared to suppliers. So here I think that maybe until the second reading, we should consider whether to leave the formulation that is currently in force by the law or the one that you have proposed. And for the end of another part of the proposal that was part of the public consultation, given that it was imagined that this law would go according to an urgent procedure and that it would be the final proposal of the law many of the proposals were in the comments of the reasoning stated that it would be considered for the next amendments because it comes from those who participate in the process and encounter some problems. So now that the opportunity is and has given up the emergency procedure, it goes into regular procedure, we have first and second reading, that between this first and second reading you may once again consider all these proposals that were in the public debate and for the second reading them in part and respect them. The HDZ Club, of course, will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85501	Thank you. We're done arguing on behalf of the representatives' clubs and MPs. The next debate is an individual debate. Comrade Ivan Lovrinović, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we have a law on the energy market and here is a fundamental reason for changing this current law are messages from Brussels, a directive to bring it into line because it is not well applied, implemented in the existing law in Croatia. You see, when the instructions come from Brussels to Parliament are discussed quickly, things change quickly, the law changes quickly, and when something needs to be done because of our needs and real problems, then such changes of the law either rarely come or are not put on the agenda at all. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss this energy market in Croatia and warn representatives and MPs, the Croatian public, that Croatia has become energy-hazarded because it is increasingly investing in electricity production, and data show that consumption is growing year after year. So we're energized. So, therefore, the state of security of electricity supply should be submitted by the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection every year when this Parliament and the public report, and by law, means the existing Energy Act, Article 27. The ministry is obliged to do so, with the obligation in these reports to provide estimates, to make balance sheets of production and energy consumption for 5 to 15 years in advance. We now have a report that speaks about what happened last year, imagine. So you're not looking forward to a year, let alone 5 to 15 years, but you're just reporting to the public what happened last year. This says that this government, as well as those before, does not have a vision of the development of energy independence or as little dependence as possible on energy imports. That this is true and that the public really needs to be warned about serious problems, data show that by 2023, more than 1160 megawatts of thermal power plants are expected to leave the plant due to the EU environment directive. So the question is, how are we going to catch up, so after 2023, how are we going to make up for that part of the energy that's missing, that we're not producing? In this context, we are exposed to greater dependence on electricity imports. In this context, we change ourselves again in front of the party. I am in favour of democratisation of the construction of renewable energy sources, so that every citizen, farmer and everyone, let us produce electricity ourselves, you see, and I can say, and I will say very openly, it is systematically disabled, just so that the stakeholders, the interesting lobbyes, can secure themselves a place and area of prosperity and profit, let's say, by privatising the possibility of power generation. We have witnessed the attempt to privatise HEP in recent years, and I myself participated in 2015, and I am very glad that, together with the HEP Workers' Council, I managed to stop this one dangerous attempt to privatise and fortunately that it was really so because then the Minister of Energy, Mr. Vrdoljak, really had serious intentions to resolve this before the election itself. The party Change Croatia advocates that the law prevents the privatisation of HEP, while the maximum share of private capital is 10 to 15%. Why? So for them to be, it's symbolic, but to be like a pebble in a shoe and to be questioned and to know what's going on there. When we talk about electricity production, then it should be noted that political management in HEP has been producing adverse consequences for our energy system for years. We know how political administrations are placed there, by which criteria, on the other hand, we see that HEP has become practically a state-run firm run by one party. Watch out, that's got to be scary. This is the result of a policy that has been conducted over the past years, where the cost of peace and settlement of interest makes energy independence a sacrifice, the necessary energy capacity is not being built, and then we see that stakeholders are doing their job. This should already be prevented and stopped once with such policy-making. There is something else harmful that threatens Croatia's energy sector. You see in HEP that every year, thank God for making a significant profit, what's going on? A significant part of the gain is taken by the Ministry of Finance, or the State, instead of using that money to build capital facilities, hydropower plants, renewable energy sources owned by HEP, so that the price of electricity could be reduced, reduced in the interest of all citizens. But that's not what it comes to. In this way, the Ministry of Finance, taking the money, obtained from public companies, covers the state budget, shows to all of us that it is in surplus, and we see that this is done to damage new investment in public enterprises. That's true in this case of HEP. And finally to conclude that the government has no vision of the development of the energy sector in Croatia, we see that each one is working on its own, that stakeholders are prevailing and that energy security is being threatened. When we rise from the frog's perspective into a bird's perspective and talk about the liberalisation of the electricity market, so we talked about the liberalisation of the banking sector, the liberalisation of trade, the liberalisation of the teleoperate market, what did we finally get, gentlemen? We finally got the most expensive signal, that we have the highest interest rates, and if it's allowed to be done in the energy sector then we're at risk from all sides, then this country just formally exists on paper. As a party, we will change Croatia to do everything to resist this kind of privatisation of everything and everything, we will insist on sovereignty, energy sovereignty because we have the potential of biomass, hydroenergy, renewable energy sources of others, and therefore we will advocate and we will advocate that the democratisation of micro-producers is carried out primarily on this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85503	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a colleague of Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85504	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinović. So here's the two important points about the energy sector we'll be able to finish in less than two hours. It seems that today the entire session will be ready before lunch, so the consequences of the introduction of the new Rules of Procedure are clearly seen where MPs are actually denied the right and demoted to debate. Only those who did not attend the meetings had kept silent before, and now we see that those who have had the opportunity to speak, too, because it is simply their time for any discussion that is limited. Here is the public now who can see whose rights are being denied and how one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia that represents the most legislative body works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85505	Although it has nothing to do with the subject, here's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85506	Dear comrade Bunjac, I understand what you're saying. When the debate is on important issues such as energy security, electricity production and potential price reductions, and not constantly increasing then this ends quickly, it goes quickly, has support. Why? Because this is where the hands are secured to pass these laws. All that says is the Parliament was pushed aside. We are not the top government in the Republic of Croatia, we are in charge of government, interest groups in this case energy producers, financial institutions, and so everything has changed. And I therefore tell the Croatian citizens that it is high time that these parties that have led us over the past years become the past and that we turn really determined with knowledge, experience and with serious people to turn Croatia in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85507	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85508	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, first you realized Mr. Lovrinović that the electrical power system of the Republic of Croatia was compromised, which is absolutely not true, and I think that's how populist you brought it out as if everything was going to collapse tomorrow, and of course it's not like that at all. However, you also said that everything is going towards rising prices. Today, on the Committee on Economy which you are a member, we have just spoken to the ministry gentlemen and it has been found that prices for households, especially for entrepreneurship 2016, are actually falling. Although you weren't on the board, that's probably why you don't have that information. You also say about the production of electricity to allow anyone at any time to produce electricity. Well, that's how it really works for you. And you too if you want to install any form of power generation at home you can even sell electricity at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85509	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85510	Comrade Totgergeli, I understand that you are a member of the ruling coalition and that you defend attitudes, or even this law, so I have made arguments that by 2023, 1160 MW of production will have to come out of the system, that is, the thermopower plant as dirty producers, you have not listed here or explained in the context of this law how you will make up for it. There are no investments, the only hydropower plant made of the Croatian state's draft is just finished, it's only one hydropower plant, so what we're talking about. There are no investments, we are energized, and during that time we are told stories about the free electricity market, how competition should be opened, etc., etc. We've seen an example of a bank, a teleoperator, as it all ends together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85511	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85512	Representatives and MPs. Thank you for the discussion. Just a few words. This law, apart from providing for harmonisation with directives and with European legislation in terms of these violations, has brought in one newspaper that we have introduced, which is about reversible power plants. So our only reversible power plant would work as hard as possible with the maximum capacity to indirectly reduce imports or if there is some kind of import to be in terms of cheaper prices, and when our production is to be in terms of expensive prices. What the esteemed colleague Totgergeli was saying about this possibility that we left for transfer and distribution, we put it in the law exclusively on the basis of public debate and interested public, HUP and HGK where simply the large majority of the subjects still requested that there be an option. So that, among other things, they can define themselves as they are more interested. And as far as citizens are concerned, clearly we said here that it must be so that citizens are not harassed with two accounts but that it is always shown in one account. This is what you mentioned, dear Parliamentarian Lovrinović, about this article. 27th on energy, that stands. Let us not run away from this, and we will soon follow that article. Now, let us have a big job and more than 10 laws in a year, you have to admit that it's not easy to do everything yourself, so in that part we'll do in accordance with the law, and also what you mentioned in terms of solars and everything else, you're back on the subject of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, you claim that the Government has no vision of energy development, there is. And you'll almost see that when the Law on Renewable Energy changes, when adequate regulations and adequate rules are passed, you'll see that we're going in one direction that's not going to be what you're saying, in the direction of any kind of so-called. Lobby, party and all. They'll be in the direction of what you're saying, that's for sure. Already now Croatian citizens can put their solars on their houses in the sense that they produce in the size of their consumption, but I agree with you that there should be some additional incentives for such projects to be profitable to Croatian citizens and be confident that we will bring it very quickly because we are aware of how much potential there is in solars in the Republic of Croatia and it will certainly be at least as far as we are from the Ministry, such proposals will be. Clearly, they must be adopted in a public debate and later legal procedure. So, I thank you all for the comprehensive debate and, until the second reading, we will consider in detail what you discussed and bring here a final proposal in order for it to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85513	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have three replicas. First, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85514	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I'm interested in Agrokor's debt to HEP is very high, which you specifically seem to be making payments. In fact, here we see that everyone has come to order, the Russians, the Americans, I don't know, the friends of the prime minister and the president, the only state firm can't collect their debts which I really don't understand, given that the state is directly involved in solving this problem, so I would like you to respond to the Croatian citizens if there is no charge of these debts, and probably not because, therefore, you're not doing anything, whether these debts will again have to be paid by the final consumers, which means households of Croatian citizens, and I don't think it would really be a good team before you say all the time that the Agrokor affair won't cost a single penny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85515	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85516	This is a debate on the Law on the electricity market and you are clear, as usual, to Agrokor, and as regards the accounts and debts of HEP towards Agrokor, HEP will solve them in the same way as all those who have reported their claims and debts to Agrokor on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85517	Replica number two. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Milatić, it's nice to hear, I'm really glad you admit you're not doing your production and consumption balances. It's human. Here whoever comes, he makes any confession of something he's not, and that's good to hear. So you'll certainly try to make the next time the production and consumption balance for 5 years, for 15 years, to turn on the script when some thermal power plants won't work. So, that's nice to hear, and we as advocates expect it from you because you're not in charge of dealing with someone every day, of course you're operating. You are in charge of strategically considering a vision of the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, and on such investments, we have not heard anything from the projects and please do what needs to be done, present to this Assembly a solution for something like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85519	Thanks, buddy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85520	Dear Parliamentarian, I have only admitted that our two predecessors in the ministries that you have been with them, party friends, have not acted under this Law, and that as soon as we arrive, we will follow the law. And as for this part, I said the energy strategy is in the works and it will be very soon... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85521	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85522	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. On this proposal of the Law we heard and received an email was also an objection from the HGK because we are all interested in being energy independent and having more domestic electricity production and the aim is to enable our craftsmen, entrepreneurs to install in their plants any solar, any other electricity producers, at least at the height of their own consumption. So their objection was to the article. The 10th exemption is made for such customers who are also producers up to the level of their own consumption, and not to make it difficult for them to have it here in the bill, so here, to give your opinion whether you will respect their objection to the article. Ten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85524	That, as far as I know, this law does not prevent it. We have simplified through this Connection Regulation this procedure in terms of using these own capacities, but here, we still have a chance to discuss in detail what came from the HGK and be sure if we can make something more detailed, without being contrary to the directives so as not to get hurt again, that we will do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85525	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85526	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, first reading, P.Z.R. No. 341. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market and secondly, all comments and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 42 abstentions and 2 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85527	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and - Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 23. Law on energy regulation. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities established HERA and found that the Agency is managed by an administrative board of five members, one of which is the President and one of their alternate members. The term of office of the President and members of the Governing Council shall begin with a decision on the appointment by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 23(3) of the Law. The term of office of the President and members of the Governing Council shall cease with a decision on the discharge of the duties adopted by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to the provision of Article 26(1) after the expiry of the period to which the President or member of the Governing Council has been appointed. Members of the Board of Directors, Mr.sc. Lidija Horčušak was appointed by decision of the Croatian Parliament of 13 July 2012 on a term of office of 5 years and at its meeting of 4 May 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of HERA, Mr.sc. Lidija Horchušak is due for the end of the term of office. At the same meeting, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HERA and so on. Nikola Vistica and Mr. Sc. It's a verbana turtle. In accordance with the law, the appointing procedure was initiated by publication of a public invitation to propose a candidate containing conditions for the selection of members of the board of directors, a deadline in which the candidacy and the necessary documentation for the submission of the candidacy were submitted. The collection of bids for presidents and members of the board of directors was conducted by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. 17 applications have been made to a public call, 14 of which were submitted in due time with all the necessary documentation. On 21 and 22 February 2018, the Ministry's commission held talks with the candidates and produced a report on the results achieved. They were proposed by Dr. sc Nikola Vistica, born in 1970, calling him a dipl. ing. Oil mining was acquired at the University of Zagreb's Mining-Geo-Geological-Geological-Off. He's in the same college in 2011. promoted to a doctor of science from the scientific field of technical science branch of oil mining. Its working life begins in 1998 in the City gas station Zagreb as a development engineer and in 2003 after a professional examination, it becomes head of the department of technical preparation of work. It remains in that position until 2006 when it moves to HERA to be the manager of the gas and oil department and then led by the department of gas and oil services. Since 2013 he is the director of the gas and oil sectors in HERA. During his work in HERA, he actively participated in the development of legal and sublegal regulations and other mechanisms necessary for the regulatory regulation of the gas market, oil derivatives and biofuels. It is active in energy working groups in the EU institutions of the energy community. He was chaired by the Energy Community Gas Working Group, a member of the ACER Working Group and the European Regulators' Council. He is a regular member of the Scientific Council for the Oil and Gas Economy and Energy of the HAZU. Dr. Vistica has published a series of scientific and professional works in the field of energy and energy regulation. She is a colleague of the Natural Gas Market at a postgraduate specialist study of the energy sector's economics at the University of Rijeka. Proposed Mr. Sc. Željko Vrban was born in 1969, he graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Osijek where he acquired the title of dipl. ing. electrotechnics. In 2011 at the Faculty of Economics at the University of Zagreb acquired the academic degree of master of science from the scientific field of social science and the scientific branch of the organization and management. The Master Vrban has over 22 years of employment that he spent working in HEP, a distribution system operator. First, he worked as an independent engineer in the Elektroslavonia Directorate in Osijek. Afterwards, he was appointed Head of the Power Plant Virovitica. In 2004, he came to HEP ODS in Zagreb for the position of advisor director. In HEP ODS Zagreb performs the tasks of assistant director, co-ordinator of the service manager's affairs. Since the very beginning of the work, mr. Vrban shows exceptional skills in the preparation and organisation of activities and processes in society and in the implementation of the set goals of society. It also perfects its skills through formal education in which technical knowledge builds on those in the field of economy. As a member, he participated in the work of the Euroelectrica Network Board, an organisation whose role is to promote the development of low-carbon electricity industry and collaborated with the World Bank in producing a Doing Business Report for 2009 to 2017. He is the author of several professional and scientific papers from the field of the role of distribution system operator in the conditions of wider use of new technologies and the role of electricity market power networks and the competitiveness of energy systems. By decision of the President of the Republic of Dr. Franjo Tudjmana mr. Vrban was decorated in 1994 with the Memorial of the Homeland War from 1990 to 1992. We suggest that the Croatian Parliament adopt the same, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85529	Thank you for the opening letter to say so. The president of the Economic Committee doesn't have a chance to open the debate. We have a report on behalf of the HDZ Attorney's Club, my colleague Mira Totgergeli, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85530	Thank you, Vice President. Today during the debate, especially during the first point, the Law on Energy Regulation, when we discussed the HERA a lot, is being imposed, especially by Mr Lovrinović, to create the administrative council of HERA to appoint politics and then HERA can't do anything different, but here she is under the influence of politics. If you read this law well, and if you look at the EU directives, the directive says that members of the Governing Council are elected at 5 to 7 years. We have had in some legal solutions that members of the Governing Council have been elected to 5 years, however, with the latest amendments, so the current law says they are being elected for 7 years, so these changes have been defined as being gradually selected by members of the Governing Council, which means that, in the course of the year, you choose a member of the Governing Council, and so, during a certain time, you come to choose from the various majority of the Croatian Parliaments from the Governing Council of HERA. I also said in that debate on the Energy Regulation Law that it is not easy to create institutions that will be independent of politics in the Republic of Croatia and that this is a long-term path. We had at the beginning of the council, now we have a HERA that becomes independent of the government. Therefore, I think that the responsibility of our parliamentary representatives who have just been and were given to elect members of the Governing Council of HERA should be a little higher when we talk about this body and in public about how this body will gain importance if in such discussions we are in any time in opposition to say that body is not independent because it is elected by the politics, and when we are in power, we will defend that it is independent and chosen by policy, and it is complex by law that, in fact, at some point in time from all the majority who were in the Croatian Parliament, the number of votes that the members of the council will choose. As far as the proposal is concerned, because according to law, the ministry is put to conduct the tender, and the Croatian Parliament votes, of course, that the proposal, which is for Mr. Nikola Vištic and Mr. Željko Vrban, will support the HDZ club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85531	Thank you. We have a simple debate that we don't actually have, so I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85532	Next. a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. 1. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 102 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the decision taken in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 76 for, 3 abstentions and 38 against the decision taken in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85533	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a decision to declare the year 2018 – "The year of Jurj Križanić" is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the basis of Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, colleague Vesna Bedeković, chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, at its 29th session held on 4 May 2018, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of academician Zvonko Kusic, president of HAZU, who was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 14 February 2018 to base the initiative of Prof. Dr. Ivana Golub, otherwise a member of the Academy by letter this year 2018, declared Jurj Križanić a year. In considering this proposal, the Committee also held the opinion of the Ministry of Science and Education of 24 April 2018, which supported the decision to declare this year Jurj Križanić and, otherwise, very briefly on Juraj Križanić, so the person who has taken an important place in the history of not only Croatian peoples but also other Central European and Eastern European peoples, and is believed to further emphasize the importance of his activities and his creation in the 17th century at that time in the context of a series of European cultures and traditions conditioned by the characteristics of the then cultural, historical. Church and political development of context. By the way Juraj Križanić is a Croatian priest. Philosopher, theologian, linguist, political writer, musical theorist and advocate of red and Slavic unity and ideas of economic and political independence as well as views of general work, economics, governmental state, Juraj Križanić is a unique phenomenon within Croatian history during the 17th century and is considered to be significant and that Croatian linguisticism is particularly interesting because of its version of grammar published in Tobolsk in 1665, which is chronically located right behind Kasic's Croatian and Mikalina Italian and is actually other grammars of Croatian language when we were looking at the chronological order. As regards the musical theory where Križanić's work was also noted, he is also the author of several valuable and relevant works from the time he lived and for this reason we believe that it is worth, important and relevant in 2018 to declare Jurj Križanić and therefore the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament supports making such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85535	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? My colleague Maria Jelkovac, president of the Legislative Committee, I see you do not. I'm opening a debate, my first colleague, Damir Mateljan, is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I was surprised by the proposal of the Education and Science Committee that in 2018, Jurj Križanić was declared a year and that she surprised me positively. Namely, Juraj Križanić is one of the slightly forgotten Croatian scientists, philosopher, linguist, politician, theologian, priest who comes from the same already forgotten Croatian region, which is, namely, born in the municipality of Ribnik, it is one small municipality, small by number of people and not by the square of its space from Ozaljski collects. When speaking in a historical context about the Ozalj collection, it is usually connected to Zrinski and Frankopane, respectively, and to the myth of the two unhappy Croatian noble families, but Ozalj is much more than that. Namely, in the late Middle Ages when Croatia was reduced to those remains of the remains of Ozalj was actually the cultural center of what could then be called the Croatian State and Croatia in general. Let's say Katarina Zrinski with her Gartlica for an hour to shorten, Peter Zrinski from the Adriatic Sea Siren, all of these are, these are literary works written in the ikavi version of the Cacai language, that is language, so-called. the language, the ossalic cultural circle of which Belostenec Pavlin also belonged to in the Oslja area and made one of the first Latin-Croatian dictionaries of Gazophilacium. It is this cultural circle but far beyond that that belongs to Juraj Križanić. I am particularly pleased that this proposal came from the idea of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In fact, if I wanted to compare Juraj Križanić to one of our historical celebrities in one sentence, I would say that Juraj Križanić Josip Juraj Strossmayer was the 17th century. At the time Juraj Križanić formed his ideas, when he argued to defend them and when he tried to implement them and his ideas were both heretic and blasphemic. Watch out now, panslavism, the reconciliation of the East and the West, the unification of the Eastern and Western churches. All Slavic language based on this particular language of the Croatian Eastern cultural circle. So these are all ideas that were, at the time of the 17th century, blasphemous. However, I believe that many of you will say that these ideas are equally blasphemous today. However, if we were to blow that historical patin out of part of Jurj Križanić then we would actually discover in context because we have to put Jurj Križanić in the context of time because the history without context is nothing, it is nothing, it is nothing, and if we put him in that historical context, then it is actually a modern idea of a single Europe, so Europe that does not have 2, 3 or I don't know how fast, a Europe that is not divided into the working West and into the non-working or lazy east or south, so it is a unique Europe that I believe supports most of the citizens of this country and the whole EU. For all these reasons, of course, the SDP Club will support this idea of the year 2018 being the year of Jurj Križanić and I personally hope that this high house will accept patronage before the anniversary that will be held right in the municipality where Juraj Križanić was born, so in Ribnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85537	Thank you, fellow Malatana. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Liposjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85538	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal to announce the year 2018 in Jurj Križanić. The proposal was submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament, as we could already hear from Academyman Zvonko Kusic, president of the HAZU. The Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament also supports this proposal as well as the Ministry of Science and Education. But what we really know about Jurj Križanić. In Croatia, we do relatively little in character and work and the general public is relatively unknown or less known than many European studies where they study it more seriously. Especially today, this is interesting in light of the review of the current EU-Russia relations that Juraj Krizanic was engaged in over 350 years ago. Juraj Križanić was born between 1617 and 1619 in the noble Kurija Obrh near Ozlja, or more specifically at Ribnik and finished his high school in Zagreb, worship and doctorate in Rome. From 1642 to 1646 he was a priest in Nedelisce and Varazdin and then travelled to Moscow, Constantinople and Rome. In his political action, Križanic believed that the religious divide for the peoples in these areas was meaningless and harmful because these religious conflicts were aimed at destroying and destroying each other. He also advocated social justice, equality of women, and did not hesitate to turn to nobility through various criticisms. He greatly appreciated the work and considered it the only legitimate source of acquisition. Croatian language is particularly interesting because of its grammar, grammatical statement about.. the language published in 1665. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a completely lonely literary language attempt, in fact, a grammar that refers to the language of the zoleic circle, the tridialectal jackal-kaykawish-stachkazag style, which was cherished in the 17th century by writers and lexicographers on the property of Zrinski and Frankopan based in Ozla. And from here on out, we're actually called the Ozali literary language circle. Križanić described the specifics of that language in his grammar. The time that grammar is located behind Kasic's Croatian and Mikalina Italian and in fact it makes up another grammar of Croatian language. As music writer Križanić is less famous but he left several papers in the field. In 1656, in Rome, his 20-thesis music paper was published in a kind of literary ad published in 1658 by Križanić cited some more of his music works, discussion and two inventions, i.e. musical aids and a device that should facilitate recording music and composing. The music works of Križanić have been preserved in chapter.../The speaker is not understood. from the unpublished work of Politika, which consists of a work in which it deals with themes from music history and works where it solves problems of church and world music and instrumental practice. And, of course, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal to be announced in 2018, the year of Jurj Križanić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85539	Thank you. That's why we're closing the debate because there are no individual applications, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I now give a break up to 15 hours when we continue with the item on the agenda Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2017. Thank you very much. It's 12.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85540	Proposal for a Decision declaring 2018 Jurj Križanić. The applicant is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision to be declared in 2018 by Jurj Križanić. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 120 for, 2 abstentions made by the decision on the declaration in 2018 of Jurj Križanić as proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85541	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The applicant shall be the Advocate for Gender Equality under Article. 22. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality. The government delivered an opinion. I'm calling on the attorney general to give us an additional explanation for the report. Dear Mrs. Vishna Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. I'm going to be quiet today because my throat hurts, I'm a virulent person, but I'm going to say everything I have to say about the report on the work of the Attorney General's Office for the past year. So this report is part of our annual work, indicating certain trends in gender-based discrimination, motherhood, family, sexual orientation, gender identity. The areas of work are employment, social security, family, family violence, education, political participation and the media. Last year we worked on more than 2685 cases. What we were most concerned about was discrimination, sexual discrimination, which accounts for more than 86%, and the injured victims were mostly women, almost 67%. The most common complaints refer to the field of employment, social security, the percentage is increasing year by year. 52% is the share of such complaints. Compared to the previous period, more than 10% points. As an institution, we filed one criminal charges for suspicion of a criminal offence, we reported to the competent state attorney's office, we filed one criminal charges for one offence, we asked for an amendment to 15 laws, regulations, using the powers of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination we were... Two court proceedings and we've been doing two peace cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We conducted a major independent survey aimed at showing the Croatian Parliament and the general public about the phenomenon of gender discrimination on the basis of the labour market and in the family. We have made nine analyses to monitor the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, published three publications, two in the field of labour, working conditions and one in the field of social security. For the purpose of the European project, we made a documentary, signed two new agreements on cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and with the Ministry of Demography, family, social policy and youth related to education. We have established an independent monitoring body for the collection and analysis of data based on femicides, so the killings of women and reporting on it. We totalled 302 recommendations, 229 warnings, 204 proposals. Compared to 2016, the percentage of those state institutions and bodies from the local community has increased, which respect our warnings at 91%. 2017 was very fruitful for us because we implemented two European projects. One of them ends, and one of them was in the middle of a half-year. We are proud of the fact that we have received three European projects in 4 years, pulled about a million and 200 thousand euros in European funds, and given the fact that we are a relatively small office of 10 employees. Statistics suggest that for many years we have faced the highest number of complaints of women for discriminatory treatment, which makes up one constant of 2/3 of all complaints. Because of this, we are most often guided by the problems and obstacles faced by women today in society and are actually a social group that is faced with discrimination on the basis of sex, motherhood, family status, whether in the public, social or private sphere. The complaints from women as the most common of us, and they don't surprise us because they make up most of the unemployed, 57% of the women. Furthermore, they are less employed compared to men of all age groups and all levels of education. The majority in the underpaid sectors, mostly as victims of sexual harassment at work, are under-represented in high positions of business decision-making, are found on a glass ceiling. We still have 15% of the women in the board today and 20% of the boards of directors. They don't have equal opportunities to advance, they have lower wages. National statistics say that the pay gap 11.3%, if individual statistics are viewed in the private sector and in the public sector, then we see that in the public sector more than 16% of pay gaps. In the field of labour and employment, the main obstacles facing women today is definitely motherhood and life. For the first time, what we have read on the basis of statistics from the Employment Service is that the highest percentage of unemployed women suddenly came at an elderly woman over 50 to 59 years old, so far they have been women in a fertilized period from 25 to 29 years old, but unfortunately women in those years of life seem to have left Croatia together with their families looking for a better family and working environment. Of course, the pension gap is directly linked to the existing pay gap and thus the unfavourable position of women and the increased risk of their poverty continues after leaving the labour market. In solving individual cases of discriminatory practice in the field of labour markets by employers, I must say that on several occasions we have had extremely good cooperation with labour inspection and other inspections showing priority and urgency in such procedures. An unfavourable demographic process has continued for several decades. According to the statistics we received in 2017, at least children have been born in the last 100 years, we suggest that due to long-term low fertility and increasing population migration in reproductive age, the population of Croatia has been reduced, the depopulation process has been affected by many regional and local spatial units. We have pointed to several trends that reflect labour market inequality, at the same time contribute to an unfavourable demographic context, we have proposed several recommendations, and we point out the need to introduce measures that will encourage fathers to make maximum use of maternity and parental leave, which will facilitate the reintegration of women into the labour market. We also sought and recommended that additional efforts and resources be made to expand the institutional network of support for public services to parents regarding the care and care of children, as well as older people. I will note that in the last five years, a stagnation of father involvement in the use of maternity and parental leave has been observed, not exceeding a percentage of 4.5%, and Croatia is among the EU member states exactly the country in which men, or fathers least use maternity and parental support. In the field of family relations and parental care, about 61% of our fathers complain about the dissatisfaction with the decision on parental care of the competent authorities, these are centres for social care and courts, while mothers point to the insatiability of professionals related to the domestic violence they had previously been exposed to in the family or partner community. With regard to cases of domestic violence, women are mostly victims of complaints against citizens regarding non-recognition of certain forms of violence, double detention, violation of safeguards, lack of understanding of the dynamics of domestic violence by competent institutions, an increasing number of victims who give up their application and testify have been observed. Trend decreases in the number of persons reported give a defacto picture of this problem as there is an increase in the number of unreported cases, i.e. victims of violence, while at the same time growing cases of criminal nature of violence against women, including the most severe crimes. What we often point to is a particularly mild penalty for the courts to impose only 7% of unconditional prison sentences, the reason for this trend is actually the mistrust of victims in the work of institutions, primarily the judiciary, weak uncoordinated support for victims, the lack of systematic serious, preventive and rehabilitation activities aimed at perpetrators of violence. In recent years, and the relationship between the perpetrator and the perpetrator of crimes of domestic violence, and here I speak statistics 2015, 2016, is identical, 77% of male perpetrators, 23 perpetrators for the crime of domestic violence. When we talk about criminal acts, then the ratio is 92% of men and 8% of women. Of course, we are also witnessing a brutalisation trend with a fatal outcome, in 2017 15 women were killed by close men, and what we always indicate is that despite the police saying a number of safeguards when it comes to violence against women, the judicial system only adopts 17% of the proposed measures. With family violence, partner violence, so we are talking about an emotional relationship between two people who do not have a residence at the same time, such victims still do not have adequate legal protection and therefore we need to look for better legislative solutions that we have also proposed and talked about. Regarding the rights of gender and gender minorities, the Life Partnership Act continued to be successfully implemented in practice. Last year, we took steps to encourage judicial authorities to encourage homophobic hate speech based on sexual orientation, as well as to encourage violence motivated by hatred against homosexuals to be qualified as a criminal offence, and not to push into the sphere of criminal acts, we point to a judicial system to improve data collection and processing systems as well as to improve the education system of professionals. By acting on complaints from citizens and citizens who are discriminated against on the basis of their birth identity, we have established cooperation with the Ministry of Health, we have pointed out the possibility of taking further measures to make medical services available, and we have acted in cases of issuing their certificates, a diploma after gender change. Public action, as well as civil complaints, brought particular attention to the problem of particularly sensitive social groups that are at risk of multiple discrimination. It is about women in rural areas, women with disabilities, members of national minorities, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, victims of human trafficking, especially women and children. In the area of education, we also acted on complaints from citizens and citizens. Their complaints related to certain controversial content in school textbooks and other teaching materials, positive developments have been recorded in terms of improving the integration of civil education and education in primary and secondary schools and introducing content related to gender equality principles through this inter-species topic. On the other hand, examples of gender stereotypes in educational materials continue to appear, which is why we have sent three of the biggest publishing houses of school textbooks in Croatia a letter to respect the principle of equality in the new generation of textbooks for primary and secondary schools. We have followed the media and are still witnessing sexism, sexist statements, sexisms in advertising campaigns, public space using sensationalism in reporting violence against women, etc. In the media analysis, the most important topic for the second year in a row was violence against women and domestic violence almost 40%, related to political participation, we appeared before the local elections and after local elections where we analysed the state of representation of men and women. I must say that unfortunately, the couple-nepar system on the candidate lists was generally not applied, the quota was not respected on 14% of the candidate lists, and the State's Attorney's Office informed us that the delivery and processing of statistics on which political parties did not respect the quotas of representation 40% on their election lists. We also made complaints about the representation of women in sports. Finally, I can say that this work report gives a total of around 75 case descriptions, 123 recommendations to the Government and the Croatian Parliament, which we hope will be discussed in the current year, all in the common goal of improving the constitutional principle of equality between men and women. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85543	I thank the honored Mrs. Vishni Ljubičić. We have a few replicas. The first replica of Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85544	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor's Attorney General. In your presentation, you mentioned one topic that I think is very important, which is the use of maternity leave by the fathers because you said that Croatia is at the very bottom of the EU countries, which is one piece of information that points to something that needs to be changed, but on the other hand, the fact that these situations do not grow in Croatia but is happening in Croatia every year less and less. So it would be for you to expect it to go up in years, and not in Croatia. We have some examples of the country of Scandinavia, I would like to say one example of Sweden where the law even defines that maternity leave in a certain number of months must be used by fathers for simple reasons to participate in child rearing. And one of the recommendations that is that in that sense should go to the amendments to the legislation with us. So I'm curious about your attitude, and was that what it was about when the legislation changed?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85545	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Before answering, I welcome students and students of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and their professors and professors at the gallery. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Answer, Honorable Advocate Višnja Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85546	Honorable MPs. Of course it is in the focus of our work because it is also related to barriers to the labour market today related to motherhood, and as I said if the fathers do not actively engage today, women will still remain out of the labour market because they will not have the possibility to choose a flexible return to the labour market precisely because of the achievement of their motherhood. We are also Governments, and through public debates that we have pointed to the need to prescribe quotas and incentive measures that would enable and involve fathers to use their father's maternity leave or parental leave. That's why I'm thanking you for the same thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85547	I would like to thank the esteemed attorney for her reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85548	Thank you, Vice President. In this report, therefore, you specifically referred to the fact that domestic violence, that is, violence against women, and you point out the real numbers that are trending, so almost the same in comparison with previous years, and they refer to a greater number of violence against women. Since some tones have been heard lately, or some remarks that say that it is not, I would ask you for one clarification, and it seems to me that we are relativating or attempting to relativize the violence itself and the reduction that will certainly harm, and thus here, after ratification, I am afraid that some of the trends that are trying to harm it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85549	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. The answer, Mrs. Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85550	Your Honor, I thank you very much for this question. About the relativization of violence against women and the relationship of perpetrators, 77% of men and 23% of women. Lately, there's been a public appeal by the Attorney General's institution and gender equality and seeking my resignation. It is precisely because of the manipulation of the above-mentioned statistics and the involvement of the institution and the Ombudsman with safe houses that exist only for women, and they do not exist for men, because here, some citizens believe that 23% of violent women deserve the fact that shelters are opened for men. So the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality neither establishes safe houses nor for men, nor for women, nor donates them, nor financially supports them. The next thing is that those who don't understand or approach facts with a statistical ratio of 77 to 23 I'm not finished. I'm sorry. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] They show a lack of understanding of the fact that in these 23% of women statistics are not classified exclusively by men, they were perpetrators in families and women mothers and daughters, sons and partners. [[Intruder Brkić: Yes, you've run out of time, Madam Attorney General.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85551	Thank you very much. Please stick to limited time, and you can say anything, at any time you can contact as a reporter of the report. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85552	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about gender equality, and I'm glad there are a lot more women in the assembly at this point than men, but the fact that we're the law on elections in 2016 was the obligation to be 40% of the other sex, women, and those who brought in, neither the HDZ nor the SDP respected. So in Croatia gender equality is mentioned solely for the sake of populism, impressions and these are populist laws that are not respected, although I believe that on the lists should be the best quality, not that women just fill in the lists from the bottom at the bottom of the clear to say here we have a quota, that's the first. Demographic measures, when it comes to demographic measures, when it comes to women's health problems, are not the same services throughout the territory. Yes, come, we mention the movement of the remains, and we'll tell you in MOST and the students I welcome, come and see the measures that are feasible and what are the solutions. And we offer them both to the government and to you to look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85553	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj for the replica. The answer to Mrs. Ljubicic's esteemed attorney, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85554	I thank you for recognising the political quotas and the important participation of women today in political participation, not only in political but also in economics. What I always point out is that today is important, not only de jure, but also defacto to achieve what we stand for, which requires political will and political consensus. As long as we think women's participation is a woman's question, not a common social, economic and political issue, we'll have such a devastating statistic by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85555	I would like to thank Mrs. Ljubicic's esteemed attorney for her reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I call on the government's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Ms Margaret Mađeric, to give us an explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85556	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. The Croatian Parliament sent a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give an opinion on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2017 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Advocates for Gender Equality Act of 30 March 2018. This report shall show the activities and work of the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality during 2017, and shall include all areas related to employment and work, family, gender minorities, the risks of multiple discrimination and particularly sensitive social groups, the area of education, the field of media, gender equality in the field of political participation, national gender equality policy activities, women and sport, reproductive health, women seeking international protection, the implementation of the Security Council resolution on women, peace and security and related resolutions, the Advocate's initiatives in the field of law and regulations, the analysis of the application of the principle, gender equality in the field of access and the provision of goods, i.e. the provision of services, cooperation at national and international level, and recommendations of the Advocate. The competent authorities have provided indications of the report in question based on the evidence of the competent authorities which have given reasons concerning certain alleged reports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up its opinion on the material obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85557	I would like to thank the honorary secretary of state, Mrs. Majaric. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.45 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85559	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, esteemed attorney. Here you can not notice one fact when you should talk about anti-discrimination and fighting for equality and fighting for oppressed and vulnerable groups in society, then everyone is full of the mouth of that, and when one of these topics is in the assembly, then they are almost always one and the same MPs. And as one philosopher said, I don't like humanity that only involves when a person who has an interest in including it. This report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality shows that gender equality in its definition is not achieved in society, but that is by no means Croatian specificity because in general, utopia is expected to achieve equality and equality in the world in general. But what is not utopia and what can be expected is a higher degree. A higher level of equality and equality and that is what we seek, and that is what we hope for. In that sense, this report, which is also quite extensively extensively, I think that the five-centimeter thick from this report, shows how much of the problem we have, is, in fact, giving, in addition to everything that has been done over the past period, concrete measures on the recommendation and suggestions of the Advocate's Office within its jurisdiction, and we see from what the Office of Advocates and Mrs Višnja Ljubicic has personally taken over the past time on this subject. We heard that the largest number of complaints referred to the field of labour and employment and social security, and I'm not surprised at it at all. It is difficult to be unemployed, and it is equally difficult to be employed, and to suffer some form of discrimination against mobbing or even humiliation and neglect or abuse, which is even worse. And we can say from this report and in general what's clear seems to be that employed women actually draw a thicker end. If they have children, they often have to do so in a Colloquism between all the obligations they have at work and at home. Of course, these children need their mother’s time and father’s time clearly and implies that children receive it. I often say it's better, it's my personal experience, spend three, four hours quality with children than being together all day and everyone in your movie. And I wouldn't agree with those critics who call mothers who work women who contaminate motherhood. Such women are often more difficult, rarely seen from the lawyer’s report they suffer and at the workplace if they have to go to child care or to another or to the third maternity care center. And what we're looking at, and it's not specific to Croatia, but it's also European, and I can tell the world that today is the current so-called. a virtual war on social networks between those who criticize the working moms. And it can't be said that part of these arguments is not justified or part of these arguments really stands and those who feel that self-employed mothers can provide an example of how to deal with problems and survival in this cruel capitalist world. And the truth is always halfway between those two extremes. And what's a fact, we all know that raising children and we see it from that report that actually most of the complaints refer to the field of employment is a wonderful and demanding gift. Unfortunately, however, not everyone is able to do so for a variety of reasons, and they should not be exposed to criticism or defamation, and as no group in society should be. And today, unfortunately, it is also often covered by this report, often experiencing in our society that those who need to be supported actually get ridicule. And now what's important to say from this pay phone, a debate about eating a good parent if he's good at business and generally discussing such criteria, the evaluations should stop. Motherhood should not be an obstacle to employment, not at all, but also a woman who for any reason does not have children should not be regarded as incomplete. According to one survey, nearly 50% of women are not able to continue to develop their careers because of family obligations, but women still sort of balance it out. The bigger problem, however, is the lack of understanding of the business environment, which loses the most precisely highly educated women, but also society as a whole. Those societies that recognized these problems have made progress before. And that is why measures are important to adapt working conditions to women who are mothers, but at the same time they work and thus contribute to better conditions for this society to have a larger number of mothers. I would now say so much about the employment area to which most of this report is covered by the Ombudsman's gender equality report. And as far as other areas are concerned, I am clearly not going to list all of them now, but it should be pointed out that the Advocate's Office has made concrete recommendations to the institutions and that their implementation contributes to less discrimination in the system. As far as discrimination in society is concerned, it is something that cannot be fully regulated by either the report or the law, and cannot therefore be fully corrected through laws or recommendations, however comprehensive they are. For example, domestic violence. I always say that a great deal of responsibility and that is the fact, standing on these individuals, is the root of course and in education and it cannot be prevented through any institution. It can be partially, though, but it can't be completely. And that is why it is necessary to keep emphasising, even from here on these speakers, including the assemblies of this honorable institution, that hate speech and violence are not acceptable patterns of conduct, and other than emphasis should be shown by example. It is often said not to do anything is more violent than when violence seems. If the person is able to do something to prevent it. In addition to women, it would be unfair not to mention that the office was addressed by men, and here the most complaints were addressed to the dissatisfaction with the decision on parental care of the competent authorities. As many as 61% of the fathers complained about this problem. And this also points to the need to re-examine a valid stereotype that mother is always a better choice. Sometimes it's obvious that it goes to the heart to say so, to the harm of fathers who are caring and self-sacrifice. So, generally stereotypes are not good, and each case should be observed individually. As far as you're concerned, a colleague earlier said he was glad to see a lot of women in the assembly here. Unfortunately, it's just right now based on this topic. Otherwise, this is devastating to say that Croatia is 97th in the number of women in the Assembly and in this sense 19% of women in the Assembly share the place on that poor scale with Saudi Arabia, which is unfortunate because in Saudi Arabia, and we know well, women's rights are not at God's level, even a few months ago the right to drive a car on their own, etc. So we didn't exactly show up with the number of MPs in Parliament because 19.2% in this 9th meeting. There have been better vocations. The 6th meeting, which was held from 2007 to 2011, contained 39 MPs, in the 5th meeting, which was held from 2003 to 2007. Which doesn't have to, so gender and gender don't have to have to do with the quality of a person, so it doesn't have to be misunderstood, but here's the statistics saying that this is a really low percentage of women in the Parliament, which doesn't mean that the number of women would increase the quality of the debate, but these are facts. The Law on Gender Equality says the necessary measures will be implemented when the representation of one sex is felt unbalanced in political and public life. That's that article 12. And when is that? Well, that's right now. So that's when the representation of one sex, here in a particular case of female in political and public decision-making bodies is below 40%, and at present it's 19.2%. But here, for comfort, in the government is better. There's 28.6%, i.e. Six ministers. Not to go any further, the report is very comprehensive, it covered all the problems in quality. It made suggestions and recommendations. It is hoped that a total of 302 recommendations, 229 warnings and 214 proposals by the Ombudsman for gender equality will be applied positively and will affect improvement in terms of anti-discrimination and better equality in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85560	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85561	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected lawyers for gender equality, State Secretary with associates. In front of us is the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2017. When it comes to such reports, it is necessary to look into the next context. See what was established in 2017, which is the difference compared to previous years and what are the recommendations for amending the legislation and for the changes to be followed. And in the context of this, it is an extremely high-quality report that is well done, even a summary is relative to very concisely made and that points to all the problems. So it shows what these changes are in society and clearly defined recommendations that should be done further. From this Report, we can re-draw a series of things that we are talking about in public life and that we define and somehow need to look at recommendations and see if any of these recommendations are really incorporated into the legislation and if we will see if the report we have for 2018 in 2019 has been made because it is the main purpose of both these reports and the work of the attorney and everything else. A large part of her report by the Ombudsman is talking about the problem of demographics in Croatia. The problem of demographicism in Croatia is difficult to talk about any topic, not to mention, not to mention clear facts. So the clear facts suggest that from year to year the number of children born in the Republic of Croatia is less than the number of deaths. From year to year, we have the opportunity to see this huge wave of emigration that didn't go either yesterday or the day before, which took place long ago, with Croatia's entry into the EU, the number increased. He's grown up from a few things. One of the things why it has grown is because indeed young people or young families have decided to try out in the EU area and they are welcome everywhere. Why? In their education, the state in their budget gave them nothing. In particular, so whatever state we're going to mention. Now I had the opportunity to read from the Prime Minister of Great Britain, who said she would open the labour market for the people of Croatia because they came a quality and well-educated fit, that they would give them a good job and that they would be given the possibility of housing absolutely for an acceptable reason because they get all this. Now we come to that situation that is in Europe, which you see in the Republic of Croatia. When you look at the percentage of unemployment, then the percentage of unemployment when it comes to men fell from 13.6 to 12.3%, when it comes to women from 12.8 to 10.6. So these are some sort of trends that they are. I'd like to get through this exposure actually kind of refer to three things. One thing is involving women in the labour market. The other thing is women in politics. It's hard to speak in this assembly as a woman not to mention it, and the third is actually one of the hard-working birth divisions of what's business in the family and what's to be done. When it comes to involving women in the labour market. We're aware that it's really much harder to do, so if you have two candidates and you need to hire, one is a woman, the other is a man, in the private sector, and I'd say in the public administration more often decides to hire a man. When you look at life, you'll be left with us, all men go and these fellow MPs, and they'll be single women. When you look at life, so girls or girls are better students in elementary schools, better students are in high schools, better at college, better at writing and we give scripts and the rest and then we start in real life and girls or young women go slowly, slowly, slowly, and boys go like this. And that's a fact. And that's what we meet in everyday life. I've had one chance and it's always convenient to see what we've been through. I had one chance where I was, where we hired a lot of people, and at one point when the interview was over, I sat there because I was in an office in a management post and I asked a woman who was across from me, who was young, do you have a child? And now she, so I asked it pretty strictly not because I wanted to be strict because I was in a hurry, so did you have a kid? And she shyly says I do. And I say, you plan on having more kids? She says so, so I don't know. I'm saying, just so you understand, I'm asking you because it's an advantage, not a flaw. It's your advantage to have a child, the advantage is that you want more. So these are rare cases that we treat ourselves like this and that's reality. It is very important that the lawyer's recommendations are listed through 7 measures at one point and said. The inclusion of women in the labour market through requalification possibilities, through a series of tax reliefs. Ask any employer, so women and when they work are very responsible, as we have our whole lives. That's where I have to go... Women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we get homework, we do it neatly. When we make arrangements for a meeting, we make it very simple. But that's right, it's your Venus women, the Mars men. Then it's to be a gender-balanced structure, to have support and scholarships, transparency of elections for leadership. Why is it cold in our meeting room? Because the main thing of our colleagues, so they're colleagues, they're in suits, and to be a little higher temperature, they'd actually be in sweat. So we, who come to the meeting room of bare feet, take socks because we wear socks because we're cold, we have that sweater because we have to have long sleeves. That's an excellent example for you. I understand that our colleagues are really hot, if the air conditioning doesn't work, they're in long-sleeve suits, I think. Then we adapt to it, we take stockings, we have spare socks, so we take them off, we put them on or I don't know what they're not. Each of us still has some kind of jacket or some kind of you know we're not cold. That's the way it is in life. That's what we do when we do it. Depreciation of pay gaps. In 2015, the gross salary of women was 7471 kuna for the same job, and men's 8422 kuna. When we talk from this pay phone, we don't have that feeling and we have to say that because that's not the difference with us in our cases. But in real life, that's the difference. The countless times we've had the chance to hear, to see that when a pregnant woman decided to start a family from young women, to increase the number of children, to hide it, to lose her job, that when she came back there was no work. That should, if we want to have demographics, I started demographics, then that's what we should do, it's a sanction serious for an employer who acts like that. Because you must have certain security. And then you have something that I asked the esteemed attorney, which is experience, so we always refer to those who are very good. I always kind of look at these Scandinavian countries even though I always have one. Scandinavian countries are from another story, from another tradition, from another value system, from another family system, from another history, so there may be some things that are simpler than we are. At our place, here I am before I go, I got something like what you get, says, what are women with two last names? They're the women they want to have both their own and their own. So it's something that's common with us. In Scandinavian countries, it is not unusual to actually have a wife's last name or to give some other combination of last names, these are our exceptions, and this is the world in which we live and the world in which we should fight and the world that we need to change. So women in the business world need to change these glass ceilings and become conscious. My message is always to young women, there are no obstacles, you have to work a little more, you have to be a little more persistent, you have to do a little bit more, but you can. In politics, what the colleague said, indeed this assembly of Parliament has a relatively small number of women. And now that you're looking at what's real and what's when, we're satisfying the shape. We satisfy the form in a way that we have 40% of women on the list and the form is satisfied. When you look at how complex these lists are, they're always in that lower part of the list, so they can possibly come in as substitutes or something else. Let's just say, I've been in and out of the eighth place twice, even though it wasn't my case because I was a woman, it was something else. But they are in some other part and the form is satisfied, and the content is not satisfied. And that's what we see and that's what we have to change, what we have to fight. I have this committee that in our club it's the men who say they're under-represented, but regardless of all of it together, we should set an example and be encouraged. And I come up with that third topic that I wanted to talk about, which is very, very prominent and there are a number of studies and analyses that have been done in Croatia as well, they have been done at EU level. It is a gender division of family responsibilities, household affairs and professional life, and that is, in relation to men and women. Like, I've been in some kind of company recently, and at one point I said to her very well that I have a weekend then I can't tell, bake cookies, cook these, and one woman says, "You cook?" I look at it, of course I cook. I've been cooking my whole life, I think. Ever since I learned to cook, I've been cooking. Kids, everything, my husband, I cook. Family lunch is a Sunday's sacred day. It's all... He says I thought you weren't cooking. I'm saying, why did you think I didn't cook? Looks like you're in politics. I say, wait. Let's get along. Just because someone deals with politics or anything doesn't mean they have children of their own, they have a family of their own, they have everything else and a woman is like all the other women. He's just doing this job called politics. Now, these are your stereotypes. When we put people in individual homes ourselves, and we figure out who they should be in advance. So no matter what work a woman does and no matter what work a man does, she does not need to love her family less, or love her less, or love her children, or care about children. Times only change and children need us differently at a time when they are small and at a time when both mothers and fathers need them. They need each other as well. That's why I think what the Scandinavian countries have decided, where they first rule by law that necessarily men or fathers need part of the maternity care is something that turned out to be good, will be seen what it is and will be seen whether it is applicable to us. We see a number of things from this report by the attorney general for gender equality. We see things that have changed in society, we see things that have changed with us. In our time, therefore, the age of socialism gave equal work to both women and men, which was nowhere else. However, the world’s changing influence has an impact on us. What should be, the step should be really in the direction that this gap between salaries is reduced to the least possible measure, to allow maximum involvement of women in the labour market and to stereotype that someone can only be a housewife, or someone can just work. So everyone needs to be able to do everything because I'm going to end up with demographics. We can only step forward when we make life easier and easier for all our citizens and citizens, but when we become a country that is interesting and attractive for everyone else. There is work and enabling and that labour market, reduction, a series of incentives are extremely important. I hope that at least one of these 7 recommendations that I specifically referred to will at least one of them be included in the laws this year, and perhaps the result and see what it means and what the changes that we will have in society, so perhaps in the lawyer's report in 2019, we will say this is no longer a recommendation, it is a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85562	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85563	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable attorneys, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I'd be happy if there were more men today on, who were following this topic, which at least if they didn't participate then at least listen, but this is how it is. In fact, when I heard that this topic today was unplanned on the agenda, at first I thought why now so suddenly, why now, I mean, it surprised me. I was so surprised, maybe even angry. But then I thought about it. In fact, it was better to find this topic today than to say that it happened that this topic was talked about when the football championship started in, that the world football championship, don't let God in that case wouldn't probably be followed by anyone. So, the report content, complete and therefore, points to an increased number of items. So 2685 of which 1076 complaints about discrimination, of which 1018 are new cases. Of these new cases, 426 cases were justified and were related to a violation of the principle of gender equality or discrimination based on sex, and 97.9% of cases of direct discrimination. 79% of applications came from women and 20.4% from men. The largest share of complaints therefore, in 30% of cases, concerns social care, pension and health insurance. 22.3% on labour rights, about 18% on management, 8.5% on public information and the media and on the judiciary 6.1%. In this report for 2017, the Ombudsman for gender equality reminded us of bad trends in the processing of violence against women and the processing of domestic violence resulting in a growing number of cases of domestic violence, while at the same time increasing the number of crimes against women in the family, and the number of murders of women. Thus, a total of 11506 people were reported for the offense of violence last year, which is clear, mostly 77% of men, which clearly points to the fact that domestic violence is birth conditioned, mainly towards women. Of the total number of violent offenders reported, 806 people or 7% were sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. 7% were sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. The others, therefore, 63% were sentenced to fines or suspended prison sentences, and 30% were released or suspended. Of the total number of registered perpetrators of domestic violence, 2087 were previously recorded as perpetrators of the same offence, representing a high 24% relapser. The D.A. has also warned of the effectiveness of the mistreatment of violence against women and domestic violence. So, the largest number of complaints of women on discriminatory treatment in this particular segment. Furthermore, 52% of the people concerned, when it comes to discrimination, refer to the field of labour, employment and social security, and most often complain about women, which is not surprising, given that in most cases they are unemployed. Therefore, they form that category of unemployed women and are among the victims of sexual harassment at work, and are sub-represented in high positions of business decision-making and do not have equal opportunities for advancement and have lower wages. As regards demographics, I consider it a serious suggestion to introduce measures to encourage fathers to make maximum use of maternity leave, which will therefore make it easier for women to re-enter the labour market or work place. I would say a few sentences about acts of sexual violence which are therefore, acts of sexual violence against some analyses are actually least reported and is precisely in this area that gray number and highest. It is believed that 10-15 unreported acts of sexual delicacy are coming to one reported rape. An analysis of the convictions of rape crimes just indicates that there are stereotypes and prejudices that are extremely pronounced in these crimes. So there are cases where the defendant was released because he couldn't know that the woman didn't want sexual intercourse because she was in pajamas, of course she was. Or when the defendant was released because his ex-wife stopped resisting after the injuries were inflicted on her, she later agreed. Or when the defendant was released because he interpreted the knife by the bedside the court not as a force, but as a masculine initiative that emphasizes manhood. Or an examination of the victim's private life, when the victim was considered unworthy, among other things, because she had previously stopped schooling or was questioned why she didn't report it immediately, etc. According to criminal-legal experts, rape crimes are very often sanctioned because of lower penalties and simpler proceedings as a criminal act of sexual conduct without consent and are therefore punishable for a sentence of less than 5 years. In Croatia, in the last 10 years, great efforts have been made to combat inequality and to make women more involved in the labour market. In fact, through the work he wants to point out the segregation of jobs, given that gender is always an all-consuming, traditional view of female labour and the perception of society, which is actually what a woman should do. And regardless of the positive shifts in the labour market, there is still a problem of female employment and progress. Women in the Republic of Croatia are discriminated against and find themselves in a more unfavourable position in the field of work than men, especially in employment, promotion, employment situations resulting from life-altering changes involving pregnancy and motherhood. Women are in a more unfavourable position when they look for jobs that are stuck in the so-called ". middle management, women employed in tourism, and women in politics. I'll say something about women in rural areas. They still face a number of obstacles, their potential is still underrecognizable, and they need support from all levels of government, so we have, and since this is a very important issue, this problem is also recognized at European Parliament level, which has received a proposal for a resolution on women and their role in rural areas. There is also an international day for women from the village, which marks 14.10 every year just to discuss these issues and this problem for women in rural areas. Currently, women in rural areas represent a quarter of the world population and their roles are crucial in maintaining and improving rural resources for life and strengthening rural communities, with few exceptions to all birth and development indicators for which data are available. Women in rural areas are at a global level, in a worse position than men in rural areas, as well as women and men in cities, and women in rural areas, in disproportionately, are more exposed to poverty and exclusion. It is also more likely that women in rural areas at all levels will be excluded from the leading positions and the decision-making positions. And they, of course, are disproportionately affected by birth and unfounded violence, and by lack of access to justice and effective legal means. Obviously, the importance of empowering women in rural areas and their self-determination and position in decision-making and governance must not be ignored. So, as one all-present, this patriarchal social pattern, i.e., a staunch attitude and prejudice of society versus women who are passed down from their knees to their knees. Otherwise, I will say one more thing about women, members of national minorities, who feel multiple discrimination, both gender and discrimination over their national and religious background. Women, members of national minorities, face prejudices that they belong in their home and have nothing to do on local committees, we council or elsewhere where political and other decisions are made, important for improving the quality of life in their environments. They have a serious problem, a speech, or dialect, because they fear that they will not be corrected, ridiculed, because they do not speak Croatian well. All this disproves women to actively engage in the social political life of the minority community, especially political participation in their local or regional self-government. There is also a concern among women that the so-called team. More serious issues in their local community should be addressed by someone else, and of course, those others are usually men. In fact, these views only prolong the problem of insufficient participation of women members of national minorities. And just for last, I want to say, since I am more than once here characterized as someone who doesn't speak Croatian well enough. I often use the dictionary of Croatian, lexiographic and school books and I have done so today and there is one definition of a woman, which says that a woman is a human being, by sex, the opposite of a man, who can give birth to children and take over the main care for raising and rearing children. The SDSS representative club will support the prosecutor's report on gender equality, viewing it as extremely large, comprehensive and high-quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85564	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85565	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs. I hope that the defence attorney's report for 2017 will be accepted and the SDP Representatives' Club will vote on its acceptance. I still remember the pictures of the lawyer's report's vote two years ago, when he was a little bit more restrained than I'd hoped he'd be at the vote on this report. So the report is comprehensive, it has touched the most important parts of the problem that we are facing in this matter and it has offered some proposals and solutions that we consider to be good, and we also consider it to be continuity, the work of the attorney for gender equality. However, about two months ago, one of the key political topics in Croatia was precisely the one concerning violence against women and domestic violence, it was the one concerning ratification of the Istanbul Convention. In this report, it is mentioned as a special chapter, the involvement of the Ombudsman in the draft law working group and multiple calls for the adoption of the law. But unfortunately, this topic has actually caused some controversy in the society that has been spared by many countries, which we thought, in some state, the rights of individuals, the freedom of individuals, to stand on these tables are somewhat worse than we are. So as pleased as we are and accept the counsel's reports, there are still those in society who consider a woman less valuable and encourage stereotypes who would like to get rid of our society as soon as possible. In addition to the topic of domestic violence, the report also includes a relationship with gender and gender minorities, I hope that it is native to the third chapter and the genderly discord person in Chapter 3, point 2. will not rekindle the awakened conscience of individuals in the Croatian Parliament, that it will therefore not accept this report and that it will again start talking about birth ideology. Therefore, there is some progress in this work, the provisions of the law on the life partnership of persons of the same sex, and therefore crimes motivated by hate, freedom of expression, the labour market, etc. There is some progress, and I hope that in this sense a person will become more and more equal in our society because of his sexual commitment. The report specifically discusses multiple discrimination, particularly sensitive social groups such as women in rural areas, women with disabilities, women members of national minorities, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, victims of human trafficking, and especially women and children. In this regard, it is good to take care of particularly sensitive social groups and especially those exposed to multiple discrimination every time these topics are, and not all the time, so take care of the particularly sensitive social groups and especially those who are exposed to multiple discrimination. As far as political participation is concerned, we have, in these previous parliamentary elections, followed by the local elections for the first time, also had the application of the violation provisions of the Law on Gender Equality because of the insufficient number of members of both, members or members of both sexes on the list, and the fact is that the electoral system that is such that, despite the fact that there are enough women on the list, they are generally located in lower places or not high enough to allow the fact that they have been placed on the list to be elected to representative bodies. So that's how I used to say that when I was discussing the law, it wasn't an effective means enough, so much more effective means for parties to be sanctioned by the number of those selected in representative bodies, not by the number of candidates, because candidates in lower places, especially when it's certain that only one candidate or candidate will actually be there for statistics or to say so as to be said in a colloquitically for decoration. In particular, the subject of reproductive health has been addressed and the Constitutional Court's decision on the Law on abortion and expressed hope and the desire that new legal solutions will not limit women's rights so far and we also join this requirement. I believe, therefore, that the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality and in the future will be as good as before, and with special satisfaction we will support the adoption of this report and I hope that the topics concerning the rights of individuals, the rights of certain weaker social groups, certain discriminated social groups will become less and less relevant in Croatia, although some of the trends that have been happening to us lately do not contribute to this. But it is up to us who have decided to deal with politics and we have the ambition to regulate relations in society based on our initiatives and on the basis of the laws we propose or which we accept or which we do not accept, to make it all that those who are weaker to be protected by the state and that also applies to the case of gender equality because once again, Colloquial colleague Jeckov has read from the dictionary the definition of women, and I will only mention that men are still called stronger sex, and women are called a more beautiful sex which is another kind of stereotype and discrimination. Therefore, to be equal sexes each with its specialities and each with its own qualities, and I hope, unfortunately, not so soon, but once again, that this topic will no longer be part of the day-to-day political dispute within the biggest party or among the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85566	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to an individual debate that has been attended by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85567	Thank you very much. Speaking of gender equality reports, it is my duty and duty to start from where I come from first. These are the meanings of rural areas that become empty and the fact is that if we're going to look at constitutionality, the equality of all pre-laws equal rights, we can say here's an example when women in the Dalmatian Zagora are going to do an ultrasound check, they're very unlikely to do so if they don't have money in a year. Because that's how the system is built, we don't have a radiologist, it's moving out, so from that side these women are in a much more unfavourable position than women are in Zagreb. Why is that? Because the state is centralized and therefore we have demographic chaos and two-thirds of Croatia is empty, it is one of the conditions. Is it normal for six months for women to wait for enrolment and when they come to enroll, the example of I speak the House of Health Sinj, so Vrgorac, the entire Dalmatian Zagora is probably the same in Slavonia, the ranks are thousands of women, many are fainting, many are ill and fail to enroll in the ultrasound for breast examination. Is that one way or the other, is that one condition of that demographic measure? That's why I said earlier that the solutions we offer, right here in front of me, is a colleague from Ines Strenja-Linić's health care who also provides solutions for this problem in our staying movement, so I would like to invite you to listen to it as a lawyer, to see that we are offering some solutions that you can promote, not only populistly, as my colleague Bauk has just said, we have passed the law that 40% of women are on the list of other sexes, but the fact is that 2016. The SDP has not met that quota as well as HDZ. So these are measures that are declarative, we're a little left, we're right, we're socially aware, but the fact is that that's the way things are on the ground. The fact is also that when our women, young girls or women go looking for a job that in a number of employers first question whether you want to give birth, everyone knows, it's a fact. And we're talking demographic measures. That it is possible for an entrepreneur in Croatia to ask a woman who has the capacity to qualify if you want to give birth. That's the basic criterion for losing his job. If he says I do, he won't take her as an employer. These are the things we need to talk about, which is why you're serving the D.A.'s office. I'm sorry that a number of advocates here, I don't know what it is now that we've brought to the Istanbul Convention how much violence has been reduced, but we as a state, I'm sorry that there are no more parliamentary deputies, I'm sorry that there's no more order to come forward and talk about our legislation, about our problems, and of course it was Istanbul in the centre of attention, of course it was full of Parliamentarians, of course they waved that pro-European policy implementation, but these are the facts, these are the things that are on the ground. In these two things we see everything about health care as to how women are treated and the question of employment with entrepreneurs. And as a state, we don't need... or an association that we pay millions to prove that we're bigger Europeans, I don't know what we are, but what we are. At this point, we must apply our legislation and see this as well as talk to the people who run our institutions. The D.A.'s here, is it so much that we've been able to convince people from this pay phone when the Istanbul Convention was being adopted when the debate was being held, the moment she gets it all going to be okay, and that's a lie. Here's the truth here, it's demagogy, it's a lie, it's showing its views to attract voters this is reality. The reality is these reports. And our legislation, so we have to do the maximum protection of women from those cowards mostly who fight those who ask you to give birth or you won't give birth to those are the misery that treats women that way. And I am sorry again, I am very sorry to take this opportunity which is not now the order of these reports, because this report is the Croatian institution i.e. A lawyer who is an institution and that is why our legislation is to see what has been done in all matters of inequality. Who is this of us here for discrimination? Nobody. And I'm sorry to repeat once again what is no longer here for Parliamentarians, I see that a large number of MPs, a large number of colleagues earlier said, of course it's the management that doesn't have so many MPs in total, but at this point very few MPs are here. And remember the Istanbul Convention, magnificent speeches, persuasions, quotes, philosophies. I am interested in Croatian legislation whether the Croatian Parliament is sovereign, institutions must be sovereign, we must protect all groups of women from weaker, children, families and that is the basis of everything. Are we going to apply in our legislation to protect women, not for 23 months to argue about the stork about that, and basically since the Istanbul Convention was passed, nothing has changed my dear ladies, nothing has changed here and a small number of gentlemen here who are in the Parliament. Once again, I would ask you all together to try to respect the Constitution throughout the Republic of Croatia, that our women and other citizens, of course, have the same option of health services, in employment, that there is no question of whether you will be born and about this very silent story, which is why, of course, certain media and certain groups of people... are they funding you naturally and media propaganda and so on. I would repeat once again that in Croatia we must have laws, we have laws, we have institutions, and by the basis of these institutions we have to fight for equality, against discrimination, and in this way we will only take a step forward, and not just some divisions, some conventions and some foreign associations... and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85568	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85569	Thank you. A colleague of Bulj, after the adoption and application of the Istanbul Convention, will certainly be more violent because the awareness of this may be much greater. But I don't want to talk about the Istanbul Convention right now, so I'd like to comment on your comment on access to healthcare, but also on everything that allows a woman to live a quality life, and that's what we should be working on. So it's unacceptable for a woman to be the one to stay at home because there are no ordinary kindergartens. It is completely incomprehensible that in the city of Rijeka which is such a large city, which could also provide financial security, a list was published last week and 280 children were left unlisted, meaning that these mothers must find a solution or cannot return to their jobs if they are doing after the first year of what they remained on maternity leave. That's what we need to talk about, we need to talk about the same way you said, and actually the Most offers through your laws... access to scientific protection, in particular the health care of women and those categories that should actually be devoted to the improvement of the law that would allow it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85570	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85571	Yes, colleague Linic, I'll start with this last one in the movement of the rest. You presented health care, and indeed we should all listen at least to listen as today was a banned film about energy that would help women in the Dalmatian area, have a social criterion, not to have heating and in Zagreb and elsewhere, it is a peacemaker because it would also relieve families and society... However, your program you have would like everyone to look at it and it is in the movement of the remnant that has recently been quietly mentioned lately and then more and more frequently mentioned, and would like others to look at that health care in the entire region of women and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85572	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, you've been spinning around in circles, so I'm going to sum up what you're actually saying. First, 40% is a sub-represented sex, so it's the law, not the woman, so I'm asking you to keep that in mind, and that's how I'm sending a discriminatory message to women. Right now, men are not a sub-represented sex in the Republic of Croatia, but who knows, maybe one day it comes to that. Secondly, we're only talking about women, the lawyer never in her report talks about women alone. So that's one stereotype. When it talks about stereotypes, it's you who listed that stereotype, and it talks a lot wider than this stereotype when you only talk about women. When you mention the laws, Croatian legislation can always be better arranged, I think we are all aware of that. But when you talk about laws, and the violation of those laws, then you're also invited as a national representative to what you are constantly calling on, that such irregularities, if you know them, have knowledge, report to or counsel, and thank God, you have a stage here where you can speak And I will end up, Mr. Vice President, I would also like you to find and surely you know at least two successful women and make them a positive example in the Republic of Croatia and not just negatively. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85574	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85575	You see, fellow Members, that changing the Rules of Procedure is not good. You've been way out of line for half a minute, but it doesn't matter. You're a journalist and, of course, you can do it in full, I'll speak in the language of the people, just as my mother taught me my father and the news business is such a trade and you do it differently... And you send different messages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the application of health care, so countless, thousands of protests are being held, I think you were a parliamentary representative during Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor or you were in the government. I even protested for the sonic birthplace and the radiology stationary knows it, Mr. Bačić, he was then a secretary of the party, then stayed at the maternity ward for my activities in Sinj, so that many of these activities that I had previously performed and reported to all the institutions of this irregularity that occurred in the case of women in the ranks, literally in the ranks, are waiting to be written down so that the breast ultrasound could be performed. It means they even sign up because they don't have any money, I can't go to the private. In us we benefit privates, to the health of women in rural areas because they have no opportunities, no resources, no organised public transport, and that is one important moment, which is why, because of health, which is why people move out of these areas. I'm glad you let me go for six seconds, and what 30 seconds did you let go of your distinguished party colleague, thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85576	I let your distinguished party colleague speak, too, much longer. ... Absolutely, absolutely. [[I don't understand.]] Here it is, and now finally, in the name of the rapporteur, something will be said by the Ombudsman for gender equality, Mrs Višnja Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85577	Respect for Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I especially thank all of you who have responded with your word today and with your opinions, suggestions, criticism or support have contributed to the subject that is today in the focus of the talks and otherwise the area which is dealt with by the lawyers for gender equality. I have to say it's hard to run in these days an institution that deals with the constitutional principle of gender equality. This is the area in our Constitution which I will recall, introduced in 2000, 18 years ago, where specific organic laws, the Law on Gender Equality 2003, the Law on Protection against Family Violence in 2003, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination 2008, that 18 years after the introduction of such a constitutional principle on issues that enter into the jurisdiction of this institution, we would have talked about secular topics or on gender-ideological topics. I am pleased when the work of the institution is recognised and when all our proactive approach towards state policy makers such as the Government, such as the Resort Ministry and civil society organisations, such as the academic community, when we can solve certain problems, point to certain trends and when we can offer solutions. We are, in addition to monitoring problems, creatively offering certain solutions that are either pro-European or arising from various case-laws, positive case-laws, national or European. When we talk about the Istanbul Convention, it is necessary to know that the Istanbul Convention has not yet entered into force even though it has been voted in this House, it is a convention that requires an analysis of the situation of existing legislation, which we have, which we do not have, and what needs to be harmonised, and this is exactly the report of the Ombudsman institution only if they can sublime in one place concrete measures that are necessary, in which legislative proposals, the legislative frameworks are amended, complemented or areas that are not yet adequately resolved or included in the existing legislation. There was a good government practice a few years ago, which is that it was analysed and I would say, check, control the recommendations adopted by the defence institutions that they proposed in their reports. So at the end of these reports other than the force of our recommendations proposed by four defence institutions, each government can see what is controversial, which is positive, which can be used and what can be legalized. Finally, I would just like to say that what was often mentioned in this assembly about the differences between men and women is that we are all aware that neither men nor women will ever be the same or biologically are the same, nor is anyone really insisting on it. What, as a society, as an institution, as responsible stakeholders, we must insist that we give everyone equal opportunities, equal chances, equal benefit from the results of our work. We want to believe that we are all equal by rights and that the only society that seeks and moves in this direction is truly a democratic society and a just society for all. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85578	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85579	Thank you. I would repeat once again that your report, like every year, is actually comprehensive and covers everything that actually gender equality and should be considered in fact, but I wonder if in all these years anyone has ever paid a penalty for not respecting at least the percentage of women on the lists? So, to repeat, the historical smallest number of women were elected to this now 9th meeting, only 19 women, it was brought up by correction, by going out of some parliamentary deputies, preventably repairing what did not happen with the election itself, which means that women on HDZ lists were quite low and positioned and therefore did not enter directly. I wonder if anyone paid the fine? So both past and previous parliamentary elections by the two largest SDP and HDZ parties failed to respect the percentage of women on the lists. The Most respected it in both of its parliamentary elections. But if we don't leave Parliament, we can't even look for it at lower levels. We can't look for it in hospitals, clinics, cathedrals, schools, executives. It's our half of this world, and we have a right to vote, and it's up to you to warn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85580	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed lawyer for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85581	I thank you for this question. In my opening speech, I stressed that I asked the chief state attorney to report whether criminal charges against 14 candidate lists and political party holders were initiated. The State Attorney's Office has led us to a rather schizophrenic situation where it has said that jurisdiction is not on it but on individual municipal state attorneys where there are political parties who have proposed in these parts in the local elections of the candidate list and that, by the calculation or statistical examination of their findings, we will receive very nearly that statistical data. We didn't get them until the end of the reporting period when we worked until March this year. However, we've sent a rush, and I personally initiated the state's attorney's office to initiate a misdemeanor report, which is as much as I could have done. So we're talking about political will and lack of political will that in 2008, ten years ago de jure, we haven't really met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85582	Thank you. That's what I'd like to conclude. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow at 09.30. So, Thursday, tomorrow. The first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing, second reading, P.Z. No. 286. If, like today, we are very effective, then we will end up adding another point, so that I announce in advance that you can prepare yourself, and that will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 281 Proposer Sinisha Varga. So if we're effective, if we succeed within this time limit as we do today, then we're going to add that point. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. Session interrupted at 16.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-06-0.u85583	Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2017, the applicant is a lawyer for gender equality. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2017 is accepted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 favour, 1 abstention and 2 votes against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. Dear colleagues and colleagues good morning, we continue our work. The first item today on the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on socially encouraged housing, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Construction, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the respected Predrag Štromar, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go, Vice President.
