ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80971	Good morning. We'll start with today's work and good. Since no one has reported for free speech, we are starting with: - Proposal for a Law on Audiovisual Activities, first reading, P.Z. No. 319 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 3. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Culture, Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80972	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft proposal for the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which the Government directs the Parliament in its first reading and allow me to present some basic procedures regarding this law in the introduction. I would remind myself that the Law on Audiovisual Activities was first adopted in 2007, which determined the implementation, organisation and financing of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia and established the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. The basic intention of this new law is to complete and perfect the then-set model. It would point out that, in fact, decentralisation of film policy and general policy towards audiovisual activities was the first major reform of the Croatian cultural system, which led to decentralisation of decision-making and financing in one important activity, professionalisation in all parts of the support. In fact, while the film's support system was at the Ministry of Culture, the emphasis was cornered. and almost exclusively on film financing, and the structure of the audiovisual centre, it has actually started working systematically on all other aspects that are extremely important for the success of the national audiovisual industry, which is promotion of distribution, international co-operation, etc. This 2007 law also made the first commitment to the adoption of a national plan for the development of audiovisual industry as a key strategic document, so far set up 2 such plans, for 2 consecutive periods and in fact it has proved that this type of adoption of national plans is extremely useful for the reconciliation of cultural policy objectives in certain areas. Well, I'll mention that model we're introducing now and through new laws on archives, libraries and museums that are in different phases of discussion in this body. As part of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the office is also working to support the media programme. This year we have marked 10 years since the accession of this programme and it is worth noting that more than 6m euros have been withdrawn so far through this support system. Since 2008, 100 feature films have been co-financed, 40 minority co-productions. In the opening part of the reasoning of the law, we gave some more information that we consider important, that this new legal proposal be put into context, refers to data on domestic cinema distribution and at festivals, where 200 feature Croatian films of all generations are shown over 7 years. Significant results have been achieved for the international distribution of home film in which some films have played in more than 20 countries around the world with a view of more than 100,000 viewers. From 2010-2017 from the co-production fund... It was recovered more than, it was withdrawn more than, it was withdrawn about 2.3 times as much as what was invested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 7 times more, if taken into account European co-productions with a minority share. I mention all of this because, in the new law, we also observe the development of national audiovisual activities and audiovisual industries, looking simultaneously at support in all parts, from production, according to promotion, distribution and of course, placement to international markets. I would also mention that in 2011 by amending the current Law on Audiovisual Activities, investment-enhancing measures were introduced, and later I will say more about how we retain this model in the new law, modelled by a number of other European and outside European countries, and aware not only of the financial effects, but also of the major impact on employment, Croatian film workers, but also of the immeasurable contribution of Croatian promotions, we have chosen a 20% model of the local cost, which has helped bring numerous film projects into the Republic. Since the introduction of the incentive measures in the production of audiovisual works by the end of 2017, a total of 45 projects have been recorded that have achieved total local consumption of 580 million kuna, of which as many as 190 million have been achieved in the last year alone. Although this type of export binds the angle. in the perception of our public with some well-known tourist sites such as Dubrovnik or Split, it should be noted that so far it has been recorded in 10 Croatian counties, and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre is working to attract film teams in all parts of Croatia to develop a model and I believe that we will give some recommendations in order to encourage recording in less developed parts of Croatia. The growth and development of contemporary Croatian cinema in the last period on the one hand has enabled Croatia's international visibility at the world's leading film festivals, but also created the need to strengthen the structure that can systematically support and stimulate further development of the Croatian audiovisual industry. The last of these introductory thesis which reflects and drafts the law, so the last point you would like to mention, is that the Ministry of Culture and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, and according to the National Programme for Audiovisual Activity Development, launched a digitalisation project in 2011. So far, 60 cinemas have been digitized, and this project continues. Thanks to the systematic support of the promotion of home film in all genres through the financing of the cinema network, regular programme and festivals, the digitisation of cinemas and is particularly important for smaller environments in Croatia where cinemas during the Homeland War or transition were lost, closed, stopped functioning. The number of audiences or cinema visits per capita from 2010 to 2017 is constantly increasing. 2010. 0.75, today 1.02 visits are data for 2017 and this trend is constantly growing. It is this law that recognises the need for permanent support in all segments to strengthen cinema distribution and participation in all parts of Croatia. As for the law itself that is before you, this law in the first order is governed by definitions of audiovisual activity and audiovisual work. Important concepts for law enforcement such as The definition of demanding audiovisual work, complementary activities, the definition of Croatian film are all very important both for national financing and for the position of Croatian film employees in international co-productions. For the first time in this new law in the field of audiovisual activities, we also include video games, creating a legal framework for the further development of one of the most promising segments of the audiovisual industry. As we know, the video game industry in Croatia is extremely dynamic, there are a large number of companies and a large number of young creative individuals operating in Croatia, and their market is mostly global. And we think it is important that that part of the audiovisual activity is included in the law, too, so that through the national programme, investment needs in this part of the industry can also be recognised in subsequent iterations. The law continues to provide for the adoption of a national programme, which I have mentioned several times, but this new law wants to give to the importance of the national programme as a fundamental strategic programme, we propose that this national programme be adopted by the Government, not as the Ministry of Culture so far. The law also lays down precise deadlines and procedures for the adoption of the national programme as well as the procedure for the adoption and harmonisation of the annual plan for the implementation of the national programme with the financial plan of the Audiovisual Centre. The new Law on Audiovisual Activities defines precisely how to conduct public calls with the aim of encouraging investment in production, promotion and distribution of audiovisual works, and introduces a whole series of improvements in the so far implemented procedures which, unfortunately, were sometimes known to be the subject of media and other interests. The law regulates all important issues of production, transport and public display of audiovisual works including the issues of categorization and, in particular, the issue of which we are extremely sensitive both in this law and in media laws, and concerns the protection of minors. The new law retains the model of diversified collection of funds for the financing of audiovisual activities, so with the state budget, the percentage of revenues made to the audiovisual activities carried out by different percentages are paid as HAVC funds and subsequently used for the implementation of the national programme. I would like to mention here that it is currently in the trilogue in the last phase of harmonisation in the European Commission that the revision of the Audiovisual Services Directive is and it is important to note that this directive will also contain provisions allowing Member States to use revenues, part of revenues from different media that are made on different media platforms to finance domestic and European audiovisual content. In our case, of course, this means direct promotion of the diversity of the Croatian audiovisual industry. Perhaps, in this context, it should be mentioned that other than investment in film production, the new law allows, and this will be developed in detail, investment and other forms of production later on. We're talking about television production here in the first place. We know that lately in the Republic of Croatia is growing the share of production of independent television producers, especially on HRT, and it may be worth mentioning the recent success of the first exports of one, not only of Croatian but also of a series in any of the Slavic languages on the global Netflix platform. These are all successes that show the competitiveness, innovation and creativity of the Croatian audiovisual industry. Finally, I would like to mention that a new structure of the Management Board is being introduced in which one economic, financial and legal expert and two members of the audiovisual activity experts are now appointed. The criteria for appointments in all bodies of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre have been consolidated, a new structure of the Croatian Audiovisual Council is introduced, including a member of the Ministry of Culture, the conditions and professional qualifications for the appointment of members, as well as the process of certification of appointed members by the Minister of Culture and the term of office of members is reduced from 4 to 2 years. Detailed procedures for the appointment and resolution of directors and members of the centre shall be detailed and regulated by the issue of conflict of interest for the authorities of the centre and artistic advisers. Self-regulatory and co-regulation mechanisms shall be introduced so that certain issues can be regulated by agreement between stakeholders and for the purpose of equating their application in practice. The way in which the public calls to the centre are called shall be determined with the annual implementation plan of the national programme and the project evaluation criteria. Finally, there is the possibility of funding investment-enhancing measures from other sources, and taking into account changes, especially in the structure of media companies in which they operate on our and European markets. Finally, I would like to say that this draft bill has been drawn up in cooperation with representatives of associations, a broad public debate has passed, and some new stakeholders have been involved. We believe that we have achieved the goal of strengthening the existing model of editing and supporting audiovisual activities, to correct certain irregularities that have led to difficulties in the work of the audiovisual centre. The main goal through this law, but also all the measures we are developing to encourage Croatian cultural and creative industries is to ensure that creators, artists have the conditions to create in the Republic of Croatia and that they do not have to seek work outside the border, that all national incentive measures are available to them, but that we are helping the audiovisual centre to connect with foreign co-producers and to ensure co-financing from many European and international programmes that are available to us. Finally, it should be pointed out that this law places a special emphasis on the promotion of Croatian film because, through the promotion of Croatian film, we are actually promoting Croatian culture, but we are making the entire country visible and recognizable as a state of creative individuals who create interesting, European, globally relevant audiovisual works. I hope that through the debate we will hear interesting proposals for possible improvements to this draft bill and we will consider all of this, of course, and we hope to come very soon with the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80973	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80974	Your Honors Minister. You gave a report on the work of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. I didn't hear you mention that there's a movie, maybe there is one, but you didn't mention, that he's fostering and who's talking, he's talking about the topic of the Homeland War. I think it is one topic that must certainly be represented in the financing of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, and I don't think it is. And I'm asking you to answer here, given that you gave us a report on the work, how many films were funded during your term of office? How much earlier was it compared to the total budget, i.e. the total production? I find it inadmissible that this topic is so poorly represented because the Croatian Audiovisual Centre must be the one who will cultivate the values that we possess, which will contribute to the quality of life in Croatian society and of course the state of the spirit. That neglect and ignoring is inadmissible. Here, I'm looking for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80975	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80976	Dear Mr. Representative, I am sorry if you took my opening presentation as a report on the work of an individual institution, since the Croatian Parliament is not the place where the report on the work of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre is handed over. I was talking about data related to the Croatian audiovisual industry. By the effects of the current law, and why we believe that this new law can and should lead to certain improvements. I have no specific data on the types of films, thematics, sorted by certain topics, not for the period from 2008 to today, nor for the period earlier. If you ask such a question we will try to provide you with this information, so the data of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre on the financing of all films is published through their annual report, are also available on the web pages, but are not on the subject of a particular film, but on genres, meaning long-term, short-term, animated, documentary, experimental, and we can ask the Croatian Audiovisual Centre to deliver some report by another classification.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80977	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80978	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear Madam Minister with fellow Members. We know that the first law is complete on audiovisual activity passed only in 2007. Since the '80s. In the years when the Cinema Act was passed, this area was being edited, this area was being edited only in the work concerning film and cinema. Whether equating the legal rights of film and video games is possible, introducing a new industry into existing laws is not easy, but it can contribute to the development of the video games industry in the long term as well as the film industry. It is positive in this law that games are viewed as audiovisual activity but incentives are necessary because everyone who works in this segment themselves or in some other way finance the development of games. How to encourage these enthusiasts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80979	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80980	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here I believe that this law was a good path we took in 2007 and continued over the coming years. What unfortunately marks always the debate over this problem is excess ideology and politicizing about art. I would like to remind here once again of the excellent work done by the former director, Mr. Hribar, whose term of office, in a very short time, created a business, or production in Croatia worth hundreds of millions of kuna, and so should be continued. And I will support the future of the work center. I think that Croatia really has a big space in this area that I see more and more every day, and I don't need to worry about the petty awakenings of those who have ideologically strayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80981	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80982	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to continue in a brief discussion, and I'm going to say what we think is good in this law and what we think needs to be improved. Now, special, in a way and a confession, here's the ministry, you've done a big job, you've seen it in public debate, and it's good to have the law in two readings, to make this all really into one quality text. Because what I am, I seem to have noticed is that this law is also encouraged and, in fact, by the state audit that was in the area itself, which is why some of the things that are offered in this legislative proposal are good. What good things are these? The criteria for people in managing bodies are rising, which is extremely important. What might have been more clear was what it is, what is meant by working experience because there are free artists who do not have a working contract because they can also report to participate in such an important body because the governing bodies are ultimately also crucial to ensure that the whole process is transparent, so that there are no such ones and colleagues Maras mentioned in his replica that there would be no story on ideological topics afterwards. Because there is no ideological theme to be seen but to look at when clear criteria are set that satisfy these criteria that can then both be transparently and in the right way to finance. Because the good minister pointed out, and that's the key. We're talking about audiovisual activity and audiovisual industry, watch the industry. Today for the economy is also very important for this industry. I'll say something about that later. The other thing is, the good thing, and I say, given the findings of the audit, that the administrative council of three proposing the ministry is appointed one in the area of economic, financial or legal areas. This is an extremely important, important same item because it is about supervision and in some ways they are doing it, being a supervisory board or, let me say, observing the financial plans and confirming financial reports. And it's a good thing there's one person in that area. What was not good and that was also on the board, I believe that my colleague Bedeković will also talk about it because it was sent, the Croatian Society of Drama Artists sent a letter, they complain that he did not, not cover any member of the Board of Directors, one member of the Council that is not from their ranks and that is Article 35(4). Well, I don't think there's any reason if, here, they say there were words on the board, that it would be an even number of members, but that's what can be solved if one member of the council is made out of video game clusters in the Republic of Croatia. And now I wanted to dedicate this last part of the debate to that part of the question, maybe here I am, but this is not a matter of the ministry, this is a matter of public debate, the Minister or the Ministry, and I'm going to conditionally say shyly put video games into this bill because it's about new technologies about something that of course, when we say a new conditionality already exists, 20, 30 years there since the appearance of tetris, so later Super Maria, so it seems to me that Super Mario might be able to jump to HGK because we see in a public debate in point 23 where the chamber makes its remarks, she says let's delete video games from this. It's not a good message. Watch out, the Chamber of Commerce says let them wipe out. I don't know how much at this point, $90 billion, twice as much as the entire film industry. And we can't close our eyes as a society because there's an opportunity for young people, we see that fast-growing companies are rapidly growing, as they are called, developer companies in Croatia are precisely in this area. Somewhere, 50 million kunas of revenue were made in one year. And there is no need, the ministry needs even harder, I will personally propose amendments if necessary, this should not be feared. You should even ask for more then, I know that the culture ministry is in such a position as to make it difficult for the finance minister. But I need money to make sure that things like this don't get avoided. Yesterday we talked about the Law in road transport where new technologies appear. And maybe it's just, maybe new technologies are a contribution, maybe it's an opportunity for us to promote and, say, the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country, so the Ministry of Culture is calling for an invitation to create computer games that will promote the sights of the Republic of Croatia in other areas. It's an opportunity. We don't have to be afraid. And so I say a little bit, here's what I'm personally doing to GK how can I write to delete? Well, don't, because then we're running away from something that could make significant revenues in the future. But to conclude, the bill itself is good, it covers all the areas that matter to these activities and I hope that until the final version after the second reading, it will have a quality proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80983	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with your associates. It may not be quite clear to all how important this is from all aspects, political, artistic, cultural, identity. A month ago at the Future conference, or the start of the project "Future of Europe", at the Institute in Vienna for Social Research, for example... A political analyst from Slovakia came to me and told me what happened to you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've had a great film industry. You guys had fantastic movies up until two years ago, where is it? A man who deals with Eastern Europe, not especially us, but all the transition Eastern European countries and who noticed looking over the board to say so, looking from Slovakia, that in Croatia, in one period the film industry flourished and then disappeared. And that's kind of what this law is about. Croatian tourism has been promoted, there are many reasons why it flourished, but among the most important are the Game of Trones and one television reality show shown in Korea in which a man who was just in Croatia defeated. So this type of activity has a huge impact not only on the economic, of course and economic but huge impact on the projection and profiling of the identity of us as countries and us as societies. In the preamble of this law, and in some ways the minister here has also said little about it, in my opinion, too little about it, saying the introduction, so the preamble of this law shows that what has been defined by the relationship between the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the National Audiovisual Council and the Ministry of Culture has been extremely successful. That obviously worked great. The number of films, festivals that include Croatian films, profits, the number of people who worked on movies, if you look at these statistics in preamble, increased by between 300 and 700%. So between 2010 and 2017, they increased 3 to 7 times, and I mentioned different categories here. What's the problem? So why is the law under the old rule ‘If it ain't broke, don't fix it’ in other words if something isn't broken don't fix it, if that law produced results or under that law are produced results and I can't remember any other activities with us where they are so good and comparatively, such good results produced, why the law is changing. So today, and it changes exactly in this part. The de facto essence of what changes in this law how much I have managed to understand is by reading the ratio of profession, art and political control. These three elements, between them, introduce a new relationship. Therefore, political control of art and professionally strengthens. And that's the point that, if I'm wrong, I'm going to be very happy and I'm asking it to be shown to me, but by what I've been able to read here, that's what this law is really changing. Like any law, of course, and so far, there's plenty of room for promotion. For example. One element is funding. And in the current law that has so far been in force, it is mentioned that cinema viewers are given 0.1% of their revenue for film financing. In the current law, it was supposed to be a tipfeller, allegedly a printing mistake or at least it was explained that it was a printer's mistake. Well, that press mistake hasn't been corrected in this law. So, if it's a printing mistake, correct it. If it's not a printing mistake, it's between 20 and 30 times less than anyone else in any other European country. So that kind of thing gets fixed. Absolutely they need to be fixed, but what is important is this relationship between artistic freedom, professional decisions and political control is, as we know from the period of Ždanov and various socio-realistic programs, deadly to art. Deadly for cinematography, Eisenstein couldn't survive it, let alone anyone today. So it's clear to me that and that's where we heard it, and we'll hear for sure today that it's from these thirsty perspectives, so political-programme influences and exerting pressure and attacks on people who are engaged in art and who are engaged, in this case in film, that they were very expressive. But the law is not to be written out of fear. The main motive for changing the law can't be fear because that kind of attack can't be neutralized. It's never enough, as it's known. It's never enough. They will always want some commissioners to influence who, what films are going to be about. And once you give one finger to such an influence, such an opportunity will grab your whole head that's much more important than your hand here, I'd say. So at this point we've had a national audio-visual program since last year, which has been in effect for a year. What's up with that? Is this program being implemented, is it impossible to implement, so what happened to that program? Next observation, I think less significant than this crucial relationship between political power and artistic freedom and the redefine of balance between the law, as far as I can see, there is nothing about digital society and the development of Croatian audio-visual content on the Internet. I may not have understood it well, but what I saw by reading this Law, I found nothing about it, and that is also a European strategy, that is something that Croatia absolutely thinks must participate in. If there is, please show, if there isn't, it would be, I think, very useful to include it somehow by the second reading and cover it up. Another element that is not mentioned here is, for example, the situation on HRT and the presence of Croatian film on HRT which is minimal. Let's say, the famous Adriatic film, the victim of the '90s privatisation, which is now being sold out as much as we see as land, and where it is, among other things, Croatian film heritage. The general impression is that after these public circuses and attacks that were really very unpleasant and that I don't know if they would use it, but it doesn't matter, I have to confess to the minister that she was really principled and with one normal attitude. However, without further ado, it is never pleasant and neither was it pleasant. But the reaction to that and the attempt to avoid it cannot be to reduce the national audio-visual council of autonomy, that now the final decision will not be confirmed by the Ministry what the audio-visual centre and the National Audio-visual Council have made, but the ministry will make a final decision on what is to be produced, that the National Audio-visual Council will also have a representative of the Ministry. So, as I said, the impact will change and the relationship between expertise, artistic creation and political administration, where the political administration gets a significantly greater impact. This especially doesn't seem rational to me in a situation where the arrangement that has been in place so far has produced really good results as mentioned here at the beginning of the law. Finally, in the final articles of this Law, there is also talk of a conflict of interest. In other words, it is said that, on the one hand, institutions are sending their people to the national audio-visual council, and on the other hand, which these people they send can't all be. I'm asking you to look at it because I won't have time to convince it all now. These are articles, compare article 35 which speaks, who is appointed, who appoints one representative, therefore, which institutions appoint one representative to the National Audiovisual Council and Article. 38th, which speaks of a conflict of interest, i.e. who must not be a member of that national audiovisual council because it is in conflict of interest. And now that you look at these institutions, let's say, from something called, I don't know, the society of Croatian film directors, the Croatian Association of Producers, the Croatian Association of Film Recorders, so all associations that have the right to have their own representatives, who gather people who do film, should not actually send these people into film, could send people from accounting or maintenance. Because all these people, if you look at, the article, the next one that speaks, will be in conflict of interest or must give up on 4 years of their professions, quit, resign, I don't know how to set up what would be disastrous, of course, and what that can do is people who are bad directors, bad cameramen, so, bad at their professions, will then get through this, through these channels to the bodies that make the decisions on funding. So, because they're bad at their profession, it's just going to be those who decide on their profession, because it's no harm in leaving that profession in favour of political interest. It doesn't have to be like that, of course, but unfortunately, it can be like that and that's why I'm warning you that if we can do it in some way, we can solve it until another reading, including these other things that she mentioned. Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80985	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the motionary, she will speak to the respected Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered the word just to make some points refer to them, and later on, we'll be doing careful notes and later, of course, we'll refer to all the questions that concern the substantial objections to the law, but what I really wanted to respond to right away is the mention of fear. I suppose it was about me and my colleagues at the ministry, and I'd like to reassure you, we've had enough, we haven't felt any fear, and we haven't been afraid of anything, and this bill is not the result of anyone's fear. On the contrary, the draft law is the result of the need, that the system which we have built in 2007 through the first law and in 2011 through amendments and additions to the law, should now be improved in 2018 through one law, a new law, which will ensure that certain problems that have been observed by the documents. And in that sense, I really need to reject any interpretation, so that policy is now mixed in any way, especially in deciding which films will be filmed or not recorded. Even in the Ministry of Culture, where cultural councils are advisory, in this term of office of the Government and in my mandate of the Minister, I have shown that decisions of the council and such advisory council can be fully respected, and let alone bodies such as the audiovisual council, which are prescribed by law. The Ministry of Culture will have 1 out of 15 members, neither the loudest nor the last I hope to find. So 1 out of 15 will be a representative of the Ministry of Culture. I remind you of some other bodies, e.g. Croatian supervisory authorities, the supervisory authorities of our important institutions, are grey representatives appointed by some ministry or some political body, here is 1 out of 15. So there won't be any interference in deciding which films will be made. This law does not open up the possibility, in any way, of disrupting the relationship that you mentioned between art and profession and political control. If through some discussions we see that anyone, in this law, but on some concrete example, notices that the model so far has changed, we will certainly consider it until another reading. But if you look at the public debate, it is clear that both associations and all those who give representatives to the audiovisual council have read the bill, as well as the one that guards the current model. However, we do not note that there have been some problems in financial business, that there have been some problems in the alignment of the annual plan of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and the national programme, as a basic strategic document, which determines funding. And in very momentous and precise and long talks between the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, we have introduced certain improvements, so that these problems will no longer occur. But, indeed, I want to assure you that there is no ambition, that, in relation to the law that we've been making in 2007 today, we're doing some steps in terms of jeopardizing any artistic freedom or change, of mixing the Ministry of Culture in making decisions on certain films, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80987	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for the replicas, we welcome the students of the Maruševec High School, who are here with us on the guests... And Nenad Stazic, the esteemed representative, will say to the replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80988	Your Honors Minister. It's hard for you to convince us that fear isn't the motive of your actions, when we know that on the 10th month of 2016, you've been run by a heist of defense associations, an unseen hack, and it's precisely because of HAVC, for nothing else. And now you're responding to that hack changing the law by estimating HAVC. I'm going to prove it to you in the debate on behalf of the club because the replica only lasts for one minute and I want to replicate what you've just come out to say, not the law, what you've now come out to say by defending yourself from acting with a motive of fear. It's very hard to believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80989	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80990	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Minister Oguljen-Koriženak with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on audiovisual activities in the first reading. I remind you that the proposal has received a positive opinion from the government and that this proposal has been discussed on the parent board and has been accepted by most votes. What is already said, I will just repeat, therefore, the problem of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia was first regulated by the Law on Audiovisual Activities of 2007 and later completed by the Law on Changes and Supplements of the same Law in 2011 and thus according to the applicable laws that we currently have, primarily, the organisation, organisation and financing of audiovisual activities, the promotion of audiovisual creation and distribution and complementary activities, the protection of audiovisual heritage, the promotion of cinemas of demonstrations and the demonstration of Croatian audiovisual works both in the country and abroad and also financial incentives for investment in the production of audiovisual works as cultural products in the form of the return of a certain percentage of the total cost of audiovisual works in Croatia. And in the application of the current legal provisions of 2007, later in 2011, given the distance of years and times in which we live, difficulties have been observed, some of them are, for example, related to the provisions of Articles 7 to 15 which regulate the way of choice and only the appointment of the centre's bodies as well as their powers, and, among other things, the lack of prescribed deadlines related to the launch of the new National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation. And of course this law, which we have in our first reading, I first and foremost experience as one basis and a basis for improving and better regulation of issues in the field of audiovisual activities and one opportunity to regulate them in a clearer and more transparent way above all, has already been discussed, and therefore, the selection of members of the centre body, as well as a list of their powers. Similarly, in order to ensure the smooth work of the centre, the procedure for the appointment of members of the Croatian Audiovisual Council is prescribed, so I personally consider it good that the deadline goes to two years. And what I find quite important is the regulation of the issue of conflict of interest that my colleague spoke of before me, I agree that possibly given that the first reading could still be devised and reshape some sentences. Similarly, the composition of board members, council members and artistic advisers who can also find themselves in conflict of interest in this way is defined more clearly, and I consider this issue to be an important issue to be addressed in detail. Furthermore, what I consider to be more important is the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation, in a way that is primarily regulated by the scope and manner of promoting audiovisual activities and complementary and other activities, and then the promotion of audiovisual culture and creativity that are relevant to the development of Croatian culture, as well as activities related to participation in EU programmes and other international contracts and other important issues for the development of this activity. What I find rather significant and a little bit of a reminder here is that thanks to the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation, continued growth and development of the overall audiovisual activity in the Republic of Croatia has been achieved, which has achieved quite the observed results both at national and international level. The production of audiovisual works in the minority or majority Croatian production is also shown to be on the rise and Croatian films are included in the programmes of some of the world festivals where awards and recognitions are won, and a network of independent cinematographers has also been created throughout the Republic of Croatia. What I consider important, this bill states that the Croatian Audiovisual Council is required at least 90 days before the end of the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation to the Ministry of Culture Affairs to submit a draft proposal to the National Programme for the next four years, followed by the Government, and brings the National Programme for the Promotion of Audiovisual Creation to the Ministry of Culture. Similarly, this legislative proposal seems to me as something, as a newspaper, introduces and regulate certain issues in the field of audiovisual creation in such a way that such arrangements, such arrangements must be generally accepted by the main stakeholders in the Republic of Croatia to which these individual provisions of this law apply and approved by the Croatian Audiovisual Council, here I am talking about the use of the co-regulation mechanism which I consider very important and thus is expected to establish the general conditions under which artists and other employees can participate in the implementation of the national programme for promoting audiovisual creativity. What has already been said, I think it is important to repeat that the basic issues that this law regulates are primarily related to the regulation of definitions of audiovisual activities and the very audiovisual work itself. What I've already said, by introducing self-regulatory and co-regulatory mechanisms, setting deadlines and procedures for the adoption of a national programme, I find that very important. What I find extremely important is the introduction of the possibility of funding incentives and investment in the production of audiovisual works from other sources, therefore not only from the state budget. Then also regulate the way in which HAVC works and implements the national programme and encourage investment in the production of audiovisual works, defining, precision of the criteria and procedures of appointments, as well as the resolution of both the director and members of the body of the centre and artistic advisers and of course the regulation of the authority of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and, as has been mentioned several times, the adjustment of conflicts of interest for the members of the Centre and the artistic advisers and ultimately, no less important, the regulation and regulation of transitional and final provisions. In the end, I'm going to say one more suggestion about transitional and final provisions. It is already said, among the important consequences that will arise when the law is passed, first of all, emphasising the national importance of the development of audiovisual activities through the adoption of the national programme, ensuring more effective work of the HAVC, empowerment, I find it really important, strengthening the expertise of the centre's body and precision of the appointment process and what has already been said to settle more detailed issues of conflict of interest. What I think the minister already stressed in the opening part of her presentation is that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. What I consider to be pointed out, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will, of course, support the proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, such as here in the first reading, with respect of, of course, the observations relating to Article 2, Articles 25 and 35 of the parent committee which should be regulated until the second reading. In particular, this applies to Article 25(1), sub-paragraph 6 concerning the increase in the issue of cinematics, it seems to me that the colleague was talking about it, so we agree that this amount should be increased. It would then also be necessary to specify in Article 35 paragraph 10, which means the constituent majority, is that absolute, is that relative, is that two-thirds, which is necessary for the establishment of the Croatian Audiovisual Council. And regarding the transitional and final provisions, I would, I would, I would need to draw attention to the regulation of criteria and the procedure of appointment and resolution, both the director of the centre, so members of the centre's body, artistic advisors, etc. which is proposed and arranged, however, if we take a look at Article 43(1). 2nd and 3rd in the transitional and final provisions, then we will see that the process of resolution and appointment of all new ones, from the directors to the members of the body, should be evened out. It is prescribed in Article 1 that the Director of the Centre shall continue to work and after the entry into force of this Act, and already in the following article of the Management Board members, the members of the Board shall continue to work, but until the day of appointment of the new ones, with a deadline of 30 days for the call for appointment of new members of the Board, I consider that the same approach should be applied in all and in the transitional and final provisions, so as to arrange the procedure for the resolution and appointment of new and directors and members of the body of the Centre, so as well as advisers and all those who are in the process. Here, I think it is important once again to point out that it is necessary and well that the law goes into two readings, so until the second reading we have time, so we too, and then the proposer of all these suggestions that will be implemented after, as the debate of clubs, so individual debates are incorporated into the final version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80991	Thank you, too. It is now the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80992	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, more than just a symbol of you being the one who usually has my back. Representatives, MPs, state secretary, respected ministers, in order not to fall asleep from boredom, should say the following. The essence of this legislative proposal on audiovisual activities as well as the current same-named law was not what we have listened to with the current bureaucratic meta language but only what is under point 5 and the name of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, shortened HAVC. HAVC as a public institution which is the founder of the Croatian state and not a group of so-called an expert or private company for the establishment of private business interests. ... as well as a lot of others during the time of Sanader's Croatian Government, not as an instrument of a certain state cultural policy towards Croatian film but in reality only as an instrument of satisfying particular business and financial interests, certain directorial and producer co-eries of HAVC have, over a decade, turned the concept into a very sophisticated and legally institutionalised interest in corruption and clientilist network with features of octopus whose tentacles have deeply hit and penetrated the media and in particular into politics by turning ministers, namely culture ministers into her trustees and perpetrators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although a significant number of actors of this interesting, corrupt and customerelic network, especially its long-term head represent people devoid of any deeper worldly or political ideological belief with the exception of that material nature, they have skillfully adapted their action and aesthetics to the dominant international, cultural, idea festival conukture and to present their critics with labels for... artistic and creative freedoms, backlogs, provincialists and narrow-minded nationalists, which, in itself, had to be opened and opened by the doors of international film festivals and jury. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my presentation, I will refrain from world-wide value and aesthetic controversy and judgments, but on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, I want to focus on what is only important in the context of this legislative proposal. The fundamental problem of Croatian film and Croatian cinematography in the context of this legislative proposal, apart from the constant senselessness and the problem of talent and lack of talent that I leave to others. It is not an alleged threat to state governance from the so-called ideological initiatives are already a problem. The unclear division of Croatian taxpayers' money within HAVC, division by unclear criteria, more specifically the lack of any criteria other than the interesting customerelic connection with the classic features of corruption, which I also pointed out as a minister to the media agitprop and the diaphation campaign, and the same corrupt network which, in a ghastly attempt to preserve the monopolies found in the campaign, also transferred that campaign to the international area. Croatian cinema should not protect against the state and those who point to corruption and clientalism but from all forms of crime and various embezzlements of Croatian taxpayers' money from unsatisfaction more precisely than the HAVC itself. I repeat, HAVC was not supposed to be a private company, but rather an instrument of Croatian state cultural policy and what it has never become. A number of irregularities and illegalities in HAVC were warned for years without any real effects. Such practices lasted and continued until the last minute of the term of office of the Pharaoh of Croatian Film, which was withdrawn only after the publication of the findings of the state audit awarded by his close associate and confidant on the board of directors of the HAVC of today's Minister of Culture, with the possibility that he would step down instead of being removed and subject to an appropriate criminal procedure. The 2015 State Audit find is only a drop in the sea of irregularities of various abuses of positions and illegalities over the last seven years. The fact that the findings of state audits, as well as other notor facts and evidence, are rejected and relativated by legally institutionalised interest-related octopuses, demonstrates the tenacity to continue to do so. Now in the protection and sponsorship of the Croatian Ministry of Culture of the Government and this Croatian Parliament, before which instead of a legislative proposal with the purpose of rooting a demonstration, not Croatian cinematography but institutionalised systems of multiple conflicts of interest and corrupt networks found this camel law with cosmetic changes which in no way can change what the HAVC became born into. The Croatian Parliament and the public must not fall for political and parapolitical agiprop and pamphletism on the alleged opposition to artistic freedoms and autonomy of film creation but should focus on key points. How to prevent further distribution of public money and segregation within the circle of one and the same companies, business interests and whether clicking from two associations of Croatian film directors and Croatian producer associations can mobing and monopolize Croatian cinematography for their business ideological goals and interests that I repeat are not the same as the interests of Croatian film and Croatian cinematography, for the plastic illustration of operandia modus, distribution of public money only examples. One distinguished celebrity Croatian director, middle-aged HAVC first as director, received money for the film 3 million 600 thousand kuna, producer, permanent cinema 2008. Then the same, for the development of the project, the long film 150 thousand kuna, producer of the cinema 2011. Then for the same movie 4 million kuna, producer Kinorama 2011. Just beyond that, the distinguished director, now as an art adviser at HAVC in tandem with another artistic advisor, at the same time approves HRT employees 3 million and 200 thousand for the second film, producer of course Kinorama 2014. The same artistic director of 2014 film so-called Zombie horror, the comedy of the debutant in the flower of the young Predrag Peđa Đ persona, the last Serb in Croatia 3 million kunas, producer, of course Kinorama. The film we are still looking forward to, which Mr. Licina announced in 2015, is now like the film that should be celebrated by everyone so-called. radical rightists in Croatia, but which, in order to be celebrated, must first be... Next, the same artistic advisor, 3 film, 3 million kuna producer, guess Kinorama 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simplifiedly, first you get public money from HAVC for making films, with the production house Kinorama, 2 years later as an artistic advisor to the same house, assign 9 million kunas of public money to the same house. It's just, you just need to know that, you know, it's not called Ernest, it's enough to be called for example. Dalibor. Let us compare this with the practice of various Brussels European bodies, which, of course, measured both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture. A person who works in an institution or company, 5 years after termination of employment, must in no way evaluate projects from that company. So why is something not allowed by the European Brussels Jupiter allowed by the Croatian film ox. One of the objections, not only to my actions and arguments, whether it is a rational attempt to demonstrate Croatian cinematography, just at the moment, when she is experiencing a renaissance thanks to HAVC, not to say air conditioning, or as Mrs Pusic would say, so these are the great moments of Croatian film, of course she says one of the close associates and protectors of Mr Hribar, whose most important artistic achievements are the shooting of pre-election videos for the Croatian People's Party. Therefore, the same report on the visibility of the unprecedented successes of Croatian film should nevertheless be seen outside media myths and legends solely based on facts. The only Croatian film, I repeat the only one since 1991 and the establishment of Croatian state independence, which was in the official competition of one A category festival, so Berlin, Can, Venice, is the film of one distinguished Croatian director at the Berlin International Film Festival, but in 2004 when there was no HAVC at all. All other directorial painting on the red carpet outside the official competition of the Cannes Film Festival looks good on the duplicate Gloria, but they are not enough to judge the true international success of Croatian film. Comparing this with the real international achievements of Yugoslav cinematography, such as infamous Kusturica or Zafranovic, would be entirely inappropriate on my part. So there are several cosmetic procedures in the law, which are certainly not at the will of the elements, which I have written at the outset. For example, when the state audit gave the right, that the director of HAVC could not make payments above a certain relationship, the current culture ministers, then as a member of the Management Board as a prominent film production expert, commented that such a finding is contrary to the spirit of HAVC autonomy. She has now acted contrary to this proposal, so it may happen that the director creates a financial obligation by concluding the contract, that the minister refuses to make payments under the contract, which, of course, we keep in mind. What went missing to the public, the same group, the director's producer and defenders, so-called. HAVC's autonomy is now silent. He doesn't organize a bioscopic wake, under the wing that politics limits the autonomy of the film, and now they don't break down the film like they did when it was necessary to repair the public damage from the audit report. The question arises, why, because they are the calculators and politicians, because they do not want to put the minister, a colleague from the HAVC board of directors at the time, in the capacity of peers for film production. And in this political HDZ-HNS constitution, actually satisfied with the fact that through their own interested associations, and the supervision of artistic advisors and the distribution of money satisfied their primary nutritional interest. The person of the minister and the choice of all the HAVC bodies for them is an existential guarantee of continuing action in the old, independent of the letter of the law, which is actually short-sighted conduct and neglect of the fact that the political constitution is variable, and that the Ministry of Culture will not have their trustees sitting for the rest of the world and forever. Although the Independent Club for Croatia rejects this fig leaf, the law, as such because of the public, will put amendments without illusion of their acceptance in the procedure. It's just for example. The minimum we're looking for is to change the definition of a Croatian film that is not and cannot be a film created by a foreign director. The law is inadmissible to leaving and interpreting and or who is the author of Croatian film, the right to compete in most European and non-European funds in the category of national cinematography is conditioned by citizenship of directors. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I do not mean a permanent film, guarantees equality before the law, therefore some professional associations should not be brought in in Article 33, but allow all those who operate and who are yet to be realized. I'll end up with a paraphrasing... Prophecy by Yugoslav Communists achieved and after Tito Tito and after Hribar Hribar [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80993	.../Intruder Radin: yet we will do so, time has run you over by Mr Hasanbegović./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80994	And today's culture minister Your debt will continue to float uninterrupted with the Ministry of Culture [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Hasanbegović, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80995	.../Intruder Radin: one more time, and then a reminder. First warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80996	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80997	I gave you a warning because you broke the basic rule of speech, it's to stick to the time, as you saw I didn't interrupt you and I held your back, as you said, not to you, but to your freedom of opinion, your expression, and we'll talk about other things later out. Here you go. Mr. Stazic in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80998	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. If there were any doubts about the reason for writing this law, after fellow Hasanbegovic stepped forward and the doubts were completely gone, it is clear. Fear of Hasanbegovic and his associates. The attack began two years ago, slightly more than two years ago at a time when the minister was Hasanbegovic. And when it started to say that a respected minister could be a candidate for his successor. It was then that an orchestrated attack on the minister was organised, and it was precisely because of the HAVC. And then some defense associations, the loudest one was some Association of Defences of Vukovar from Zagreb, said that Mrs. Obuljen Koržinek could not be a minister. They determine who will be the minister. They stood up for Hasanbegovic because they were the same. And what are they like? That Hasanbegovic here has now clearly shown here in front of everyone. It's a man who dares here as a politician to speak of talent or the intrinsicity of film composers. It's like he's the one who can decide that. I threw him rudely out of the bench when he said he should punish Hribar, I threw him probably by shooting. And if Hasanbegovic were able, he would. This fascist speech of his is a disgrace, a disgrace to this Parliament. Shame on the HDZ on whose list he even entered this House. These amendments to the law are motivated by the minister's fear. And they are part of an orchestrated HDZ attack on independent institutions. It's been going on since the '90s. A year. HDZ and ultra-right associations, they believe they should be left with the role of political commissioners in culture. And that's what's getting into this law. You wrote in preamble, you praised the action of the film industry, and I agree with you. I think that the Croatian film industry has produced good results over the past years, not as good as in Yugoslavia when the big studio Jadranfilm was in Croatia, in Serbia it was Avala, making excellent films and doing a lot. And there were a lot of co-productions back then and in Croatia. This Jadranfilm could then be built by the Roman City, the Viking village, Egypt, in the Jadranfilm studies, they filmed films that were later rewarded with Oscar like Sofia's choice, the Tin Drum. The most famous may not be the best quality, but the most famous is the co-production of Winnetou. And then they came in 90 years and then Jadranfilm was destroyed, it was destroyed, from 300 employees fell to 80, there was privatisation, there was a sale-off, now the land is being sold out to investors to build a shopping mall, here's HDZ's activity in the audiovisual sphere. Destroy and ruin everything. It's not just the movie industry, it's all they could ruin they ruined. What was the audiovisual activity of Radiotelevision Zagreb? Today, the HRT today shows 3% of domestic film, only 3%. I remember every Monday there was a home drama, every Monday. I don't know if they make one drama a year now. The cult series, Mali and Velom too, Gruntovci, where wild boars go, in registration, Bayashi, Unruly City, Begs and Sons, Travel to Wolf, all that is gone, all that is destroyed. This HRT with this leadership set up by this HDZ is unable to record one program per year, what kind of show? The soap operas show the order of soap opera, the order of the religious programme, that is the range of HRT, which is today's culture according to the recipe of Hasanbegovic. Let's talk about the law. Article 12 financial incentives 20%, I don't know if you know that there is 25% in Serbia and Slovenia. We have to be less cultured than them, less invested by 5% less than Serbia and Slovenia? So what kind of cultural policy is that? Well, that's a shame. Article 25 is the financing from part of the total annual gross income achieved by performing audiovisual activities. Well, there's an HRT 2%, then TV publishers with a national concession of 0.8%, and then we get to the cinema player 0.1%. Mrs. Pusic spoke about it in the name of her club and said that when the law was written and it entered 0.1% that the ministry explained that it was a printing mistake because it was agreed with HAVC 1%. But if it was a printing error then why are you copying that printing error? Look out, we in Croatia have one actually commercially important cinematographer. His gross income is about a billion. Okay, now, if we refuse the income of popcorn from the sale of coke, then there's about 800 million, 800 million, and you take it or ask for the film industry, for the audiovisual activity of 0.1%. So now if you've signed off on a printing error, then we expect you to correct it by the second reading and make it at least 1%. In France, 40% of the cinematographers were taken from their profits, now it came to 14% in European countries is 4.5.6%, Croatia alone 0.1%. Because you're protecting that cinematographer? Is that the HDZ trustee, and that's how you save him? But that's how laws can't be written. Not so open. Article 35 of the Council's composition. First of all, there's something very vague about the minister. You came for the pay phone and you said there'd be 15 in the council, there's 16 indents here, saying they'd be one representative of every TV reporter with a national concession that has a general programming channel. That's two. So now we've got 16 then we'd have to be 17. Okay, so this is where you made the lapus? Okay, just so we understand what we're talking about. There is one among those 17 who has not yet been in, who is a response to your fear of attacks by right-wing associations and Hasanbegovic. You're inside introducing a representative of the Ministry of Culture. So why, so why, why etatize HAVC? Why, is there any reason for that? What's the reason for that besides that you've succumbed to these attacks and are inside introducing a representative of the state? What if he was a censor there? What's he doing there? Well, it's an institution where film workers and those who finance the film work, and that's where they meet. HAVC is the place to meet them. So what's a representative of the Ministry of Culture doing? So he has government and other instruments to control HAVC's work, as she has controlled. So very indirectly, but you have a little bit of an impact on the director's election, what do you need this for now? That was so far gone, it's a shame, it's a disgrace that's inadmissible. Look, that's the 38th of the conflict of interest. I am, in principle, why the SDP club is in principle to prevent any possible conflict of interest and to take account of it. But I think you haven't dealt with it badly, a four-year term, so there's a deputy, so now if he wants to make a movie, he doesn't have to be on the council. What bothers me a little is that one seems to me perhaps even a senseless fear that filmmakers are thieves and that their only interest is to enter into conflict of interest and steal money. Well, it's not like that, it's just not like that. This is offensive, as if it was written by Hasanbegovic who we heard how he feels about film employees. We are fortunate ministers as a state, as a nation we are fortunate that one Hasanbegovic is no longer a culture minister because if it continued to be who knows what horrors we would experience. We will support this bill in first reading as a club with these remarks that we have made and we expect that, this is a much better text than the draft bill you put into public debate. He's improved, you've listened to the comments from the public debate most of them, there are two, three things left to correct. The most important and important thing we think is that the representative of your ministry in the council, it's ruining the law, it's ruining the whole appearance of the law of the intensity of the HAVC because if someone thinks so, and you can stop HAVC then. There was no no to Minister Bishop HAVC. Well, the Ministry of Culture played that role of HAVC, it distributed money, and so if you think it should take politics completely into your own hands, then do it, and then at least it won't look like it's going to be like this to introduce the state to a small door through a council member. So respect our remarks and we will support you in your second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u80999	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81000	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I really appreciate your tolerance. When you allow fellow Stazic to speak in this way, however, Col. Stazic violated Article 238, which is evident, he demeaned and insulted other MPs and deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. At one point, he called his esteemed colleague Hasanbegovic a fascist, and I didn't hear him glorify Mussolini and his regime. I'm asking Mr. Stazic what would you do if someone told you that you... Quiet, sit tight, so be good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Please, Mr. Stazic, sit down.]] What would you do to Mr. Stazic? Unfortunately, the weather? [[/Intruder Radin: time, time. I'm afraid it's time.]] Good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81001	Unfortunately, the time is yes. If I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure and I allowed Mr. Hasanbegovic to, despite his, repeat the word, use his permanent word... which also associates for some time, I won't give a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a warning, I won't give a warning to Mr. Stazić, and in this way I will confirm what you said before that I'm being patient with this session when I lead it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we have on behalf of the proposer, Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I take my word again, for one reason only, and later, of course, we will answer all the questions that concern the law itself, and that is the question of fear. It is mentioned here that some law is passed out of fear. The programme of our government, the programme of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and our efforts from the very beginning are going towards strengthening institutions. This law is passed and proposed only to strengthen Croatian institutions, in this case the institution that was established and the system that was set up to encourage and promote Croatian film, production of Croatian film, distribution of Croatian film and thus Croatian culture. I would refer only to those issues that enter into the sphere of politics, not cultural policy, but to policy in a broader sense. I really don't understand from your presentation that the appointment of one of the 17 members of one body, who all have the same right to vote, could mean any etatization and here I must remind, for example. to the amendments to the HRT Act that were adopted during the term of office of your Government, and at that time you did not qualify it by etatizing when you changed the model of choice, for example by members of the Programme Council or by some other bodies. This is not about any etatization, and the representative of the Ministry of Culture is involved in the work of the Audiovisual Council in accordance with the associations, you must be aware that the decisions of the Croatian Audiovisual Council are made, in relation to other HAVC institutions and certain fiscal responsibility and create fiscal obligations and it is therefore very important that the work of all three bodies, namely the director, the audiovisual council and the board of directors be harmonised in a way that there are no doubts about financial obligations. The comparison of Croatian and Yugoslav films is, in my own court, extremely inappropriate. We cannot compare pears and apples and I think we can all be proud of what the Croatian film is, as one of the important works of the Croatian audiovisual industry has achieved from Croatia to today, especially during the last 10 years. As for HDZ's activity in the audiovisual sphere, I quote your words, audiovisually, HDZ action, the 2007 law, the 2011 amendment and supplement law when we introduced the incentive system, when we developed this whole model and we showed how much we actually achieved in the next 6 years. I have to remind from this pay phone that one of the problems in which the audiovisual centre was found is precisely the fact that in 2012, when the law began to be implemented, in the Ministry of Culture at the time, there was no guarantee of the funds that were communicated adequately through the handover and we actually entered into a cycle of indifference that had been dragged all over again until the following year when, as you say HDZ's action in the sphere, finally through the budget and through the budget rebalance, that long-term problem solved. Cultural incentive policy, 20% of the incentives have been introduced long before neighbouring countries, we follow what is happening and we know very well what is happening and at this point we are assessing that this incentive is sufficient, and in the opening word I have announced that we are considering some additional incentives to specifically decentralise filmmaking outside of large and recognised destinations. And I have to react to this HDZ trustee in the case of a cinema distributor. We have carefully heard comments from several parliamentary deputies, and we will consider it until the second reading. It was not a tipfeler, at the time when the law was passed and the cinema system was actually being built throughout Croatia and that was the key reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81003	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, you have one replica from Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81004	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, all said this morning by Mr Hasanbegovic, I do not need to add anything about the state of our industry, about our film industry in general, there are some defenders, so-called. culture in that cult camp... The failed system, that's where they're sitting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just remind, they're still defending that time, when there was a time of total absolute censorship, when they were promoting myths, it's still doing some titijugends here, having a jargon from... revolutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd just add that Mr. Sincic of the Living Wall and Mr. Furio Radin were then in the '60s. Mr. in that state, I'm sure Mr. Stazic and the others here would have had a violent haircut. About that, we still live on that debt and that agriprop is still going on. I don't even know if there's a serious movie made about the Homeland War, which could finance HAVC. I don't know. We're an isolated society. No, it's not time. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81005	It's time, it's time Mr. Glasnović's time and warning is not for the sake of time, but because you cannot pollemise the chairman. [[Intruding Glasnović: We have a costume from.]] That's what I've told you 100 times, while I'm sitting here, I can't be half-limed, like with Mr. Reiner or Mr. Jandrokovic. When we sit, we can say whatever we want. That's the whole story, you can't. No, good. Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please, as an individual debate, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81006	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with the Secretary of State and Associates. Well, after perhaps more emotional debates, I will unfortunately or fortunately depend on which side it is viewed, just be objective and analytical. So I'm going to run quickly, through some conditionally said conditional issues, the goal is to settle, and then my debate will be conducted solely by that idea and the idea of the best public interest. I fully understand the intensity of this bill and in relation I always like to put all actors in the process. And you're going to let me do it now and in this way analyticalally with this problem, because here is one of the important actors and the HRT that was less talked about. I personally always advocate that HRT as our public institution produces as many educational, dramatic, documentary, cultural, children's and every other programme as possible, and I'm never in favour of reducing my own production, that's my personal position and my opinion. And otherwise, I don't like to hear the data that incomes on HRT are dropping. So then I'm going to approach this problem in that sense. What matters, and now is the opportunity to approach it that way. Lately, some printed media have been pulling the contentious parts out of this thematic corps to interpret them and explaining why these parts are problematic. And maybe it's actually an ideal opportunity now, given that here is both the Minister and the Secretary of State and the Associates, to say in the discussion, and it can't just harm a better dialogue, and we see that the rather emotional discussions and the good part and ideologies here are an incorporated clearer picture of this issue. And what's important is the starting point as this area has been arranged so far. For those who are not deeper in this topic, as far as I know, and correct me if I'm wrong, the present system that had, of course, its boycotts, HRT was given all rights forever for the region of the Republic of Croatia. As for sales outside Croatia, the HRT usually contracted sales through independent producers, and why? So, unfortunately, certain HRT services weren't agile enough and they didn't have to say, conditionally speaking, interest to try and sell these projects as much as possible. And it's from one fit sad. For this reason, HRT is not comparable, for example, to those public televisions like BBC that earn enormous amounts of their own production and sales of their software content. But on the other hand, independent producers have an interest, and that's why they do it better. And what's happened so far? Well, before the new deal, and I'm gonna say something about the deal first, and then I'm gonna refer to the law. Before the agreement of the other day, signed between the Croatian Electronic Media Agency and the Croatian Independent Producers Society, HRT had about 70% of the fee, and independent producers about 30%, and now it's in reverse. And it seems to be the other way around, and as far as the manufacturing powers are concerned, that is, the sales authorisation. It was before the HRT, as I said, that I was giving independent producers, and now independent producers are giving HRT what I am directed to. This new agreement, which is the same opportunity to talk here, because it is all interlinked and the correlation agreement on the procedure and the rules for the procurement of independent producers of the works has been co-signed recently, I say. And of course, the practice has shown certain shortcomings in legislation in legal and sublegislative acts, and that is why the clearly and resolute ministry has approached this issue. Although, as I said, at the same time in the good part of the public, and even in some printed media, there are some open issues, and especially about this model, and now what has been most problematic in the public is a few parts of this agreement that are somewhat reflected in the Law, which are the issues, that I most banal, of which the independent producer according to the new proposal, is the independent producer, or independent producer, a legal person, I am now reading, registered in the Republic of Croatia for the production of audiovisual content, but there are now some additions. And what all independent producers must invest in the production of content, i.e. TV show, film, series, which on the one hand is invested by an independent producer, and what HRT invests as the other. The simplest thing is, who in the end gets more in the process? Or it's some wrong interpretation. We know European models, a few of them, and there's nothing controversial about it, but is HRT here comparable to BBC? Well, I'm afraid not. Here, for example. Some more questions. How to define the share of an independent producer if all items are incorporated into the cost of production or the financial plan of the project and when we talk about rights over content, it would not be too bad to further clarify any questions. For example, property of the project is mentioned, not the property of the project is not mentioned, I speak wrongly, but rights and that's fine. That's the exact term. But the construction says the rights return to an independent producer and then the same dilemma opens. Some have asked, does that mean HRT pays a lot of money, and the rights come back as if HRT took them for a while or is it one false interpretation. If it's the same as one of the wrong interpretations, we'll hear that HRT paid the cost of production. It's those famous 106% that were written a lot in the press. Is that an interpretation? You see, I'm looking at it the way independent producers are with us mostly small companies. They have one, two, three, five employees, and that's mostly the producer who runs that company and a few other people. And now we can ask a hypothetical question. One day, this person is no longer involved in this business, and who else does HRT extend the license? With his kids, his grandkids, his authorizeds? What if they don't want to be producers or shut down that production house or I don't know, like move out? Does this mean that HRT, then how will HRT ask someone for their rights? Itd. Those were some open questions under this agreement. In fact, the goal here would be, as soon as possible, to enable the development of independent producers, independent productions and to place it in some healthy frameworks, but also not to forget to protect public television as a social good, and I believe that it will be done because it stands in some way in the government and HRT contracts, and that is why I was actually talking about this agreement. I support the intensities, therefore, that this area which has so far really shown the need for this because it is both vague and vague and we see that this is a good way, although there is plenty of room on the road that still needs to be arranged, we have heard everything. It is important that in the term of this Government and this Ministry, a number of topics that are now being opened, which are truly unregulated and somewhat delicate, because they are involved by a lot of actors who are coordinating, and are often in collegiate in attitudes and opinions, and that is legitimate and I think that opening these issues is very necessary, and that can be done and in a way that tries to achieve the greatest consensus of all actors, although I know that it is sometimes almost and impossible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81007	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Stevo Culey. He's got it, and don't lose your right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81008	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues. It's about culture, and I realized here today that non-culture is the most profitable in the debates. Insulting their colleagues by party, ideological, cultural and all other divisions present in our society. We are talking about culture, and I am also inviting you, since you are all here, for a cultural event, I will take this opportunity, which tomorrow for the fifth time in the Croatian Parliament. So, two exhibitions related to Vukovar and three crime-related exhibitions in Borov Selo. This year's exhibition is called "A crime without Penalty", so I invite you ministers and all colleagues tomorrow at 10.00 hours to attend this cultural event uniquely in the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about our culture, I will intertwine the ideological divisions, world-famouss, cultural and non-cultural heritage, which someone has brought, acquired, or has inside him as a call. How to talk about Croatian film when we have the least Croatian films? Why don't we have Croatian films? Especially those who will show the truth about Croatian society in the right way, true, historical, especially when it comes to the Homeland War. They say, you're afraid, you're doing it out of fear. From what fear, from whom? Well, I think we've left all the time of fear behind, and we shouldn't be afraid of the present, and neither of the future, given that in the Homeland War, we've overcome all our fears, I trust all of the common enemies we've defeated in the Storm that we don't know when they'll be done. They say you're afraid, you're afraid of what? Right-wing defense organizations? What kind of right-wing organizations are these that the minister should be afraid of? Every minister should be afraid or the minister, I'm sorry, if she's hit the core of the problem or not. Those who presented us with HAVC in the past, did all they could to rock the Homeland War and were therefore greatly rewarded. We have the data here, I've already heard Mr. Hasanbegovic mention it. He says this, Predrag Licina, 3 million and 200,000 kuna, the film is called "The Last Serb in Croatia". I suggest that he made a film last brush in Croatia but he couldn't because everyone changed their coats, many today are working against the Croatian state but in other ways. And imagine how this Mr. Licchin celebrated the profit of 3 million and 200,000 kuna. Prepare yourselves, escort the Chetniks. It was his comment on 3 million and 200,000 kuna. Mr. Vice President, I will receive a warning. Expensive Licini. [[/Intruder Radin: Whose comment?]] Thank you. So also those who receive money to make films showing Croatian defenders, Croats as monster figures and will receive money from the Croatian people from the Croatian budget. And the truth about the Homeland War, not a single line. Not a minute in the movies. Why don't we make movies about Storm, Flash, Defense? Why don't we make films in crimes committed against Croatians, Croatian Catholic churches, Croatian clergy, Croatian defenders? We have from Vukovar to Dubrovnik we have examples as much as we want, but no, we will not show it in Croatian films or in Croatian culture because it is not advanced, it is lagging, it makes the division and does not make the division of what some have brought from the past system and cannot give up Tito, Bate Živojinović and others... from those times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are talking about culture and there is no culture other than the one that offends the Croatian man, the Croatian being. Massacre in the Court of the Union, showing Croatian defenders as murderers, funded by our HAVC. And these films go to Europe, to the world, where they show the Croats in the same way that Savo Strbac or some of our culture or some of our politicians from the Croatian Parliament who call us right-wings, fascists, neofascists or how otherwise. Without me going into their culture or history, so we can get some information about them or their pasts, which we'll do at some of the press conferences that I'll do in the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, I invite you tomorrow to an exhibition dedicated to the death of 12 directors in Borovo Selo and other crimes committed in Croatia at the time of the Homeland War, especially this year 2018, is specific to the crime of a continuous hundred-year-old, from 1918 to 2018, from the first crime of Grga Angelinović in Ban Jelačić Square to Borov Sela and to this day unpunished crimes still and we will make a film about it as Croatian defenders, we will propose to you in one of our projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81009	Mr. Culey, we checked in the meantime. What you said was incorrect, Mr. Licina replied with the words "Get ready, get ready", very undefined, so please, please. So I'm just saying that you're commenting on something that has nothing to show for it. No one mentioned the Chetniks. Just for the truth. I'm sorry, no one mentioned the word to the Chetniks. Let's move on, final word, Mrs. Nina Ossuzen Koržinek, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of this debate, I would like to thank the representatives of all clubs and everyone who participated in the debate. We will try to do another reading of all your suggestions and those we can respect. A few final comments, we, in this review of the success of the Croatian film, have abstained from any indication of any individual name, so here I somehow think that in light of these some discussions should, however, refrain from stating the data that outside the context can always give a second picture. Given that, just before my presentation, there was Mr. Culey's exposure, Agent Culei, I would only briefly refer to the fact that at this moment, the HAVC's means of making a film about General Gotovina. There have been movies about the Homeland War, but we must be aware that neither the Ministry of Culture in other areas of the creative industries is one that can order topics, and the same with HAVC, therefore always depends on what directors and producers propose, but as an extremely commendable one, I think it is necessary to highlight the HAVC and HRT initiative based on one of the many and best films on the Homeland War, number 55 which is actually based on a special competition for the best scenario on the Homeland War topic. But now to return to the issues of the law, so the governance structure, I am pleased to recognize that the effort to increase the criteria for all, to appoint all management structures of HAVC, and we have heard the proposal regarding the alignment of transitional and final provisions, deadlines, alignment with new criteria, and we will consider that. As for the audiovisual council, we are pleased to be recognised as a good reduction in the appointment of members of the audiovisual council to 2 years. I must point out here that in every area of culture, when we come to the question of who decides on financing and who are members of these bodies, without exception we come to the problem of conflict of interest and how to regulate this conflict of interest and to maintain the principle that the profession decides on the profession. We are a small market and it is very difficult to find individuals, people who have sufficient professional competences, who will be able to meet all the high criteria and all the suggestions that have come in this sense, we will consider them. As for the contribution of the filmmakers, Article 25, we will consider it until the next reading and do another round of consultations, the issue of conflict of interest, I have commented. It was observed in the debate, and I will once again say that because of this possible conflict of interest, and since it is about direct appointments of associations to the Croatian audiovisual council that the ministry only confirms, the institute of deputies is introduced. It's not a choice for four anymore. It's two years. I'm glad you noticed that we're introducing a model, a principle of self-regulation and the possibility of self-regulation and co-regulation. It is an institute that is encouraged in general by European, audiovisual and media legislation and we believe that it needs to be used as much as possible in Croatia to make sure that the standards of mutual regulation between the most important stakeholders are raised. As regards incentives, we will discuss during this period, so Articles 12 to 13 as I have announced, as well as the additional possibility of greater encouragement and more ambitious promotion of those film productions that will be recorded in less developed Croatian areas. The debate was also about HRT, about the role of HRT in this eco system. I must say, this is not just about this direct contribution to HAVC through funding. HAVC and HRT support a whole series of co-productions, however, it is extremely important that HRT consistently implements a provision of a minimum 15% of the independent production budget because it will be another additional incentive for the growth of our audiovisual industry, and when more is recorded when there are greater possibilities, of course there is a higher quality. In this sense, this co-regulatory agreement signed by independent television producers and the HRT should also be read, however, and this entire system of audiovisual activities that we regulate through this law is directly interested in determining, on the one hand, what budget it is and then consistently applying this quota of a minimum 15%, which we know is actually growing on successful European radiotelevision services. It won't weaken HRT, it'll weaken exactly the opposite. It will bring more quality and innovation, more creative programs that will then attract more viewers to HRT. Representative Petriyevcanin also said something about intellectual property. Indeed, the issue of regulating secondary rights is related to the ability of independent television producers to report on international incentives programmes, such as the media programme, but this is now getting pretty deep into another topic. In the end, I would still refer to two comments. One issue is the single digital market and the absence of digitalisation issues in this law. I have to admit, I'm not quite clear on how much more of that should have been involved. Namely, the revision of the audiovisual media directive and the revision of the law package, the Directives governing intellectual property and copyrights are taking place within the Digital Single Market. The Ministry of Culture through its coordination, the European coordination that we have actually formed, which includes all stakeholders of the process. Therefore, the State Institute for Intellectual Property, the Council for Electronic Media, that is, the Agency and representatives of key associations, HRT, directors' associations, producers, independent television producers, actually formulate the views of the Republic of Croatia on issues currently being regulated at EU level in the package, amendments to regulations and approaches on the Digital Single Market, we know that there are major recommendations on certain directives concerning cross-border broadcasting, country issues of origin, but we are deeply concerned with all topics and we are keeping in mind that possible amendments to European legislation do not jeopardise those principles that we have incorporated into our laws, and to protect and encourage Croatian national production and distribution. In the end, I would only refer to one of the comments from the club debate, which is that I quote "The Audivisual Production flourished and disappeared" cannot accept such a finding. In 2017, 190 million in Croatia entered consumption as a result of the promotion of investment in production. This year is the first cinema distribution of a Croatian film in the United States in more than 30 kuna. The Croatian film was first taken over and bought to show on the Netflix platform, one Croatian series supported by HAVC development, which was ordered by HRT sold to global Netflix several weeks ago. Croatia's minority co-production this year is in distribution in China. Belgium's national television has bought out a Croatian series, which was also ordered by HRT. This year, 16 films started, so I think we can all be satisfied together, so I would say even proud of what Croatian creators and producers directors, all those involved in the creation of films are doing to promote our cultural and creative industry, but of course our culture as a whole. I thank you again for all the debates, we will try very quickly to consider all these proposals, we will make another round of consultations with the associations, and then we will then send this House of the High to debate an improved final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81011	Thank you, Madam Minister. There were no replicas. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, which means Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81012	Proposal for a Law on Audiovisual Activities, First Reading, P.Z. Number 319, Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Audiovisual Activities is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for, 6 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81013	And now the next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law on the capital market, first reading, P.Z.E. number 321. Since we have speeded up the debate, and the minister has a duty to hear, we continue the debate at 1200 hours. It's 11:00.38. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.02 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative, Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here I will try briefly although this is from the Department of Finance's biggest, most extensive law that I think we've ever presented, and at the same time I think we could compare it with someone else, so we're talking about the 739 article law, so I'm going to try as much as I can count the most important things in this opening statement. Therefore, this new law transposes into Croatian legislation a total of 15 directives and allows for the implementation of 9 regulations. The most important reason for the creation of the Capital Market Act is, however, a new so-called MiFID II Directive, i.e. the Financial Instrument Markets Directive, which brings numerous innovations for all participants in the capital market. The 2008 financial crisis revealed I would say a number of weaknesses in the functioning of the transparency of financial markets and are therefore in May 2014. The European Parliament and the Council of the EU adopted that MiFID II Directive and the Market Regulations of Financial Instruments or so on. MiFir regulations. The aim of the new rules is to make financial markets more efficient, more resilient and transparent, i.e. to increase investor confidence, to reduce the risk of market disturbances, to reduce systemic risk, to increase the efficiency of financial markets and to reduce unnecessary costs for participants. The new MiFID II Directive and MiFIR Regulation replace existing MiFID I. As regards key developments in several main pillars, on the one hand, the scope of regulated trading platforms and instruments is increased. A large part of the trade is currently carried out outside the trading venue defined in MiFID I to so-called. over the counter base. It's based on internal, unregulated brokerage platforms. Also, MiFID I rules were limited trading exclusively to shares, i.e. prevents the efficiency of the price formation process for a large number of financial instruments. MiFID II shall ensure that investment firms operating an internal multilateral stock trading system or similar shares must be registered as an authorised multilateral trading platform. For financial instruments other than shares, that means derivatives, bonds, structured investment products and similar MiFID II, introduces a new category of trading platform or an organised trading platform. The new trading venue is quite wide-ranging, i.e. everything that is multilateral and not a stock market or a multilateral trading platform so that all forms of organised trade which do not have functions or regulatory specifications of existing trading venues can also be covered. So the goal is that overall organised trading takes place in order places and completely transparent, both before and after trading. The biggest change will take place in the trading of derivatives. MiFID II requires that certain standardised derivatives be traded on regulated platforms. It is estimated that up to 70% of derivatives currently traded by OTC or over the counter markets could be transferred to a regulated market. The consequence of these changes is that the extended regulatory from MiFID and with 6 thousand financial instruments estimated at more than 100 thousand will greatly improve trade transparency and contribute to effective price formation. Under 2. increases trade transparency, MiFID II extends transparency requirements to a greater number of financial instruments compared to MiFID and including so-called ‘T’. ayuity like instruments, bonds and structured financial instruments as well as derivatives that meet certain conditions. Operators of trading platforms will be obliged to publish the current prices of financial instruments traded and, of course, the amount of interest. Given the significant expansion of trade on regulated trading platforms, the transparency of trading in the EU-wide capital market will increase. The efficiency of data delivery is also increased under 3. One of the problems in MiFID 1 was the lack of quality and standardisation in trading data, making it difficult to consolidate data and reducing efficiency. MiFID II prescribes a standardised format and content and a list of information that must be published. MiFID II also regulates more efficient trading data delivery. In the new regulatory framework, a special legal person previously licensed by the regulator will collect data on trading outside the regulated markets. Then these stock exchanges and other platforms will send to another licensed legal person who will consolidate and publish them for each of the financial instruments. Finally, data are supplied to regulators with a purpose of risk monitoring and potential market manipulation. The 4th objective is to reduce trade costs. The European Commission has pointed out that the costs of access to trade in the EU are unnecessarily high and significantly higher than those in the United States, therefore the European Commission has set a delegated regulation as an add-on to the MiFID II directive, which prescribes that data providers should establish their fees on the basis of their own costs and thus provide them with a reasonable margin based on factors such as operating profit, reimbursement, return on costs, return on operational assets and return on capital. In order to enable data users and competent authorities to effectively assess whether market data is provided on a reasonable and commercial basis, it is prescribed that all relevant conditions for their provision should be made public. Data providers should therefore publish information on their use for determining their costs. A single alphanumeric code is introduced for participants in the capital market. All legal entities dealing with financial transactions will be allocated a single alphanumeric code of 20 characters. Without this code, participants will not be able to access the EU capital market. This code plays a key role in the new MiFID II regime, trade data reporting and labour support, market surveillance regulators including market abuse detection and market participants risk assessment. Under 6 an algorithmic trading is regulated, it is arranged in such a way that one of the identified sources of risk of efficient functioning of the capital market and prescribes regulatory requirements for companies trading through algorithms. Under 7, market abuse is ensured. The new Capital Market Act shall ensure the direct application of the Market Abuse Regulation in such a way as to define HANFA as a competent authority and its powers and supervisory measures. This part of the law refers to all legal and natural persons who act against regulated trade prohibitions on the basis of privileged information on the illegal publication of privileged information and market manipulation. News is being introduced in the part of investor protection, on several grounds. First, changes in investment consultation are being introduced, the quality of information given to clients is improved. When providing an investment consulting or portfolio management service, the investment firm is obliged to assess whether the services and financial instruments are suitable for the client, in particular whether they are in line with the client's willingness to take risks and its ability to bear losses. The improved product management, the investment company which produces, develops, issues or designs an investment product intended for sale to customers is obliged to establish and apply, periodically review the procedures which are approved within the company by each individual investment product as well as significant changes and adjustments to the existing investment product before the product is placed on the market and distributed to customers. In addition, the manufacturer is obliged to examine the product regularly taking into account all events which may significantly affect the potential risk identified... Markets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] MiFIR further allows regulators to prohibit the distribution of certain products if they assess significant risks to investors. Also, additional incentives are being regulated. ... prescribes that an investment firm may provide or receive an additional incentive only if the conditions are met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This additional incentive is designed to improve the quality of related services provided to the client. The additional incentive does not jeopardise the obligation of an investment firm to act in the best interests of the client, correctly and in accordance with the rules of the profession and before providing the customer is clearly stated in a precise and understandable manner that there is an additional incentive related to a particular service, nature and amount or quantity of additional incentives, and if the amount or quantity cannot be determined, the way in which the additional incentive can be determined. And finally, it defines independent advice. ... It provides that investment firms must inform their clients whether their advice is provided on an independent basis and whether the advice is based on a broad or limited analysis of different types of financial instruments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] ESMA, therefore, prescribes at EU level that companies offering independent advice must carry out a selection process offering a fair and appropriate comparison of different financial instruments. This must not be affected by any interest that a company or employees may have in relation to a particular financial instrument. If no comparison of financial instruments is possible, the company cannot claim to be independent. As regards the other amendments, supervision of issuers whose securities are included in the regulated market shall be introduced. HANFA will become a supervisory body for the financial information of the issuer. If they are drawn up in accordance with the relevant framework for financial reporting and give appropriate supervisory measures. Also, a framework for the rehabilitation of central deposits based in the Republic of Croatia has been prescribed. HANFA is intended as a resolution body, and the procedure, resolution instruments, HANFA powers and safeguard measures are prescribed. As a result of the costs, no recovery fund is established, but an additional recovery tool is introduced according to which HANFA has the power to invite participants of the central depository to a one-time payment up to a maximum of three million kunas proportionally distributed between the participants, and given the amount of the instructions made by those participants over the last year. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the new Capital Market Act brings numerous news and improvements to the functioning of the transparency of financial markets. In relation to the participants of our capital market, it sets out certain technical and organisational requirements, primarily as regards the promotion of information support, transparency of transactions related to different financial instruments, the quality of trade systems, and the education of sales staff related to the supply of products to clients. Mo here we're talking, of course, about first reading. I will repeat my words from the beginning of the opening address itself. So, we're talking about one really comprehensive law, 739 articles, so even today's debate, and, of course, all possible potential amendments, any parent committees, whether through debates within clubs or individually, will be welcome and we will, of course, be willing to consider them. We've been working for a long time, and here with me is the assistant minister in charge amongst other things, and for the financial system, along with his team who have worked really hard for the past few months. Of course, it should also be mentioned by colleagues and colleagues from HANFA who, as well as in general, I would say, the professional and interested public who participated in this big bill. And I do that when the Croatian Parliament passes, I hope and is voted in the Croatian Parliament, there is, of course, one major challenge in front of all of us in that segment, and that is the implementation of such a comprehensive law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81016	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81017	Dear Ministers of Finance, my question concerns the banking system. I am interested, there are data that currently in the Croatian financial system we have 22 banks and the National Bank's plan is that these 22 banks are reduced to only 10 banks. I am interested in what is the point of monopolisation in this direction of the financial system and the second question is the Ethics Bank has submitted a request for registration to the CNB. They refused to register the Ethics Bank, and we know that in the EU ethical banks are definitely a trend to be supported and to be registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81018	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81019	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your questions and your comments. I have to answer that both the first and second parts should really be directed only and exclusively towards the CNB, then it is an independent regulator and an institution that implements independently on any influences of monetary policy, including, of course, the supervisory policy of the banking system. Among other things, this Act does not aim as a Capital Market Act and is not exclusively focused on credit institutions or banks. One part of their business certainly covers, but in some kind of globally sure as hell not. However, I will answer you in this section. I think all the institutions of this country, and so the CNB should take care of the banking system of course. I am not familiar with this information which you are saying is that there is some sort of reduction plan but certainly that, taking into account all the circumstances of the Croatian economy and a rather long-term recession that lasted and some other challenges, some of the banks face some challenges, but that is, above all, only in the HNB's authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81020	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81021	Dear Minister, I listened to your exposure and I think well that you have set up regulatory and this system of balance and verification and what happened in 2008 at a global level when investment banks have totally destroyed the global system financially and that is a good thing but I wonder, we are almost insignificant part of that global market. I'm more interested in the investment climate in Croatia? For those greenfields investments. Is that improving? Do we have statistics? You were talking about saving. Secured savings, they had government shares and to what level these government shares are invested in protected and these are issues. What are the safe investments in this market for Croatian consumers?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81022	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81023	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I think that you well apostropheed the situation in 2008 when, of course, much was discovered in a way that in the global financial system, various and manipulations and perhaps not ultimately good intentions were materialized, so that the crisis of the financial system was spilled across the economy, from the most developed, economically most developed to the least developed economies in terms of countries and regions. So we don't think we should repeat these lessons. Whether this is a good direction to go between the EU and the EU, I personally think that the regulatory framework should be strengthened. Of course, there's always that limit on whether or not we're going to go too far in terms of over-nodging to reduce some kind of activity. But this second part of your exposure certainly needs to be all together not only within this law but also in a number of other activities, which is to strengthen the investment climate and general climate in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81024	Thank you. And Mr. Lovrinović at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81025	Dear Mr. Maric, the question arises at all why are the laws of market capital and what is the market for capital in Croatia? You're a doctor of the economy so you don't need anyone to explain to you, but how do you build a capital market in an environment of enormous indifference when the money market is underdeveloped? So you're building a roof house here and a fundamental postulate in the economy that if the non-equivocal relations in the economy, the capital market can't succeed. So this is about the Zagreb Stock Exchange as one mill on the stream that spins down that wheel and there's no grain for the mill, right? And on the other hand, by looking at our judicial system as it works, then all that you are now introducing financial derivatives and you are using one sadly ugly word, derivatives, I suggest you either introduce a derivative or a nice Croatian word derivative, release the derivatives, that's oil, so can you tell what the capital market is like?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81026	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81027	Thank you very much. Dear representative, esteemed professor, therefore, yes, thank you for your notice, we'll use the term pronunciation. One piece of course I can agree with you, we are looking at trading on the Zagreb Stock Exchange today and, in general, on the capital market, the actual amount of daily traffic, and the general trade is very small. However, this should not lead us all together from the normisation and implementation of certain and EU regulations and directives that will improve, of course, and when, I sincerely hope and believe deeply in the due time, soon actually revitalises and revives that trading on the capital market because it certainly has a perspective. You mentioned the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Zagreb Stock Exchange in the recent past has had some acquisition activities around the region, it can certainly be the point that will not only develop the capital market but the capital market that will contribute stronger and greater to the overall economic growth in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81028	Thank you, too. Does the rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is Mr. Nikola Grmoy in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81029	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As the Government itself states in its assessment of the situation and what will arise from the adoption of the same law, it is evident that after 7 changes in order to bring the EU acquis into line with key preconditions for the integration of the financial market into the single market of EU Member States and the key and element of this law is so called. MiFID II Directive. The law itself shows the desire to restore investor confidence in the capital market. Also changing the rules for financial markets wants to protect investors through more frequent customer reporting, presentation of all the investment investment costs involved, ensuring the most favourable enforcement for clients, communication records as well as keeping business documentation. Furthermore, due to the stricter requirements relating to telephone electronic communication with the client and the basis of the new personal data protection regulation, it remains to see if the entities from the capital market will start rerouting clients to their e-commerce systems. What should also be mentioned is that MiFID II prescribes the organisational responsibilities of the management and management bodies of investment firms and that third country investment entities in EU capital markets must establish a branch. In particular, the rights and obligations of participants in the capital market in the area of the prohibition of trade on the basis of privileged information, the illegal publication of privileged information and market manipulation are regulated. It should also be added that higher reporting obligations are required for the European Securities Supervisor, and that measures and sanctions that can be taken against legal and physical participants in the capital market have been tightened. The law also provides for the introduction of a trading platform for the growing market of small and medium-sized enterprises through which they could easily raise capital for the development of investment. MiFID II Directive will have a more significant impact on the business, behaviour and management of companies in Europe and it opens up many strategic issues for the investment management industry. MiFID II prohibits discretionary asset management and independent counselling, direct challenge to business models and pressure on asset management revenues. Furthermore, MiFID II significantly improves operational requirements, market structures, reporting and governance, as well as improvements in regulatory supervision, in order to prevent abuse leading to a financial crisis in 2018. Unfortunately, we are now experiencing key problems of this law and some questions that must be asked by Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. First question, how much will all these investment companies cost? About a year ago, it was estimated that the adjustment to the new regulation would cost European investment companies 2.5 billion euros, recently the German central bank warned that only their banks had allocated more than a billion euros to adapt to the new directive. The second question is, why were we not already ready for the implementation of Law 1.1.2018, which we were obliged to pay and what kind of penalty do we pay for each day not implementing it? And the third question, is the unpreparedness of the HAMFE actually the cause that we haven't implemented this before? The proposal of the Capital Market Act significantly extends and tightens the capital market regulation, the HAMFA gets greater powers, let's hope that it accepts even greater responsibilities, we hope that there will be no arguments we did not know, nor were we obliged to know, as was the case with the guarantees of the Agrokor Group and the illegal emissions of money with the Eskont of customs without cover. The law has 739 articles and will have to pass a large number of sublegal acts that we hope will not be late and that we will not have to bear sanctions due to delays. The law is in line with the regulations and directives of the European Parliament, which should provide additional forms of protection for investors on the capital market, i.e. to provide at least a subjective sense of security. The fact is that because of the open market and the possibility of providing services through digital platforms by intermediaries and tenderers who do not have a branch or branch office in the Republic of Croatia, this law will make it difficult to control such providers that operate exclusively online. Who will protect investors from themselves and sit on various tempting offers by suspicious bidders who do not inform potential investors enough or care enough about the suitability, suitability of certain services to potential clients? The issue remains also open, regardless of the comprehensive draft law implementing the EU Regulations and Directive, who will protect investors in cases where their shares become worthless by a government commissioner's decision on Agrokor? Small shareholders did not participate in the decision-making of the administration, nor did they sign the guarantees of the companies... that exceed the value of the asset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No law seems to protect them from unfair practices and discretionary decisions under the Law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies, of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, etc. lex Agrocor. They are left with only a long-standing legal battle, but we will certainly get the answer that it is not in the domain of this law, but in the domain of lex specialis, i.e. lex Agrokor itself. As far as the capital market itself is concerned, it has died in Croatia, the Income Tax Act is taxed on the stock market by 12% of income tax + belonging to the tax, natural persons, investors is a complicated procedure for filling forms, calculating trading according to the FIFO method, etc. The introduction of that obligation from 1.1.2016 draws investors and it was an additional nail in the coffin of any slow economic activity in the country. How do you expect investor activity and the growth of shares and the capital market when they are made more difficult by the tax repressive economy anyway? The economy which, given its neighbours, has almost the highest income tax rates, profits, capital, etc. How will things develop since the proposed law imposes additional obligations and costs on investment companies and how many will survive on the market? The cost of compliance with the law does not equal the burden of small companies or large companies that are part of or are private companies of the daughters of large financial institutions. The question also, how will the HAMFA deal with all this? Will it bring legal acts in time, will it enable appropriate and appropriate adjustments to investment companies, as well as all participants in the capital market, or will they begin to punish and close small and medium-sized ones? Will a sensitive situation put his head in the sand again, as was the case in the Agrokor affair? Dear Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81030	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, Mr. Ivan Pernar. Here you go, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81031	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I was a small investor on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. I traded my own shares so I can say in some ways that I know a little bit about the capital market from a small shareholder's perspective. The HDZ government once long ago at the time of today's hated Ivo Sanader said it was against the introduction of a capital gains tax, the introduction of dividend taxes and real estate taxes. Today's HDZ government has made that U turn, or a complete turn. Instead of objecting to the capital gains tax, he introduces and implements the tax as well as the dividend tax while he says he has not given up on him and will introduce him. This tells you that HDZ's policy has no credibility. The introduction of capital gains tax and dividends led to the collapse of the stock market, you can see for yourself. The Zagreb Stock Exchange has been in total disintegration and destruction since 2007, the eighth year. Instead of conducting a policy that is geared to the stock market or to the capital market that facilitates trade, which also abolishs the capital gains tax and the HDZ dividend implements the opposite policy burdening such a type of participation in the capital market. On the other hand, we have one problem on the other hand, the problem is that institutions don't function. Recently, I saw a headline on the Internet, a portal reportedly had been lurking with reports since 2006. What does that mean? That means that for 12 years, we haven't really known what the value situation is in Agrokor's companies. Why does it matter? It is important because state pension funds invest the money of Croatian citizens that they should receive in the form of pensions in Agrokor's companies, and Agrokor's companies as you all know their assets will be aligned with zero or hundreds of millions of kunas, respectively, will evaporate. And that problem is obvious, it's visible, the pensioners will bear the price. And what needs to be done in any case is that since pension funds are mandatory, it means that citizens are forced to invest in them that at least the companies in which pension funds invest should push them under the jurisdiction of the State Audit. Why? Well, it's because it's a potential huge damage to the citizens. And not just for that reason, but for one more reason, and it is that not only do we have a situation that the state buys or that compulsory pension funds buy shares, let's say Agrokor, but we have another situation, which is that the state bank HBOR and investment gives credit to Agrokor without inadequate guarantees. Someone will say that the state does not finance Agrokor, let's see if the mandatory pension funds are pushing hundreds of millions and billions into Agrokor, if the state pours hundreds of millions of kunas through HBOR credit banks into Agrokor, and it is obvious that there must be control over Agrokor himself because if there is no control, it is possible that the data that we are being made public in Agrokor's reports that they do not correspond to the truth. And as far as these audit houses are concerned, let's see if their opinion is adequate, so why at all is the State Audit, then let's say that any political party in the House is subject to the State Audit. Then we or all the other parties could simply hire some private house that deals with the audit, pay some money, and they give you a report whatever you want. So there's a reason there's a State Audit. However, as I explained, the State Review deals with small entities, deals with parties, foreigners, deals with every school, institution, etc., but with a huge concert that employs 60,000 people, who have no idea 60 billion kuna debts that this State Audit doesn't interest. So we have a gap regarding our capital market, or holes in multiple sides. I'm talking about holes that were deliberately made by the legislator. So these holes I listed, on the one hand, there is a capital gains tax and dividend that should definitely be abolished, on the other hand there is no control of State audit on entities that the state finances either through HABOR or through compulsory pension funds and on the third hand, this is now also, of course, the key part of the trinity, this is a catastrophic monetary and tax policy in general. So when you have a monetary policy with high interest rates and high taxes with low inflation rates it's called economical, restrictive monetary policy. You can, say, increase the inflation rate a little, and then cut interest and taxes. Such a policy leads to stronger economic growth leads to better development, so to speak, economies, full employment, growth in capital markets, etc. So through monetary policy, through high interest rates and high taxes, we are generally focused against economic growth, that means that there is simply no capital gains because companies don't grow value, no new companies are opened that would be listed on the stock market. On the other hand, what little is left, which has not already failed or been shut down, and every little is deleted already existing companies from the stock market, to what little is left is still accounted for by these taxes that I have listed on capital gains and dividends, and on the third hand, what is crucial So there is no control of state audits over large state-funded entities. I don't think this Capital Market Act that's on the table of these three problems I've mentioned is going to solve. And if he won't solve those three problems, and I explained that these are key problems for every small and big investor, for every pensioner, for the state as such. Because that's what my colleague Sincic said, when you have a situation where 2,000 people or 3, 4, 5 don't get paid in some big company, a big situation threatens national security. So in the same way this policy that your government is implementing, the HDZ is also jeopardizing the capital market, and therefore the property of citizens, their well-being. If the state is planning to do anything about it, it's an enigma now. According to these legal proposals, I don't see any quality shifts in that direction and what makes me particularly sad is the inability of you who are advocates to replicate me. So a Rules of Procedure has been made in which I can present some thesis, you may agree or disagree with them, but to me, Mr. Maric cannot replicate and the word Mr. Pernar is not true that we want to introduce a tax on real estate or it is not true that there is a tax on capital gains or dividends. So I can tell you anything here, I can say that aliens attack Croatia tomorrow, no one can replicate and say Mr. Pernar, you're talking nonsense, for example. And that's a serious problem. So you're not only running the wrong policy in terms of economics, but you've actually muffled this debate, suppressed it, I'd say even killed it. We can't actually argue here, we're trading in for a pay phone one by one and holding monologues. And then a monologue for a monologue, everyone talks about their own, and now what? Someone who's a citizen, who's looking at it, what conclusion can he draw? Very hard. Why? Because there was no conflict of opinion. And Parliament should be the place where opinions face each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81032	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, respected many colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's almost 100 times more articles in this law than there are representatives in the Parliament. A law that deals with a very interesting topic, with which many people often like to ball and throw inside, but now that the law has finally come to the agenda and when Article 4 clearly defines what this law applies and who this law does not apply and when it sets out everything in detail, from the words, and so on, I would, if I were to go now, read the concept book just for this 15 minutes as long as I have in the name of the club. Allow me, despite the fact that this law is practically defined by the EU directive and regulation, some things still need to be pointed out. First, this regulation and the directive came about as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis from the end of 2008 and 2009 which rocked the world and also Croatia. It's very interesting that the light of day directive was only seen in 2014. So it took practically 5 years to analyse and determine where certain legislative gaps and holes have been used by many and ultimately what may have been in a certain way and conditioned certain things that were happening in the financial crisis, and therefore let's not be surprised if the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is just now practically proposing this law. Because if you look at the materials, I know it's hard to read 566 pages and all the accompanying materials you have so you can see what the interested public said, the workshops that were carried out by the HAMFA, the Banks' Association to come to the final text of the law, then we'll understand why this is like this. Another thing that needs to be said here clearly, which is that the capital market in the Republic of Croatia is as it is and there is nothing the government can do about it. The government can't encourage someone to trade, get on the market, everything. The government is doing what it can, and that's the legislative framework. So the Capital Market Act is just a prerequisite for something to happen. Otherwise, I told this story about Vodenica and Zita in this assembly sometime in 2002 when we discussed a report, but the fact is that in the past 15 years there have been several major transactions and several major listings on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, but it is also a fact that all those dealing with this area have clearly said that after the last transactions that took place in the Zagreb Stock Exchange, unfortunately if something radically doesn't change in the Croatian economy, the capital market in Croatia will remain at this level at which it is. Unfortunately, growth did not occur, but the end of 2008 saw an economic crisis. However, it should also be said here that the financial sector of Croatia came out of this financial and economic crisis compared to what was happening in the world quite intact. So these are simply facts that we can't escape from or should run away from, but I repeat, because of some of the discussions that were here today, it would be good to read the article. 4 and let us see who this law applies to, to whom the law does not apply, so that those of whom we speak may be placed there by those of the laws which it is. However, what I want to expire on behalf of the HDZ Club, here today, before I touch concrete things, which is an extremely important role, an independent regulator, which is HANFA. It's an extremely important role. Because if HANFA does not do its job, it can bring you a thousand and one law and if it does not act in due time, we will not achieve what the legislator wants to do with this bill and ultimately what the EU Council wanted to do. However, let's start with order, so market infrastructure, MiFID2 ensures that investment firms operating an internal multilateral stock trading system and similar shares must be registered as an authorised multilateral trading platform. For financial instruments other than shares, bonds, professional investment products, a new category of trading platform is introduced, i.e., an organised trading platform, a new trading venue is quite broadly arranged, all of it is multilateral and it is not a stock market or something else. In order to cover, now and in the future, all forms of organised trade implementation, which do not have a function or regulatory specifications of existing trading venues. In addition, MiFID 2 retains and system internalisers are companies that trade for their account with customers outside the regional market, MiFID 1 included certain qualitative criteria for determining whether the company and many investment companies that carried out this type of trade were not found in the definitions and were bypassing the regulation. And that's what I was saying when I said that it took the EU practically five years to analyze what happened to bring this directive forward. MiFID 2 provides quantitative criteria for determining where the company is, and defines, as an investment company, which in an organised and systematic manner, and trading to a significant extent for its own account, when fulfilling the client's orders above the regulated market. Is it about trade on a common and constitutional basis, whether it is about trade on a significant basis. What is very important is that this directive increases, which is transparency and reporting. MiFID 2 thus extends transparency requirements to a number of financial instruments compared to MiFID 1, including instruments, bonds and structural financial products, as well as derivatives that meet certain conditions. Operators, trading platforms and system internalisers will be obliged, as in MiFID1, to publish the current prices of financial instruments traded and the amount of interest given the significant expansion of trade coverage and regulated trading platforms, to increase the transparency of trading in the capital market. In addition, MiFID 1 data delivery created competition with classical stock exchanges in such a way as to enable the creation of a multilateral trading platform, which increased competition and reduced some trading costs. However, this change caused data fragmentation, so market participants had to collect data in several places, making it difficult for trade to be efficient. So much for that, when I talk about it, what it's going to cost the investment company. But in order to get all the data, to get all the data, then someone has to prepare it, someone who has to pay, and the logical thing is that it costs someone, like any other activity, that's done, and so is this. The cost of accessing trade data, the European Commission pointed out that the costs of accessing EU trade data, unnecessarily high, compared to the US MiFID1 required that trade data be made available to the public in real time at a reasonable commercial basis and where they must be free of charge, 15 minutes after publication. However, there is still a need to improve this aspect of the capital market in MiFID2 because MiFID1 failed to reduce costs, to an optimal level. Therefore, the European Commission has laid down a delegated regulation as an add-on to MiFID2, MiFID2 Directive, which provides that the data provider should establish its own fees on the basis of its own costs and allow them to benefit from the development margin, on the basis of factors such as operational goods and reimbursement of costs, return from operational assets and return on capital. In order to enable data users and competent authorities to make an effective assessment of the provision or market data on a reasonable commercial basis, it is prescribed that all relevant conditions for their provision should be made public. Data providers must therefore publish information on their fees, content and the data market, and the cost accounting methodology used to determine their costs. Technological development has also introduced a new trade and it is an algorithmic trade and it is particularly clarified and processed in this law. What is most important in the protection of MiFID2 investors introduces greater protection of investors, tailored specificities of each category of investors, investors, small investors, professional investors and qualified trustees. Therefore, the investment company may give or receive an additional incentive, only if the following conditions are met: the additional incentive is designed to improve the quality of the related service provided to the client. The additional incentive does not jeopardise the investment company's obligation to act in the best interests of the client, in particular in accordance with the rules of the profession. It is not clear to the client that there is an additional incentive related to a particular service, nature and amount or quantity of additional incentives if the amount or quantity cannot be determined in a way to identify an additional incentive. The investment firm shall have the obligation to keep records of all fees, fees and not of the financial benefits received by the investment firm by a third party in relation to the provision of investment or ancillary services. Changes in investment consultation, improvement and quality of information given to clients, investment advice is to make personal recommendations to the client, either at the request of the client or at the investment company's initiative in relation to one transaction or more of them relating to financial instruments. The novelty is that when providing services, investment advice or portfolio management, the investment firm must assess whether services and financial instruments are suitable for the client, and in particular whether they are in line with customer willingness, not taking risks and its ability to bear losses. First of all, I think that the change in investment counselling is, first of all, up to me to say a favor and to the welfare of small investors. Because they probably don't have that much knowledge, they don't have that much information, they don't have that much knowledge, and that's why it's very important how it's going to be and how it's going to be. MiFID II also provides that investment firms must inform their clients of whether their advice is provided on an independent basis and whether the advice is based on a broad, limited analysis of different types of financial instruments. So, colleagues and colleagues, I have tried to extract some of the things that are important to me for the general public on behalf of the HDZ Club, because that expert public will certainly give of one of our debates nothing but to make an effort to read this law and to see from it what interests him. Only one proposal may be made to the legislator in view of the size of the law, its size given the number of chapters, given the number of sections and the fact that the chapters and sections are related to certain very important provisions of this law. It might be good to start with one as content, as well as on which page are these individual sections and chapters with their names because I say when you read it then it is very clear that in the next few articles you can find what you are interested in and on that side the law is technically excellently made, excellently made. This is only one help to those who will use it to cope. It is easier to find on maybe 3 or 4 pages what you are interested in rather than list these 566 pages as far as this law has. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. And Mr. Minister, we're glad he finally saw the light of day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81034	I thank Mr. Shuker. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP when we talk about this law, we absolutely consider it to be a very important law, an important document that is good for us to adopt and, as a colleague before me has said, the law is very large, contains 739 articles, regulates very complex matter and implements Directive 214/65/EU so-called MiFID II and Regulation 602/14 which replaces the original MiFID I Directive. In addition to these two legal acts, the law covers and integrates the provisions of 10 Directives and 8 regulations. The reason for the adoption of new legal acts at EU level was the financial crisis in 2008 which we all remember well, which has shown further weaknesses in the functioning and transparency of financial institutions and capital markets. We remember how it all started out of the US market together, the real estate market crisis, and then it just got all over the world together. The new rules aim to make financial markets more efficient, more resilient and transparent and to increase investor confidence, reduce the risk of market disturbances, reduce systemic risks and reduce unnecessary costs for participants, which we are also all aware of using services on financial markets. The areas governed by this bill are the authorisation for the operation and operation of investment firms and other persons authorised to provide investment services, the authorisation for the operation and operation of the market operator and the regulated market, the authorisation for the operation and operation of the service provider, the supply of data, the conditions for the supply of securities, the public and the inclusion of securities on the regulated market, the prohibitions of market abuse, the storage of financial instruments and the settlement and the intention of transactions with financial instruments and all other things controlled by HANFA in this part of the law. Key news is covered by the law, meaning primarily in the area of market infrastructure, the law regulates all instruments traded on the market because so far a large part of trading on the financial market has taken place outside the trading venue, by defining MiFID I to so far. over the counter markets or internal unregulated broker platforms. Furthermore, MiFID I rules were limited exclusively to stock trading, their derivatives, which prevented the efficiency of the price formation process for a large part of other financial instruments. MiFID II and this Proposal for a Law shall ensure that investment firms operating an internal multilateral trading system or similar share instruments must be registered as an authorised multilateral trading platform. For financial instruments other than shares, a new category of trading platform is introduced, an organised trading platform. The aim is to ensure that all organised trading takes place in order places and in a completely transparent way both before and after trading. Such a solution is estimated to transfer around 70% of the derivatives currently traded on OTC markets to these regulated markets. About 6,000 financial instruments are expected to increase to the number of those traded on regulated markets to as much as 100,000. Further important area of law is transparency and reporting. MiFID II extends transparency requirements to a number of financial instruments compared to MiFID I. Also, the current lack of quality and standardisation of data in other data has been resolved in a way that the standardised content and form and the list of information to be published and three new data delivery services are introduced. The cost of accessing data is much higher at EU level compared to, for example, other markets such as the US, and is intended to reduce costs to a reasonable extent, and all with a view to making the system as cheap and efficient as possible. In addition, all legal entities dealing with financial transactions will be allocated a single alphanumeric code of 20 characters, so on. .../The speaker speaks English./... without which participants will not be able to access the capital market. Algorithm trade is also one of the areas much better regulated by the Directive or the Law. A number of innovations are also being introduced in the part of investor protection. Investment consulting services are defined, defined and edited, so-called independent advice and the management of products themselves has been improved. The most significant impact of this news is expected on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, investment companies, credit institutions, public investment funds and other participants as well as on the HANFA, which is the main supervisory body. As far as the law itself is concerned, I can say that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, we will support it. We believe that this market must be better regulated that market participants must also have more available information and quality information so that they can make decisions and that their investments, or what is traded, can be better protected and have greater security. So we welcome the adoption of this Law and hope to improve the situation in the capital markets in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81036	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm just going to brief on what the law is about, that's what it means. More to accept it as something important in terms of institutional and security in terms of investors and investments and what it actually brings to us all. The law, as all my predecessors have said, is very large and detailed and I think it was important to regulate it in this way, and it is seen by the professional public who communicated it very well to actually establish a better mechanism in the control itself, to monitor all transactions, to actually be as much protection of investors as possible, in order to prevent punishment, abuse of any way that may have been possible in some previous forms. And finally, what is most important is the return of confidence in the Croatian capital market. It is true that our capital market is very poor and when you look at the traffic of the Zagreb Stock Exchange one or two days ago and so on. Then you'll see that it happens around 4-12 million kuna a day, depending on what the bonds are, any stock in circulation. As a rule, they're more in the circulation of stock than bonds. What I'd also like to say is that only the capital market is with us in the bandages, which doesn't mean that it can't develop and doesn't have to develop, actually the opposite. The entry into the EU opens a market with this possibility much greater and more accessible, but what we certainly did not have, which is one security and trust in trade itself and in the institutions themselves that do so. I, for one, entered this business once when I was as one of those who issued municipal bonds with their colleagues for the city of Zadar in fact passed all those stages, which means actually the capital market, how the value of the investor itself is estimated and how the prospectus is formed, or the document that this assessment is done, and it was actually one of the moments when I met directly and what perhaps some never did. It is important to say that in these conditions, it was a long time ago in 2004 when it was pronounced still unknown and we see that precisely because of our undeveloped market it did not come to life otherwise and I think that these are models that will surely find their market and will be the ones that will actually finance such important projects as we did in Zadar alone. Here is mentioned several times in fact what is with those securities that are or shares that have been invested in, and mentioned by certain companies, but I have to say that mandatory pension funds and similar institutions that are very verifiable in all these businesses may even have recognised the crisis more significantly in certain companies than others, perhaps than they were banks, but in any case their portfolios are such that they are actually very small in relation to such risky investments and that is from a range of 0.21 to 0.38% of their portfolios. So I think that the possibility for the development of the capital market exists in any case and in any case it is important that this very trust that this legislative framework strengthens, that this trust is then the institution is that and the citizens because it is not only the institutions important but also the companies and the citizens and all the other participants, that the investment is actually getting bigger and that everything goes at the end of the day we become as attractive as possible in this regard so that here, trust and return to the Croatian capital market must be with this law and I am sure that it will be strengthened and that this is what we are asked through the directives and regulations is actually excellently done and I hope that we will do it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81038	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81039	Thank you very much. My colleagues, this Capital Market Act depends the most on what colleagues said about HANFA. We need to know that the HANFA is in the case of Agrokor that Agrokor cost 10 billion kunas without cover. HANFA did not respond to this and had to react with the Stability and HNB Council because this law we all praise will be implemented with HANFA, it is a key issue, I personally raised criminal charges against HANFA because of this financial blow to the Republic of Croatia and the collapse of stability, and here is a key question that I ask you and all of us. As the people will believe in HANFA, it's like giving a thief to guard an ATM or a bank. HANFA is one of the key culprits for the condition that happened... Ten billion kunas without cover. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81040	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. Answer, dear colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81041	Well, since I know that HANFA has just been very active in all of this, the goal of these governments is to make sure that just such indifferences and miss not happening and not happening, and I am confident that this will do so because there are also significant preconditions that you have seen through all the detailed tracking opportunities, the implementation of all such frameworks. Therefore, I am convinced that we will do so very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81042	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for his reply. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the representatives of the proposer, Minister of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric and Assistant Minister Anti Matijević for the reasons of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81043	Proposal for a capital market law, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 321, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion ‘1. Proposal for a law on the capital market and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. I find that most of the vote 101 for, 7 abstentions and 5 against the concluded conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81044	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 17. State aid laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81045	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Ministry of Finance shall draw up the Annual State Support Report in accordance with Article 17. The Law on State Support and provides it to the Government, while the Government of the Republic of Croatia also delivers it to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The Ministry of Finance produced the Annual State Aid Report 2016 for which this debate was proposed. The annual State aid report for 2016 contains an analytical demonstration of state aid in the Republic of Croatia granted that year with revised data for 2014 and 2015, the report is based on data provided by the Ministry of Finance to support providers, which are competent ministries, agencies, funds, HBOR, units of the area or regional self-government. The analysis of state aid is comparable to the levels and structures of state aid granted to the Republic of Croatia with the relevant EU data as a whole and with individual Member States. The obligation to draw up regular annual State aid reports is also in line with the methodology and demonstration of state aid used in the EU or in accordance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States. The Ministry of Finance included in that report a small-value support report and information on the aid granted to agriculture and fisheries, although those aids are not subject to the State aid Act, it is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture is obliged to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance as regards the above and that the report should also contain information on State aid for agriculture and fisheries. Compared to the Annual State Aid Report 2016, I will present some information. In 2016, 11.4 billion kuna support was allocated to the Republic of Croatia, which is an increase of around 1.5 billion or 15.6% compared to 2015 and an increase of around 2.5 billion compared to 2014. In 2016, the share of the above-mentioned support in GDP was 3.3%, the share of support in state spending somewhere around 9.5%. Support to the industry and services sector amounted to €6.5 billion, some 56.7% of the total aid granted, while support to the sector in agriculture and fisheries amounted to 5 billion kuna or around 43.3% of the total aid granted. In total support to industry and sectoral support services, there is a share of 50.7% while horizontal support is covered by share 49.3, so a simplified almost equal ratio between sectoral and horizontal although we, very often in the Ministry of Finance, call this horizontally good support because they are practically available to all while sectoral ones, the difficulties most often in these sectors involve individual sectors or are not so fair, I would say. Of the total amount of horizontal support of €3.2 billion for horizontal support in narrow terms is 2.2 billion and to regionally 942 million, the smaller part of local support is only €59.3 million. Support for horizontal objectives in close terms amounted to 2.2 billion kuna in the structure of these support for environmental protection and energy savings was allocated 1.5 billion kuna, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 400 million kuna, for the employment of 167 million kuna, for culture 83, for the development of 52 million kuna and for research and development and innovation 13 million kuna. Small-value support or de minimis support was allocated in 2016 to the amount of 703 million kuna. After all the data analysed, the growth of the aid granted in 2016 compared to 2015 is already mentioned in order to determine the impact of the difficulties in the business of certain State aid users and the reduced budgetary opportunities. In view of the above, the need for a change in the trend of providing support, which means that donors need to focus their limited budget resources more, I will again say in a way that we call out for good support of horizontal character and less in sectoral support, which should also take into account the guidelines of state aid policies that highlight exactly those objectives that are most highlighted in the process of modernising state aid launched by the European Commission. It should be pointed out that state support for an instrument whose proper use can contribute significantly to strengthening the economy of the Republic of Croatia and should be carefully planned to grant state aid, to select the most effective measures and to monitor their implementation and the achievement of the objectives previously set, which is the obligation of each individual public support provider. Also in the context of the fiscal consolidation process and the establishment of a register of state aid with greater transparency will allow more effective monitoring of the effectiveness of the allocation of state support to each individual donor compared to the programme, of course in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. One of the important objectives of economic policy, and in relation to the structure of state aid, is the direction of granting support to horizontal objectives that act positively on the economy to a much smaller extent than sectoral support, which violates competition. Respecting all the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a debate to the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the adoption of this year's 2016 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81046	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81047	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. Speaking of support, I'd just catch the support we're giving for the shipbuilding. The fact is that the Split Shipyard has won a billion and a half kuna in recent years, whether these funds have been, and state-owned i.e. our review when the report always tells us that the funds are not used for what they're intended for, year after year that tells us. Do you have these audit reports is the fact that if money is given for shipbuilding in order to tribale to develop shipbuilding, and we are destroying shipbuilding is not doing Split Shipbuilding work but some other competitions. So what do you say to those audit reports and no one responds to it, and the money was given to shipbuilding, and they used it for some other activity? In this way, our most qualified and most professional people leave outside for shipbuilding, and it is literally more difficult to return shipbuilding without those experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81048	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81049	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, in the good part of your question and commentary you are right, not only the State Audit Office, which for years, in some ways warns of not only spending, the justification of spending budgets in the shipbuilding sector, but also in other sectors. We will soon further strengthen the role of the State Audit Office. We believe that this is an extremely valuable and esteemed institution and is doing a great job and, among other things, in the amendments to the Law on the State Audit Office, we will also prescribe sanctions for non-compliance with the recommendations they make to the budget users, not only for shipbuilding, but also in the case of shipbuilding in the past time, there have been other instruments and mechanisms that have identified certain problems, and in the end, among other things, we have said something today about the risks for fiscal policy and the overall public debt from the takeover and recognition of guarantees in shipbuilding. All in all, I think that the question is in place, so that not only in this report, but also in general, certain changes should be made so that such occurrences will no longer be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81050	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will actually share the time of the respected MPs Tomislav Žagar and Miro Bulj. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81051	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So the report we have in front of us is about 2016. We're talking a little bit more about what happened a year and a half ago. Of course, it is not good to talk about the past, but we can learn from that past. Well, for starters, I'd like to just pick up where the minister is in response to this replica, and it's a matter of colleagues to Bulja. So when we talk about sectoral or vertical, if that's what I can say to support, then when we look at a little bit of the past, then we see how these support grows ahead of the elections. So a lot of money went to shipbuilding. Shipbuilding and now there are problems, and that's what we have to ask ourselves from this report, actually, maybe the minister could answer that later on, what is the correlation between GDP growth and support? We can see the support is increasing. If they influence the increase in GDP because we see and this is what the minister stressed is particularly good support for horizontal support and we somehow insist on it all, that horizontal support has as much as possible share in support as possible, because often, if support is directed specifically in some sectoral direction, let me put it this way, it's ugly to say, but the failed industries then we have problems, we invest a lot of money and we have no effect. Here, I will mention, as I come from Slavonia, a paradox that we emphasized here in the Parliament when we discussed some agricultural laws and the Minister of Agriculture pointed out that several times. We have big, never more money in agriculture, and never less production. It's a paradox that's coming to us. What I can personally say is what I think when we discussed on the club about this topic, horizontal support is that I can start the economy, however, is not enough because especially in the part where they monitor innovation and new technologies. This would probably be with one, not only the amount of support, but with one good policy, and certainly support policy is part of industrial policy or development policy where the state interferes. The state actually interferes with the market, and it interferes with the reason that the market makes the market better, in fact to make certain entities more competitive on that market. And that's the point of support. In no way should the purpose of the support be that certain market stakeholders have a privileged place or to use these support, and from the media unfortunately, we can see that this is happening and that the public is sensitive to this, that individual entrepreneurs, and I will not say in a suspicious way, but indeed in one way that is not quite transparent, participate in the support. Here, let's say, I'm going to mention agricultural support here when it's not really complete, it's not completely transparent. It's just a report that's been made correctly. This, as stated in this recital, is the fourth report by the Ministry. Before that, the Competition Protection Agency submitted this report. The report is also good on the one hand, which in the opening part explains the very concepts, that it was clearer for us representatives and citizens, in a graphic sense it was well done and what we can conclude, do not kill the messenger if it brings bad news, although here, according to the report, the support grew, in 2016 it grew. It says here that we don't actually know, maybe the minister knows, I'm a little Googled, but we can't figure out what the situation is in 2017. Supports are growing, however, here I would like to and I would like to ask the minister if he could perhaps comment on the actual correlation. For horizontal support it should be, at least that way, I feel that it should have an impact on GDP growth because we have a report and a relationship here means, the amount of support towards GDP and what it really is when we compare ourselves with other EU countries. What the Government must certainly take into account is the Ministry, which is stated in the introduction, that it must respect means, those contracts that we have signed and that these support must not in any way be directed to achieve an unfair competition. Here, I wouldn't have lasted any longer, so let's keep fellow Bull going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81052	The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81053	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Fellow MPs and respected ministers. I would also say that the form of this report is good, however, when we talk about support in support reports, then we should, of course, look back, what the aim of these support is. Some spoken sectorally is not good, as many of these horizontal or competitions should be put in place and those developing need support. However, certainly Germany, when the car industry went poorly, did not without any analysis, gave direct support to the subsidies to the car industry. Because if it hadn't been for the auto industry, if they hadn't given the subsidy at that point, probably, today the economy wouldn't be German at this level. We say that the support has increased by 11.4 billion this year, but the withdrawal is going, we say that the surplus is the state budget, we boast these numerous indicators, but the fact is that just mentioned in the replica, the shipbuilding, I will mention the shipyard Split, because it is a very important industrial branch, not only for Dalmatia, but for all of Croatia, is the fact that a billion and a half kuna is a subsidy or aid, which I personally have nothing against, but because it will come back to us if we invest them in shipbuilding. Not give money for shipbuilding that doesn't invest in shipbuilding. And that's why we have a huge problem today. We gave huge money, people who are the best in shipbuilding, from welders to engineers and projectors went to other countries and made money there, while this money that we've given to support, subsidized, targeted support, for shipbuilding, for me, if it's worth more, but to spend money on purpose. And that warns us here from year to year a state audit. And we were still supporting each other, and the ships weren't built. And that's one of the huge problems. We're going to take down the shipbuilding, and we've beaten billions. Most of all, because shipbuilding should be the one who will be the driver of certain development and co-operatives and all that was needed. Therefore, we do not need to say, we do not need shipbuilding support, it should, but for shipbuilding, not to Split's smuggling to Mr... We've been giving money to shipbuilding a billion and a half kuna in recent years and no ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we target, pay, and that's what the state's audit warns us about. And no one's responding. The minister says I'm right, he's partly in agreement with me just now through the replica. But the fact is that today, as the 60 buses went from Dalmatia to Split, to work in shipbuilding without co-operatives, today they leave Dalmatia for only 2 vans. And we gave huge support, who's responsible for not investing in shipbuilding? We can't say we didn't know, we can't wash our pylor hands. Every year neatly, the State Audit in its report warns us about it. That's what I asked the question and the Prime Minister and the economy, but everyone washes their pylor hands. And now that it happens to be fired in human trafficking, it's also going to be all pylor hands washing, and we're a billion and a half kuna, and we've destroyed one of the most important branches developed for Dalmatia and for the back. I would ask you ministers, to see again, to analyse these support, to read the report of the State Audit and to give these support exclusively for what they are intended for, and not for the whims of the owners who have become owners of certain companies. Agriculture and fishing are also very important. The fact is that you said that we give 5 billion kunas for agriculture, fishing, today, here I'm going to start fishing, we don't have the capacity of one smaller Italian, fishing fleet, which essentially draws and exploits the fish fund in our waters. Where'd you get all that money in agriculture? While there were no subsidies, we had 64 thousand dairy producers, and now that we have huge support, we have 4600 producers to increase our support. When we didn't have the support, this much in this quantity, we had 70% of the domestic market needs, and 30 of us were importing, and today it's the other way around. Do we provide accurate support or give support to tycoons through the OPGs. It's an example of Agrocora. Agrokor has sucked huge support, and no one has, and of course, that's why Slavonia is empty. Well, it can't happen if we support farmers and dairy production, that it's been abolished, that we no longer have dairy production and that our villages are empty. We had to react from these reports before. And reports, i.e. State audits, and in these reports, we are, it's nice in shape is well written. I've read it all, because this is what I'm interested in. But I know that 11 billion kunas, 11.5 slightly less than 11.5 billion kunas we give in support, it's probably worth it, but the fact that agriculture where we give the most industry, there's no shifts, but it's getting worse and worse. And my biggest pain is shipbuilding and agriculture. That's what I've been talking about on several occasions, and I've asked MPs questions, and at the same time, while ministers are boasting and giving you the result that the surplus in the state budget is for the first time, at the same time, when we're looking for support, i.e. that the state of Dalmatia wine to the workers, the Dalmatians, your earned salary, and the workers they earned, that the state should give up at least part of the interest while this long bankruptcy procedure took place, in order to get some kuna, we double here, and we give billions to someone for shipbuilding and no ships. And that in my opinion is injustice and cry out to heaven. I know that you must keep the treasure, that you must be careful but I would ask you once again to see these support, to analyze them, to ask the owners of the main shipbuilding and everyone you invest, to give the report. 11.5 billion kuna, of which 50% of the largest work in industry, I am personally always for horizontal support, but also this one that should be targeted, or this one that you say sectoral, if necessary for development and which will return, I personally have nothing against, but not as we did in the case of shipbuilding. In no way, because I repeat again, if Germany had not been in crisis, had supported the auto-industry, it would certainly not have been at this level of economical because at that time when the demand for vehicles had simply been dropped, it was necessary to maintain jobs and I agree with that, but I cannot agree that no one in the state cares about the findings of State audits that talk about billions that are being spent unintendedly. It's a huge problem, I know what's going to happen now on Brodosplit, Mr. Fatty will say I have to fire people if you don't give me support, you'll be under pressure, so you'll give whatever... People will stay, but I'm giving you for shipbuilding, is there another 2 billion? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should, but let the ships work because the people in the shipbuilding will develop, the money will be refunded by taxes, there will be more jobs, not that it covers its whims to the detriment of Croatian shipbuilding. Here I would only end up answering from this pay phone what I said is I'm interested in the survival of the shipbuilding of Split's smuggling, river and general shipbuilding and, of course, the problem of agriculture because the fact that we're investing huge money is literally on never worse branches, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81054	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Commissioner Marijana Balic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81055	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, esteemed MPs and MPs. I would first of all like to thank the Minister for the very comprehensive report that the Ministry of Finance has prepared and which is today in front of us. At the very beginning, it should be pointed out that what the Minister himself said was that state support is an excellent instrument whose proper and smart use can significantly contribute to strengthening the economy of the Republic of Croatia and, consequently, it is necessary to plan closely on granting state aid, select the most effective measures and monitor their implementation and attaining the objectives previously set. As we heard in the opening statement, in 2016, 11.4 billion kuna support was allocated to the Republic of Croatia, which is an increase of 15.6% compared to the previous 2015. As regards the distribution between industry and services and agriculture and fisheries, in 2016 the amount of aid for industry and services accounted for 56.7% of the total aid granted while the support of the agriculture and fisheries sector amounted to 43.3% of the total aid granted. Support granted to the agriculture and fisheries sector is more than €69.4 million in 2016 compared to 2015 and has been granted to the largest part through subsidies while industry and services support is more than €1.4 billion compared to 2015 and here is also the largest share of subsidies and direct subsidies. In total aid granted, sector support has a share of 50.7% while horizontal support including regional support and support at local level was covered by a share of 49.3%. Here it is good to emphasise that although support for the industry and services sector is constantly growing, a positive trend in continued growth in horizontal support is observed. From the total amount of horizontal support in 2016, out of the amount of €3.2 billion on horizontal support in the narrow sense, it relates to €2.2 billion, to regional support of €942 million and to support at a local level of €59.3 million. It should also be noted here that, in order to achieve cohesion in the future periods of regional support, they will be of great importance as they help develop undeveloped areas by supporting investment and creating jobs in a sustainable way. This balances economic growth between different parts of the country and ensures stability and at macroeconomic level since state support is a key instrument for creating and maintaining equal conditions for all companies, and given the fact that guidelines for State aid policy for the period 2018-2020 have been adopted and that state support for horizontal nature, such as research, development of innovation, environmental protection, improvement, employment and investment, in particular in the form of regional support, and in line with EU practice, will be held as the situation of granting state aid in the period in which we are currently located, i.e. which is different in front of us, and that much more support will be directed to increase the share of horizontal state aid. Although the support of small values as the minister himself said or that... Support is not part of this report, since they are not considered State aid both in terms of EU law and financing contracts, they are shown in this report because they cannot significantly distort trade between the Republic of Croatia and the EU Member States and in order to show that these aids are subject to significant budgetary resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, in 2016, they amount to 702.8 million kuna and were largely allocated through subsidies with a share of 57.8%. At the very end, there was a sharp rise in the aid granted in 2016 compared to all earlier periods and despite the milder economic crisis and the growing difficulties in the business of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia and reduced budgetary opportunities. Following the above, we agree and reiterate the need to focus more and more limited budget resources on horizontal support and less on sectoral support, whilst taking into account the State aid policy guidelines. And given what my colleague, Žagar, has pointed out, I also find it difficult to assess which amounts of support were actually allocated in 2017, because they could or should be somewhat lower than the year under consideration, and since the economic crisis itself was milder. This year's State Support Report for 2016 will be supported by a follow-up to all of the above mentioned HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81056	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81057	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Ministers with guests, with associates. Here I would refer to this part of what Representative Miro Bulj said, namely state aid in shipbuilding. In fact, I agree with the statement that state support for itself is not a problem. State support exists in all major economies of the world and should be given, the state should participate in economic activities that are of strategic interest to it. The problem, however, is that support is not spent on purpose, but the fact that it is not spent on purpose raises the question of who is responsible and is in fact asking the question of who is responsible for it. And for that is the criminal responsibility of those who give you support, and among other things, those who see that these support is not doing well, and they do nothing to prevent it from including this team sitting on my right. During all these years, including the 2016 reports, one of the largest support in the country to be granted was support for Brodosplit, which paid a billion and a half kuna in the budget. However, although the enormous money of Croatian taxpayers is a day for restructuring it has not been implemented and thus Brodosplit is heading towards business liquidation. Here this week we were able to read newspaper articles to share cancellations there, that no points were produced, that thousands of people would get fired and, above all, women, this should be emphasized, that a billion and a half kuna is in the wind. And that's very interesting to me when people ask where you're going to take the money to solve some problems, where would you take it? So here's where they'd take it, they'd take out a bunch of incompetents like this to get back what they couldn't spend on purpose. In particular, in this case a billion-and-a-half kuna given to Brodosplit, and no one knows what the criminal offence of the subsidy fraud was committed, Article 258. The penal law, which clearly states "who, with the aim of achieving state support with himself or another, gives the State support provider incorrect or incomplete information on the facts that depend on a decision on state support or fails to inform the State support provider of changes relevant for the decision on State support, will be punished by a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years". So it's known that the buyer of Brodosplit is, for example. As an integral part of the purchase contract, he has committed himself to making a fleet of 14 ships from the large shipbuilding sector and has not made a single one. Therefore, the buyer of Brodosplit provided incorrect information on the facts that depended on a decision on state support, which is therefore a criminal offence. Furthermore, the buyer of Brodosplit should have made its own restructuring programme before taking over Brodosplit to charge that restructuring programme from the Republic of Croatia budget of 34 million kuna, which specifically means that the state budget has been robbed for the same amount for the programme from which nothing is most important. Furthermore, for its own needs, the buyer Brodosplita hired companies dealing with psychological skills, but as in the previous case, the psychological skills of employees of Brodosplit paid taxpayers in a amount not less than 27 million kuna. Furthermore, according to the contract on the purchase of Brodosplit, it was envisaged that the buyer would bear the cost of severance of workers in the amount of 220 million kuna, but that cost was again borne by taxpayers. This should be contributed to the fact that the customer self-initiated the severance of the workers who remained working, in addition to the Labour Act, and so for the first time in Croatia happened that the state budget paid the severance fees to workers who had not been fired. It is estimated that to this end the state budget is damaged by at least 70 million kuna. Among other things, the review of the operations of Brodosplit found that the buyer of Brodosplit paid loans to companies not involved in shipbuilding that do not work in the sector, so the inspection found that of these loans, the minimum amount of 60 million was not returned to Brodosplit. In the event of State support from Brodosplit, the criminal offence referred to in Article 291 has been committed. The criminal law abuses powers and positions that say "A official or responsible person who makes use of his position or authority exceeds the limits of his authority or does not carry out his duty so as to benefit himself or another person or cause other damage will be punished by a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years". In our case, members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and particularly Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are still at present one of the key persons Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak knew very well or had to know that the buyer of Brodosplit was neither a small part nor an organisational able to build his own fleet according to the restructuring programme. This in other words means that they knew or had to know that the buyer of Brodosplit was unable to restructure the business system. Despite this knowledge, they have used their position and powers to sign a sales contract with the buyer Brodosplit, thus obliging themselves to pay state aid of 1.5 billion kuna, thereby providing the buyer of Brodosplit with a benefit that is 15 times the value of his previous assets and causing damage to the Croatian budget funds for the same amount. Furthermore, the State support given to Brodosplit has been criminalised in Article 236. The penal code, or the act of deception, which reads, “Whoever, with the aim of providing himself or others with an illegal property, brings someone by false display or by concealing facts in error or by keeping him in error and thereby leads him to do or not do something to harm his or her own property, he will punish the prison from 6 months to 5 years. ” In our case, the Div group is aimed at obtaining an illegal property benefit of 1.5 billion kuna by falsely showing that it is capable in 27 months to build 14 ships led astray by a competent commission which has therefore issued a consent to sell. And now what's most interesting about the current minister who's responsible for it, which is Article 302. Penalty law not to report a crime committed. So, "Who knows that a criminal offence has been committed for which a sentence of 10 years or more is prescribed, so he does not report it, although he knows that such a report would allow or significantly facilitate the detection of the crime or perpetrators will be punished by a prison sentence of up to 3 years". The government of the Republic of Croatia and its key stakeholders, such as Mr. Vrdoljak, who personally signed a sales contract for Brodosplit, knew and knew until now that the construction of a fleet of Shiposplit ships as a basic condition for restructuring would not be. Not only did they, as official and responsible persons who know that the money was accidentally spent, not only did they not report the committing of a crime of fraud in economic business, but they did not, more importantly, initiate the process of breaking up the purchase contract that they signed or stopped paying state aid, which could significantly reduce the damage suffered by the budget. So, what's this all about? This is about the government's first and foremost members of the government of Zoran Milanovic, and afterwards the government of Tim Oreskovic and at the end of the government of Andrej Plenkovic knowingly and deliberately damaged Croatia's budget for huge money by hitting people who have nothing to do with shipbuilding or the ability to change anything about it. They did it very well knowing that such a system of justice and such a state attorney's office would never persecute them for reasons that they depend on themselves. This shows how deep corruption ties are in Croatia and how difficult the Croatian economy is. Before effective anti-corruption measures are really achieved in the Republic of Croatia, any state support will not make sense and will only cause damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they will ultimately have very little or no benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81058	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81059	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I would actually like to speak partly about this report, which we are presented by apostrophe of several points in it and the differences between support for individual segments or individual branches, individual activities in the Republic of Croatia. So out of 11 billion and 419 million kuna, how much in the roughly 11.5 billion kuna the total amount of state support is spent on I would say some patching holes in the present. That patching hole in the present isn't something I say with demeaning. We need to patch up the holes, and there's been a lot of talk here about shipbuilding. Today it looks one way, but there's still shipbuilding. When we faced this topic of dilemma, it was a shipbuilding yes or no in Croatia, if there will be any shipbuilding in Croatia after the entry into the Union, and we have worked hard to make it possible for the shipbuilding to survive in the first place. So I'm not talking about it with demeaning, but I think we should be aware that the vast majority of the funds are therefore out of 11.5 billion going to patch holes and holding water while the masters leave. There are a few things that are really a question of the future, so some investment is not in order to somehow survive and keep jobs now, which is of course all that matters, but there are several segments that are in these categories of activities that receive state support are the question of the future. These are, say, research, development, innovation, it's perfecting, it's a culture, and that's another category that seems to have changed the way support is recorded, and then it doesn't appear in 2016, and that's the development of broadband networks, so the development of broadband internet. These four categories of these 11.5 roughly or 11 billion and 419 million kunas total 148 million. So in subsidising what should be a kind of investment in the future, research, development and innovation, most of all, but absolutely and perfecting because perfecting is a kind of education to what people already have education for new technologies, for a different labour market, for a new type of job or jobs, so something that is turned to the future. And a culture that, of course, everyone except when they want to fight the last hole on the play is the basis of it all. Culture by my deep conviction is what we are or aren't. Now out of those 11.5 billion on these issues, the future total subsidizes activities with 148 million kuna. It is in my opinion that something should be changed, I say should be changed because it is not specific for this report 2016. That's how it was before, and you can see from the data that it was before. In 2014, in some things especially in research and development, I think twice as much funding, but in 2015 it has already fallen significantly. So it's not something that happened dramatically in 2016, but here it gets into the eyes and it's actually even sadder if it has a tradition because it means that we're constantly investing in patching holes and we're not constantly investing in what and those who can carry the future. Support for research, development and innovation of subsidies in 2016 amounts to 10 million kunas, tax relief amounts to 3 million kunas, how can I say it is not regrettable would be funny. So it's no money for that kind of activity. That should change dramatically if we're going to catch any step. Earlier, the minister on the board spoke about projected growth rates and these documents that were adopted and discussed in the government without these elements we have no chance of becoming more ambitious targets. Support for the improvement of the 2016 subsidy 1 million, tax relief 50 million. Culture 2016 grants 83.3 million kuna. So I'm not going to mention the broadband Internet here because it now seems to count within some of the local self-government units' budgets or otherwise because otherwise, in these tables, the broadband Internet has a zero for 2016. But from what I've read here, it's now showing up somewhere else. And finally contrary to what colleagues here have said, so shipbuilding even though it is a major consumer subsidy is not the largest consumer subsidy. The biggest consumer subsidy in 2016 is radio-television broadcasting. Shipbuilding a billion and 152 million, radio-television broadcasting billions and 215 million kunas. Now, public television and public radio are very important things, but this quality that we are faced with in a situation where no one will ever see this public television again in a situation where there is serious competition that I don't mention it but which is really almost all of them, not all of them have as much bofl as you want, but the serious competition that is more important, more informative than this public television where instead of research and development, instead of culture, instead of perfecting or education, we give absolutely the biggest subsidies to this particular radio-television broadcast, we should be given the right to have one really serious debate here on the quality of public service because public service that eats practically half of the total subsidies in the Republic cannot be as disastrous as it is today and above all shipbuilding, first of all, first of all, it is one of the big issues and major problems in the whole model of subsidies and funding. We pay a lot and get under acceptable and average quality in this segment, it is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, we'll accept the report, but based on exactly this report, I think we're forced to discuss this public service that we're subsiding with over a billion and 200 million kunas a year and we're starting to have a serious conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81060	Thank you very much. Now we move on to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81061	Thank you very much. I am sorry that here is the Honorable Minister, what is the new Rules of Procedure essentially all refers to as a monologue and it acts as a monologue and literally colleagues and colleagues, this is a very small number of things that do not fall asleep and it is a very important topic and it is evident that this Rules of Procedure has been missed and that it was simply not in the development of parliamentaryism but that it is the advocacy of those who should talk more about this. You can go to sleep here because they simply don't have any MPs either through replicas or through other possibilities to ask questions and you know that this is a very important topic. You know, I also mentioned what I'm going to mention again, and what hurts me, it's shipbuilding, the state's audit year after year warns that the shipbuilding subsidies are being spent on purpose. I personally repeat, there is nothing against shipbuilding subsidies, however, and more but only for shipbuilding and, of course, Fatty will come now when there is no subsidy, he will fire people because we have no shipbuilding. The highest quality people have gone to other shipyards. From welder to engineer. That's a fact. I repeat, when Germany was through economics, Germany subsidized the car industry because it was less demand, it simply had to be fired by a large number of workers. To survive on the market that their economy and economic survival and to be strong, they subsidized and proved to be right. But the fact is that we destroyed the shipbuilding, the fact is that the State Audit has warned us, the fact is that you will again be under the pressure of those bosses who have spent a billion kuna of money in the Split Shipyard in another direction and not for shipbuilding because the orders for the construction of ships are empty, the contract is not respected, that now that the workers have been fired, the pressure will go to you and you ministers will again, succumb to the pressure because it is already too late and it is already too late, but a year and a half, two, three, four as it is being warned from 2014 but as the new owner, the State Audition, you have shown it a little bit to provide accurate information and we can all check it, we fellow MPs when it is debated. It's a huge amount of money, $11.4 billion, meaning an increase compared to this reporting period. It's about huge money. We subsidize agriculture, 5 billion kunas in agriculture and fishing. Until we subsidized, we had 64,000 dairy producers and 70% of our domestics covered the markets. Since we've been subsidizing, we have 4600 dairy producers and 30% of our domestics we've secured markets and 70% we're importing. Where's the money? Where do we give the money? And the State Review warns us, I personally asked Prime Minister and Minister Dalic, and now I'm telling you ministers that money goes to who knows where. It's visible in case of an incentive for Agrokor. So here's that money from the EU funds. Even though during Minister Jakovina's time to go to the OPGs in Slavonia, small agricultural economies, it went to the OPGs owned by those who captured the Croatian economy. That's why the village is extinct because it's unclear here that support is growing and our agriculture is failing. As far as fishing is concerned, you said fishing, too, and that part is controversial. We don't have a fishing fleet. We don't support our fishermen. We prescribe our fishermen how far they can fit, how long it takes to be one centimetre, it can't be a wider window. While foreign fishing fleets, mostly Italian in our waters literally plow the submarine, hunt wherever they want and wherever they want. And they've got a huge profit of hunting fish in our Adriatic. For what? We don't have the courage. We don't have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, we don't have the courage to invest this money where this money should be invested. It's not clear to me that there's growing support for fishing and it's never worse for our fishermen. Where does that money go? If he only went to Agrokor, it's not only Agrokor. I don't know who's dealing with the Adriatic fish right now, that should come out, of course it should be that Registrar. Once again, I have nothing against sectoral support, targeted support. But if it is for shipbuilding, for Split Shipyard, then let him build ships, not you, out of fear in the government, because he will say that he will fire workers, you give them money for their whims, to make yachts, not ships he should, which he signed by contract. Now, once the workers are fired, you'll be in trouble again. They will now threaten to fire workers, you will again provide support, regardless of which they will not invest in shipbuilding, and shipbuilding we know what it means for economic development mainly of Dalmatia, but also for the whole of Croatia. As far as the cooperatives are concerned, how important this whole story is. Once again, I would warn you of what my colleague Pusic said. HRT has the support of counterpart Pusic, but he is PR Prime Minister Plenkovic at the moment and before the former prime minister. He's got backup. Look at how public television works. The PR ministers in the government, including you and the prime minister. That's a fact. It's very difficult for an opposition to get there and have another attitude, very difficult. So HRT public television is PR, so I'm sorry what these support we're giving out of the budget isn't really public service, it's PR. At the same time as you provide support to Debeljak and others for shipbuilding, not spending money, the same workers or workers, I will repeat Dalmatinka or Dalmatia wine or the Designer, all companies that have failed, you are afraid and do not want to forgive them the demands of the ministry and the state to get paid, and this is about minor amounts. In the case of Dalmatinka, it's a few million kunas. That these women, those 300 women who have been waiting for their salary for nine years can't get it. Now, that's why Fatty will press you to fire people again and force you to get support and that money if you spend like Todorovic did before. Now I don't want to mention it, now everyone's attacking him, but we were talking about him until it was quite possible. That's a fact. It's the fact that we can't afford this amount of money, I don't know where we're giving it. And for buying exclusively social peace, it's a fact and about these things I've been talking about in... But I expect you, since she's really sleepy, I can see that my colleagues are going to fall asleep, maybe I have a little stronger voice, so I'm going to pull them out of my sleep a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see a colleague of mine... It's torn at one point, the fact that we've made a monologue out of the Parliament, I expect you'll give me a replica at least to ask something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's not the government and Prime Minister Pharaohs. He must not allow parliament, if we have been banned from speaking, if they have forbidden us to have replicas, if they have forbidden us, Minister, so at least you come out more often for a pay phone because you have been favored by the Rules of Procedure, you must go whenever you wish. We Assembly representatives are not allowed by you, you are put in a glass bell, you are all-in and these questions, I would like you to answer these questions. Because the state review warns us, the people chose us, and the government originates from the Parliament. Therefore, the many answers I have asked you, the questions I expect answers. 11 billion kunas for the agricultural industry mostly went away, and never the worse agricultural industry, never worse. Well, you can't see a cow from here to Sinj anymore. Get in the car with me if you don't mind. So who do you give the money to? No Todoric now, you can't tell by this Ramljak,... Where's the money? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's the money, this is the basic question. This isn't even a joke, this is a story, it's funny, this is a story that the Croatian state is giving 11.4 billion kuna support, 55 billion in agriculture, and agriculture is never worse. While there was no support, much better was production. Di is money, it's a basic issue, and I'm particularly sorry about what we've been trying to develop, which is shipbuilding, it's tradition, it's like in Rijeka, but also in Split and Split Square, it's only in ruins because you were afraid and you supported it solely for the sake of preserving social peace, not for the development of shipbuilding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81062	Thank you. Here, your wish has come true, you have more replicas. So it's not like everyone's asleep, and it's not like you can't talk in Parliament. The first one will be replicated by your esteemed representative, Nikola Grmoy. [[I'm sorry... to comment.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81063	I would not agree with the chairman, with you. The situation in the assembly since the amendments to the Rules of Procedure cannot be called parliamentary at all. We don't have any discussion because practically at the club presentations we can't replicate, then we have to wait for individual debates to be able to replicate to our colleagues at all, to say something here, so I think the Parliament's work is much worse than the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that you've imposed, and that's why I've replicated my colleagues to Bulya because he wants someone to rephrase to him so that he can bring out these things here during his presentation even more potentiate. He spoke of real problems and the situation that various support was given, that they had practically failed to meet their purpose and objectives for which the state decided to go in this direction from shipbuilding, livestock, agriculture and beyond. We also have a lot of irregularities that my colleague Bulj used to talk about on several occasions, and here I see that I'm running out of time to discuss, so I expect my colleague Bulj to respond to this reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81064	Here's a colleague that you have time for a quality debate even though you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, let's let you do it. Answer to the line, dear fellow Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81065	Comrade Grmoy, in this case, you did not violate the Rules of Procedure, but the chairman who did not warn you. And is this really a precedent? Indeed here when we talk about the processes democratically, this Parliament has become a lullaby, a theatre. Or as the Prime Minister says, as he said not in our house, this is the theater in our house. Simple monologue, exits no longer have the possibility of any further debate. I know that fellow Boric is a little nervous, he's throwing himself out of the bench, I know that you have succeeded in his purpose, I know that you have succeeded in making this Parliament a lullaby, that the ministers here are literally asleep and can freely allow more and that they can smoke cigarettes, can burn and laugh at our parliamentary representatives. We are talking about very important topics, a colleague of Grmoy, a very important one, about shipbuilding where the state's audit year after year warns us that huge money, billions of kunas, are leaving and are not, are not being spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81066	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. You're done. You're out of time not to violate the Rules of Procedure as you say. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81067	Thank you. Dear fellow Bully, so the minister listens to us very carefully, that's nice to meet you. Look, the minister could be Elliot Ness of Croatian finance. When we warn about the area of public procurement, we can also warn the area of contracting jobs because cooperatives, suppliers do not receive the money they have earned. And that's exactly the problem, May 3rd, Oily Shipyard and Oily Group full of books orders. No ship dives. Why? Because instead of paying suppliers, to pay cooperatives by transactions transfer money within related companies. Little Agrokor. And then what happens? The suppliers don't want to deliver the goods, there's no boat dives, a penalty is paid, and everyone loses. And of course, then, I call upon the Minister to introduce order in this country because one of the more important elements of a regulated society is respect for the law and if laws should be amended only to introduce order that these things cannot be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81068	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81069	That's right, this is about huge support, huge support, we're going to take HBOR, state support, local self-government units. So this is about huge money and the effects we see, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. Industry on never lower branches. I've caught up with shipbuilding, it's similar in road construction, we don't have strong companies anymore, which is why, now it's a question of what kind of policies we've been running again, construction companies than we'll be doing, I have nothing against anyone, the Chinese will work for us, we've had a terrible good viaduct, we've had a lot of good companies that have failed. The fact that these support, billions didn't go where they were supposed to go. It's a fact, and it's the minister in part and admitted the answer to my line. But indeed once again, I would ask the minister, since our parliamentary deputies have been reduced to the right of speech in Parliament and that more often if you can go out for this pay phone and clarify these questions. Don't you ministers get too much sleep.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81070	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81071	Dear colleague Bulj, I think we should discuss here in an entirely reasoned manner, now we're discussing the 2016 report and it's so late something, being too smart. But it is certain that when the revision warns that something unintended is being spent that it is very late, that it is at least a year and a half late. This means that we do not have instruments that control money that is given for some purposes, that is, to achieve certain goals. I can tell you my experience in picanteria from Italy, there's not a single euro, not a single lira of subsidies. The Department decides which technology it will buy, and the state buys it on favourable terms. Improving the technology production organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81072	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81073	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, I agree already with regard to shipbuilding in 2014, as... The report of the State audit shall be repeated from 2015, 2016, 2017, from year to year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you that it's too late to react now. But I now assure you before the Minister that he will continue to provide support for shipbuilding and no ships will be built. They must be courting our policies team, I don't know, but when it comes to labour rights in bankruptcy, if they need the state to forgive at least the tax that they get part of their salaries, such as workers, Dalmatians or Dalmatia, or some others, they can't, but the courting of Debeljak, Todorovic and others can. That money doesn't spend on purpose is why it's easy. Don't ask me... For workers please then I will have to pay everyone and these are minor amounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You give more support in one day to Fatty for what doesn't purposely spend money than you take to all the workers of the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81074	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81075	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. Together we were discussing tax reform, actually at that time your area and my area, lost one part of which we strongly advocated, which is the support that our entrepreneurs and our citizens had, in fact, were tax exemptions. Unfortunately, there has been a situation where the minister has equated essentially all of Croatia, we have received some other measures, but this does not make up for what a certain entrepreneur in our country wanted to start production. What do you say now? I would say that in fact, I'd rather think about it now, preparing a new Vukovar Act where it would be a more significant release for the support of those de minimis small values. Perhaps it would be good to accept that all areas have suffered the same loss in work, that many of us have been occupied that most deserve that opportunity to be equal. For some will be more equal among all of us who have been killed in the work. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81076	I thank my colleague Panenic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81077	I agree with my colleague, we have given the amendment, the amendment is not accepted because the fact that in undeveloped areas were covered by war and most of the rural areas were covered by war, that entrepreneurs should be freed from support or benefits in undeveloped areas, to survive, to work and to open up a working mission. The government did not agree to this, and this money if only part of it was aimed at supporting this money to support or liberate entrepreneurs, it would certainly be the strongest demographic measure because it is certainly much harder to be in Dalmatian Zagora, the Person Entrepreneur, the cost is more expensive, the costs are higher than it is in Dalmatia or in you in Slavonia. And so dotted these political PR support that I support, but the whole area, ministers, two-thirds of Croatia is empty. Entrepreneurs in those two-thirds of Croatia must have certain support or certain taxes less or less because otherwise we will not be able to return and leave people in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81078	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81079	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bulj, I absolutely agree that state support is wrongly directed because when we see 150 people leaving Croatia daily, that the economy is at the lowest rates, we say that economic growth is really growing, but we are not growing like our neighbouring countries that have double economic growth. Agriculture, I don't know about Slavonia, I know about the Dalmatian Zagora that many farmers leave their fields and orans unprocessed and I absolutely agree about the support in the economic sector, so that the farmers of the rural area, above all the Dalmatian Zagora, Like, Gorsko Kotar and part of Slavonia should have much more support, i.e. the Ministry of Finance should award them even to open up production plants and employ people, because the farmer of the rural area can't pay the same kilowatt of electricity to HEP as the owner pays in the centre of Zagreb, pay Croatian waters the same as the owner in the centre of Zagreb or Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81080	I thank my colleague Pranic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81081	I agree with you. I am, today it was nice when you are, it was nice when you brought strawberries from the Vrgorak field from the OPG, here's if there's anything left to bring the minister to try, that smell, it's not Chinese, it's domestic, domestic product, but I'm sad that these supports are watered the Sinsko polje, not Vrgoračka, not Imotsko, not Drnička, nor Kninski, nor who cares about it. It would be quality support, but the only thing the state, Croatian water knows, of course, the state, can charge, can only charge from people for nothing to collect money, nor when they cleaned the canal, nor when they went to Sinjsko polje, very little, or around. So the whole support system is misdirected, Ministers try Vrgorak's homemade strawberries, come to Sinj and try our products, invest here, forget these parts, support those you fear or have funded to be in this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81082	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81083	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I would like to put the emphasis on support at the level of units of local, regional, regional self-government, these are the support that I know most about and are closest to me. That's what they're called. Good support, which was also spoken of by the minister, so-called horizontal support. In fact, we can see from the report that state support in 2016 increased by 15.6% compared to 2015, while it increased by 27.6% compared to 2014. However, when we look at the support of units of regional, local, regional self-government, we see there is a tendency to decrease, so in 2016 there are fewer by 33.7% and 2015, respectively, compared to 2014 there is also a decline of 23.2%. When we talk about aids of small value, we can also see an increase, however, how much the increase, i.e. the reduction of counties, municipalities and cities, is difficult to see, except that this total amount is 201 million kuna. On this occasion, I would appeal to the mayor, municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, and council members of the municipal councils and the county parliaments that their task is also to increase the growth and development of their region's economy, i.e. entrepreneurship. We know that tax reform has been allocated to units of local and regional self-government, and I expect that members of the assembly, mayors, mayors, at least some of these funds will focus precisely on encouraging the economy and entrepreneurship of their end. I would say immediately that it is not expected to be done by all units of local self-government because a number of units do not have such a good situation in the budget, however, there are those who have a much better situation and expect that money to be targeted at support. In 2016, the town of Vodice singled out 868 000 kuna for small value support only. We have recognized what is necessary in our area, what we would like to keep, or motivate our entrepreneurs, so that we have the support of craftsmen, owners of traditional and artistic crafts, further those who produce products with the label of Croatian island products, holders of family farms. The big problem in our tourist resorts is seasonal business, so for our accommodation facilities, hotels, which are decided to work all year long, we freed them from paying communal fees from November to February. Furthermore, on islands where business is also difficult, we freed them from paying communal fees for all those grocery stores, as well as the caterers. Business area owners who want to reconstruct their premises are also exempt from paying public fees. Furthermore, when it comes to consumption taxes, the city of Vodice reduced 50% of its consumption tax to all its hosts, except those operating during July, August and September, in order to make it easier for them in the winter months of business, it allowed guests and citizens a slightly lower price. We also subsidise interest on credit for certain activities such as agriculture and production. I believe that these measures are certainly support for entrepreneurs, but they are also not the cost of the city, but in a different way they can stimulate their entrepreneurs to work, for example. in the winter months because as you can see, a series of measures have just been made to enable work throughout the year, so that a guest who comes to Vodice for not only summer months can see something more, something else to experience than when Vodice is dead in the winter months, and thus, in a different way, bring income back to the city budget and to the tourist community, whether it's a residence tax, whether it's a re-tax on consumption, income tax, thus surely our entrepreneur will facilitate his business so that he can be regular payers, that he can keep some job or, as I said, work all year. Here, once again appeal to the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors and their congregations, or councils, that a billion and a half kuna, which, by the new tax reform from the state budget, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or by decision, has referred this Parliament to the units of local and regional self-government at least part of the funds and they pass through support to their entrepreneurs and owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81084	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. We have a few replicas. Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81085	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Branka, you said that cities and municipalities should help develop entrepreneurship, more based on the opening of new... jobs, but you have one paradox that for economic zones in the area of the Republic of Croatia newly opened, means infrastructure, only 70 million kunas are allowed for all units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the central state, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, thinks through units of local self-government to develop entrepreneurship zones, places where only real jobs can be opened, and as far as local self-government units are concerned, we know that tax reform or the rise of an untaxable part of the salary has conditioned a reduction in income tax revenues for all cities in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81086	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81087	My colleague Pranic, when it comes to business zones, then we have an example, and I have an example from my city, namely, all those business zones that were not activated in time could no longer receive funding from the state budget. However, we all aim to withdraw as much funding from European funds as possible. As far as the state budget is concerned, it is there to expect this support to be as small as possible, and it is up to us as leaders, or not more to me, but to all those who run their cities and municipalities through European funds to provide funds and certain projects in their area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81088	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Juričev- Martinchev. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81089	My colleague, what's good, the tribune support. I supported the law on units of local self-government, however, so that it would now be too late what was taken, on that path. But the fact is, that's why I didn't vote for the budget when I was a part of the majority because the minister didn't want to do it then. So, on the budget, that was the deal. It was later accepted, and I supported it. I don't have a problem with that, but the problem is when you're talking about Vodice, I know, the coastal town, I like Vodice, but when I go to Drnis in your backyard, whom does it, I mean, part of the National Park, you mention it, where does the money go? Well, Drnish has been declared "developed," do you know that? Are you aware, I got into a car, no one anywhere, and not even a cat, no mice at all. They have nothing to hunt cats. Well, Drnis has been declared developed cities. He in the contest, when the tender for support has no advantage or any project. Well, in your backyard, many have been declared developed. Wrong politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81090	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj for the replica. Answer, colleague Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81091	A colleague of Bulj, it is true that the city of Drniš has fallen into the above-average development and therefore has lost numerous support, but we believe that the new legislative proposal on mountainous and mountainous areas will correct that injustice, that those 6% of the tickets received by the city of Drniš before, and now lost because it belongs to the developed city of Drniš, and that one special measure and policy towards the Dalmatian mountain will lead to that end being revived because it is unfair that some measures have been skipped, and we have a daily example of emigration from that region.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81092	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Juričev-Martinchev. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81093	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, as regards the support you've been giving as a city, I can only commend. In fact, it's also the function of the city and the recognition of the problems that exist in the local self-government unit where you behave as a duty, the actual amount for me is respectable, seeing that the municipality in which I was head of 600 thousand kunas of original incomes has. So basically, within that, we managed to isolate something for agriculture. Of course the constant of preserving that problem. But I'll just say, so, of those 600 thousand kunas, the previous one that was from your party has succeeded and picked it up for its own consumption. And if the state's attorney's office proved 90,000 kunas that he spent on various things and condemned him to parole and that HDZ never locally at my place, not a single word said to condemn such a procedure, and what was crucial, they crucified me for it, and the municipality didn't get any kuna from the Vukovar-Srijem County. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81094	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, colleague Martinchev-Juritch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81095	My colleague Panenic, what I can say, is that I condemn a crime scene from whatever party it comes from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81096	Thank you for your response. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81097	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Given the scope of the State aid report, I will focus on support in agriculture because my predecessors have already spoken more about other aids. Therefore, support in agriculture and fisheries and rural development includes two segments, direct payments, there is basic payment, desired payment, redistributed payment, productively linked support and support for young people. And secondly, it's a measure of rural development. The Republic of Croatia signed an EU accession agreement on a common agricultural policy which is one of the most important areas of action, the EU institutions, both in terms of the amount of regulations regulating the area, and in terms of the share in the EU budget. The primary purpose is to ensure at the same time a stable supply of quality, safe food for the population at affordable prices and adequate income for farmers who also allow for the modernisation and development of agricultural production. By signing this contract and relating to Chapter 11 of the agricultural and rural development, the Republic of Croatia has committed to providing funds for the payment of direct support and... rural development combined with EU funding gradually introduced in support of agricultural and rural development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to explain to our citizens, in a simple dictionary, what support they are in agriculture and what they serve because they impose on the media the opinion that farmers are getting incentives. They get nothing, but it belongs to them in accordance with the EU agreements on produced agricultural products, so that they are more competitive and cheaper for consumers, but more competitive in the EU on the world market, so incentives are calculated at cost. I note that EU farmers have been given full incentives for many years, and the payment of a full envelope for the survival of our agricultural production of crucial importance. It is also important to simplify and adapt the laws and sublegislative acts to ensure that our agricultural producers have the maximum withdrawal of all available funds from the EU. For example, the Regulation on the insurance of crops and livestock must be maximum elastic, as each farmer can withdraw 75 000 euros per economy, which is more than 500 000 kuna free from the EU rural development measure where the maximum amount of support is 75% and the minimum damage must be 20%. It's all complicated now, but last year it wasn't like that and there was a lot of money left in the budget that wasn't withdrawn. Last year, the rulebook was bad, and this year it's getting better, so we hope that this year's withdrawal from this measure will be much, much better. Furthermore, animal welfare measures, so-called The above-standards of breeding are only now being done, it must be adapted to our cattlemen to withdraw as much as possible funds. Other members, e.g. Finland, for example, withdraws from this measure 300 euros per feeder for animal welfare, which means that veterinary care, food, animal keeping per year, which means that we remount every sow every year to the rich Finnish peasant. I would also like to say that various hidden subsidies, which are enjoyed by farmers in the EU, come from the cost of renting land, legalisation, and to the preferential electricity from biogas plants. Our farmers, today we have a thematic session on the subject, are having a problem with the disposal of fertilisers, in line with the nitrate directive, and have not been given the possibility of providing it in biogas plants at a preferential price, such as some other good, for example wind power plants, but have been allocated speculative quotas for non-existent companies that 20 megawatts should urgently put into function of real active cattleherds that produce at least 70% of raw materials and fertilisers on the economy. Therefore, it should be made very clear that farmers are not only the ones who collect incentives, but these incentives are the consequences of their work and what belongs to them. Personally, I would be happier if these incentives could be related to the product unit, not to the unit of the surface, so they would encourage quality and quantity, in which case the farmer would be very interested in how much production he would be if it were stimulated at the height of the incentive, but we know it's impossible because it's already negotiated. It is important to note that it is extremely good that recent years' incentives are paid right on time, meaning the advance in autumn, the incentives before seed in March and alignment in May. In this way farmers can count and plan their agricultural production and calculations. I have to say that, that we still don't have, and that is necessary, a review of paid incentives, so that the farmer gets the password on the account, but he's never sure if he's got a full incentive for agriculture or for breeders or, for example, for... I appeal to the Registrar to make an urgent change, as he promised these reconnaissances and to appeal to the Government for maximum exemption for support from the national envelope. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The support envelope is an imperative without which there is no competitive agricultural production as an investment through rural development measures and are invaluable without the full amount of support. Agriculture and the food industry are a strategic and national issue, therefore there should be a political consensus of all actors in order for trends to start in a positive direction, and the Republic of Croatia only to ensure sufficientness in agricultural and food products, and to enable the demographic revitalisation of rural space, national security through health, vitality and labour productivity of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81098	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić. We have several replicas, first replica of dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81099	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you said that some of them doubt our agricultural producers and why they receive support, so you said correctly that Croatia is an EU member who has a common agricultural policy and through its implementation because they are also direct payments per hectare and that is a common agricultural policy, we cannot change it. But what we can change is that more quality control is done to distribute these funds within the Republic of Croatia and through direct payments and through rural development programmes where we have seen that there have been a series of irregularities and that there are certain judicial processes and what is bad that through rural development programmes we have opened up the possibility of round agricultural producers owning but in the meantime there has also been an increase in price and equipment and repromation and there we have not done enough to protect them and I fear that they will again come into the situation as well as through operational programmes, that most of that money ended with suppliers of equipment and other materials and not in favour of raising production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81100	I thank my colleague Vlaović for the replica. The answer of my colleague Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81101	Thank you, colleague Vlaović, for this replica, for sure that there is a very important quality and transparent and transparent publication of all those who have received incentives and all those for which they have received incentives. Whether he's got for, you must know exactly if someone's got for 50 acres of incentive 2200 kuna or got 1800 kuna, whether he's got for 50 heroi 1000 kuna or got 800. In that case, the malfeasance will be less. So that visibility is very important. And as for rural development and rural development allocations, we know exactly what policies were before and in what way the conditions were artificially created, I think that these times are behind us and that this will no longer happen precisely because everything will be more transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81102	Thank you for your response, colleague Križanić. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81103	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Križanić, you mentioned the compensation actually of the damages in the context of the natural disasters that are affecting us, and there is a key question, and I think we also have the consent of the Ministry of Finance that this model that has been, where 20 million or what was 100 million should be allocated to a few billion kunas of damage, is simply unacceptable. But this is the support that when it is distributed to so many economies that are damaged in numerous elemental disasters, we see that it simply loses all meaning. Because some get really minor amounts and that's a measure that might sound good when the government says it has divided 20 million kunas or 100 million kunas, but that final outcome that the user gets can certainly not help a single agricultural economy or one that may be engaged in any other activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81104	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, colleague Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81105	My colleague Panenic and you and I, you were before me the president of the National Commission for Fundamental Accidents and you know both you and I very well that the state can never afford enough resources to cover all the elementary disasters from the state budget. The intensity is to secure as many agricultural areas as possible and then cattle as possible. We now have an ideal opportunity, a new rule has entered into force, I have already said 500 thousand kuna per economy can be withdrawn irrevocably 75 thousand euros, which is an exceptional opportunity for everyone who is more serious about agriculture to ensure agricultural production because without the insurance of serious agricultural production there will be no. The advantage is that after 30% of the state insurance payments are refunding the rest, direct pay insurance remains 70%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81106	I thank you for your response to my colleague Križanić. We're moving on to the next debate. My colleague Maras is gone. The following is registered for discussion by counterpart Panenic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81107	Thank you very much. I think this report as well as anyone who will be related to support opens up a question that when we look at the summary of the information actually where the support is going, how they are valorized and what benefits we have as a society. And of course every report and it opens up a number of issues that are problematic. Here and today, support for the shipbuilding industry has been mentioned. A significant part and the Ministry of Economy and they lasted both a certain time and, unfortunately, when we now return after all these years to watch the results where it says today in Brodosplit that there is a layoff of workers, then we wonder if we have followed that implementation well. And we always manage to create a situation where someone is questioning whether that basic contract we gave someone our support, whether he's performed his function, whether he's enough to be concrete, whether he's been formalized enough in a way that can't doubt a single break in it. But we can see that there are specialists who turn and good intentions of certain support to make it acceptable and in the direction she went and that's simply what's clearly a problem today. When we talk about support in agriculture, we are aware that, especially now, at the time of the revision of the common agricultural policy that there will be a reduction, the volume of first and second levels is reduced, the issues are being opened, other EU member states are opening up, whether they can make up for that difference. Of course, as a state, we have not yet achieved that share of EU co-financing, not that we are still giving our funds. But we are actually wondering if this is the right setting, whether we should just focus on European funds or whether we need to separate significant resources from our budget and help target a number of sectors. Today, at the the thematic session, the representative was from Austria who said 17% they separate in agricultural production for balancing, so the first pillar, the second pillar, the alignment. Right now that question is okay, and what exactly is balancing. All possible measures which Austria recognises can, in a beautiful hidden way, assist its agricultural producers in deprived areas that need such assistance. And then it's hard to explain that, here in the report we read almost one and a half billion kunas... has provided for renewable energy sources, and that this has mostly become an unwarranted cost, unwarranted profits from companies that, with those capacities that will provide renewable energy sources, have not justified that this is the maximum that could be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can see that by reducing these support, there was an area where there was still interest. And then we ended up in the situation that the support now for the renewable fees burdened the citizens, burdened our businesses, blocked the whole system so that we simply had to stand by and cannot resolve what Mr. Vrdoljak, then the minister, now part of the ruling majority, did with his actions. And we're still ready to question whether it's right, sure how it's going to work out with us when the judiciary does, everything's going to be okay. It's the best move we've made, and when the citizens pay, they've probably learned that we have to pay for it. Here's the program today, the national reform program, what's the basis? It's not just the support you give someone, it's what you set someone free. I was just following the question of untaxed giving so-called. parafiscal burdens, which last year were defined 20% to reduce from 2017 to 2019, went 20%, there are still some measures to be taken, but no more 20%. Well, it can't be when only half a billion of them have increased their obligation to compensation for renewables, which Minister Ćoric, as we say, simply let go, without a lot of questioning, without pressure on those who have caused it with their actions. He'd come down a little bit at the level, and there's a colleague who's opened up, that's the level of regional self-government, local self-government, their efforts. Everyone's just looking at the central state. The state has to solve everything, but then we ask you, does anyone defend any of the municipalities, the city, the county, that it is helping economic development with its measures? It doesn't stand anywhere. But believe me, this kind of example that we've seen now in this exhibit, which was, where significant assets stand out, there's relatively little. What is often met, and this should also be expressed, a little search for the answers, that support is granted beyond the programme and support that goes for small, medium-sized entrepreneurship, for agriculture, do not go as programme packages approved by the relevant Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, but are given by some decision, not transparent enough, and I think that there should be greater discipline introduced into this. In the report itself, I have seen one information about the protested guarantees, what we are all afraid of, and that is the issue of guarantees that we have issued, all governments have issued to support shipbuilding, it is clear to everyone, without such a form of guarantees, that large projects could not be financed. It's a general agreement that there has to be a mechanism. But justified now, fear that when we look at the situation in the olive grove where and at that time it was warned that the restructuring of shipbuilding is being overrun with oil, that the situation is actually more difficult in Uljanik than it is in 3. Maya. Then we missed the chance to actually stop it, stop it, clearly show that the oil situation was not good at the time. And I can say, since here with my colleague Maric, I was then and the minister, we may not have been enough to solve, we did not simply warn that something is going on there that is not good because different reports, different interpretations of experts spoke in the opposite direction. And then in the end you come to be an individual who fights certain experts who write the reports as they interpret them, in a way that suits those who receive support. But to go back to immunology, it's been protested there, I see 8.2 million kuna guarantees. This is actually a key issue, giving guarantees is certainly a mechanism that we must have, but monitoring the implementation, that is something that requires a more serious mechanism and is not enough to rely on these structures that have so far dealt with. The issue of the impact of all these support is a question of questions. Because it is not only to have historical specific support, so often they question and support in agriculture, although they are agreed at EU level and the model that we have had before and on, they are allocated by the production area, whether such support has achieved their functions, whether they have improved the situation, whether they should have been complemented with some other support and in any other sector a critical analysis is missing, that if we are providing support this year, that through impact assessments at the time of giving, that we can already agree, I don't know for a year if that manual or two years, we will carry out an analysis, we will determine the effects, if these effects were negative, such support should no longer be provided, because this support is no longer investment, but it is simply cost and it may have achieved only certain other functions. And then it wouldn't happen to us if we had colleagues here and between us who are accusing that certain support that was for one purpose went in the direction that they were building some tourist facilities, because that would be immediately clear because it happened or didn't happen. Because in case someone received support and he received for the development of his basic activity on which he based his company and if on the other hand he singled out similar or even greater funds for another purpose, then we see that this company did not actually need support. Because if it was supported, and then the same amount from one other accounting position went to another, then it's clear that this support just went through the company's account, and I'm afraid that we have such examples in the positions of local self-government, regional self-government where the funds that this fiscal balancing comes from are not the means that someone needs to spend there just as conveniently, increase the number of employees or in some other way and then complain all the time that there is no development, that there is not enough funding, but we see that efficiency and generally and in the use of support must be more significant, more controlled and more significant and more public communication must be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81108	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81109	Thank you very much. Comrade Panenic, you have shown renewable energy sources, the work of Minister Vrdoljak annually more than a billion kuna support. Shipbuilding, only in Brodosplit a billion and a half, when we take the Oil and the others, it's far more. Agriculture, it's also huge, and there's no results. So, the fact is that Croatia will pay between 25 billion and 30 billion kuna in the EU since 2014, and only so far has 3% of these funds been recovered, which means that huge money goes to subsidies and that we should simply review everything. And these subsidies that are harmful to Croatian development, as well as to the EU, which we pay a lot more essentially also causes damage. Because if we get only 3% back from the EU funds so far, then we're talking, we have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81110	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81111	Thank you very much, fellow Bull. In fact, that question is something that will certainly be here, and the minister will be burdened in future time. Because now comes the certification of a number of consumption that was before the time before he was a minister and we see that there are already significant differences in what the Commission would approve. And only 3% were included. Now there's something more going on, but it's for bad implementation on the ground, for those who tried to manipulate, who all the time are the means that they know they're coming and they're going to be able to use them and they're looking for a way to figure out the model by which they're going to assign them to someone who... This will be a key problem that the ministry will now meet in this and next year when it is certified much more and in general, the minister will certainly have significant remarks on this and let us also say to those who have implemented it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is necessary to invite people to the responsibility of publicly calling those who are personally responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81112	I thank my colleague Panenic. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81113	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Panenić, you spoke about speculative quotas, you spoke about wind power plants and about the promotion of energy from alternative energy sources. So we know that at this point we have 20 megawatts of speculative quotas for companies that don't exist. I would like to make it very clear that such quotas should be abolished, a new invitation to tender and the allocation of these 20 megawatts to agricultural livestock production which such quotas should be used on the agricultural holding where agricultural production exists, where bio mass and manure are created, precisely those 20 megawatts used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81114	Thank you. Answer, fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81115	Thank you, colleague Križanić. This is what I'd like to say, too, and spend the rest of our lives. What's killing us all together is that in that quota that we've determined, which was then determined, it wasn't me or you who took part in it, of those 999 megawatts, that 744 went to the wind power plants. I'm asking you, if our agriculture or our wood industry didn't have that potential or if someone had hidden the ability to recognize these agricultural producers, primarily I mean farmers who have farms, I mean wood industry that have processing capacities, if they could have set up bio-gas or other plants on bio-mass, they would certainly have created much more quality jobs and more sustainable agricultural economies and wood industry. Perhaps in these situations, it would not be a key problem now to discuss some wood quota that needs to be distributed because everyone ultimately wants to have a quality income on the invested assets. Here we are, I'd say, missing a historic opportunity. Let's not let that happen to us again. I know that demand, as far as biogas is concerned, was mass, not so large and certainly here, I expect in this time that it will be a quality program that even those who should, indeed, really should, talk about some even recognizable names in the wood industry or larger agricultural economies, that they too get the opportunity to have such a facility. Of course it also opens up the possibility for their cooperatives. We have to deliver, let's say, a certain sinister corn or something, and all that together is real support, and the wind power plants have shown they're not for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81116	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I thank Minister of Finance, Mr Zdravko Maric and Assistant Minister Kresa Dragic for the reasons of this year's report. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81117	Annual State aid for 2016, applicant of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion ‘1. The Annual State Support Report for 2016 is hereby adopted." Please vote. I find that most of the 102 votes in favour and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81118	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contributions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 296. Proposer: representative of Prof. Dr.sc Miranda Mrsic is a representative, respected colleague Miranda Mrsic on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The government has delivered its opinion. I call upon the motionary, respected colleague Miranda Mrsic to explain to us the final proposal of the Law. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81119	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary with fellow Members, although we are not much in the assembly today, I would like to discuss some of the problems that are very clearly addressed to this law. In the first row, I will talk about Croatia's salaries and job security in Croatia. One of the key reasons why our people go abroad is the low wages and insecurity of the workplace. And when the question arises for employers why, why don't they raise their wages so easily, our workers are not productive as workers in other countries of Europe, our workers aren't worth enough and that the salary offered by employers is quite enough for what they do and that they can't give anymore. And that if they raise salaries, then workers will have to fire, etc., apologies, apologies. But the statistics are inexorable. And when the latest European Union Institute survey shows that employers lie, that their profits should be shared with workers are stored in their own pockets. Because this research very clearly shows that productivity in Croatia increased by 42% from 2000 to 2016 in that period and that wages increased only 11%. So, gentlemen, three times less wages in Croatia than they grew in productivity. And translated, while our employers increased productivity by 42% of employers paid their salary 3 times lower. Is that fair, is that fair? And not only is that harmful to workers, but it's also harmful to society and it's harmful to the economy. Here I am sorry that the Minister of Finance left, I hope that he knows this data too, because this way as our employers inauguration and that means that the increase in productivity does not follow and the increase in wages will lead to an increasing income inequality or will lead to those at the top having high wages and those at the bottom have the least and will have even less. In relation to this question, it concerns several facts and the first question is very clear, and where did the difference end, where the difference between 42 and 11 is 30%? So somewhere these money had to end and the wages didn't increase, we saw that investments in Croatia are not so great. Thus, they could only end up where they ended up in employers ’ pockets. And how it is possible in these and such conditions and under these clear facts both on the left and on the right of this assembly to advocate the policy of raising employers. HDZ treats employers to the damages of workers with laws that are here and in this House, despite opposition from part of parliamentary representatives, and both HDZ and SDP are going to subsidise employers who, anyway at this time when workers are missing, have to hire them because in another way, it will not lead them to their operations and to have what they went into the enterprise themselves for, which is that they have profit. And the third fact that concerns me is the policy of Minister Pavic, who boasts that encouraging traineeship will affect the salary increase of workers. It's funny to listen to a minister who can't come up with clear measures for meaningful wage policy in Croatia because it's his job. His mission as minister is, in addition to what the picture on television is promoting statements for, plans for employment measures, his job is to solve the accumulated problems in Croatia from the problem of the pension system, from the labour market, from the problem I will talk about in the second part of my presentation. If wage growth is constantly lagging behind productivity growth, what will happen is that our workers will not participate in the division of values, acquired values, and that is what is unfair and what is deep, is wrong for society because it will lead to even greater economic imbalances, it will lead to even greater economic problems and I think that this is something that should also be very clearly highlighted in this home. And it's precisely the complexity of these problems that requires us to go systematically and start solving one, the other, the third illogicality in the system. And what I think in this House too, our focus must be on what is most valuable in Croatia and these are jobs. Not only to preserve jobs but also to create new jobs that must be safe because it is also one of the reasons why young people leave Croatia, why they do not want to stay in Croatia because they are offered poorly paid insecure, jobs. Some of these problems can be solved by quick interventions, and this bill is precisely that, therefore, it should not be a great philosopher and a great legal expert that some things can be solved by very simple moves that will ultimately lead to what we are here for citizens in Croatia to benefit from their representatives, to solve the problems they have in this part of the labour market. Working for a certain time is a rule in Croatia. Instead of exception, he became a rule. And when you look at the latest statistics, it's very clear, 90 percent of the contract on new employees is on the contract for a certain time. In 2017, 185,000 contracts were concluded at a certain time. What's even more frantic is that 55% of the contracts got women. Which are already on the labour market in an unfavourable position. When you ask employers why you give contracts for a certain time and you know yourself that you need these people and that you need them, that they are jobs that are not seasonal, but they are permanent, then you get the answer that you want to check whether the worker was satisfying or not, and the Labour Act makes it very clear that if someone does not satisfy the trial period that it means automatic cancellation. And when you ask social partners and employers and trade unions why in Croatia is this galloping problem and growth... work where the largest share of work is at a certain time, then employers respond to the risk of doing business in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's risky to do business, so it's also the entire philosophy of entrepreneurship that you go to risk, otherwise you put money on the bank, so you get interest, but the risk can't be on the worker, the risk must be on the employer because he's the one who's taking the risk of doing business. Here, by giving contracts for a certain period of time, we transfer that risk of business to a worker, which is not fair and not fair. And what's even more frantic is that the employer has no desire to invest in the education of workers because they're in his employ temporarily anyway. And if, as a country and as a state, we want to invest in workers, we want our workers to have greater knowledge, that they are better equipped in a market that is very radically changing, we need to provide them with a stable working relationship. If we don't secure a stable working relationship none of this will be and eventually we will end up the way we are supposed to be a country where rich Europeans will come to translate their old, that we will be a country of service, that we will not be a country of production, that we will not create additional values. And one thing we can very simply resolve these amendments to the Law on Contribution. The European Commission's 2017 report on Croatia is not that it is worrying, it is alarming. The European Commission's report for Croatia in 2017 points to a problem of segmentation of the labour market caused by a high rate of work contracts for a certain period of time. And that's what these gentlemen are for. So we're at the top of Europe by the percentage of the premium work in the total number of employees, 8.4% and here we are champions. The first ones behind us are the French with 4.8, almost half as much. The third is the Spanish with 4.7 and then the Poles and the Slovenes with 4.5. Isn't that what you're worried about? Doesn't that ring a bell? And that's something that this bill wanted not to solve, but that magnitude that was in a terrible swing to solve. According to the share of workers employed at a certain time in the overall workforce, Croatia is in a very high workplace. And it hits young people and hits women. They often receive contracts at a certain time, and this is what the European Commission warns us in its 2017 report and says that in 2015 in a age group of 15 to 29 years, the number of contracts means in a young population, those entering the labour market was 47.1%. At the same time, that percentage is 32.2% in the EU. In bad things, we're obviously advanced and we're chasing, and the good ones we're about to start. The European Commission also warns us that the share of the contract is growing exponentially and that we had 24.2% in 2013 and that in the third quarter, so we had 15.6% in 2013, and in the third quarter of 2016. 24.2% and this is independent of economic operators, has nothing to do with seasonal employment, has to do with the fact that there is a certain amount of time in Croatia. And for these very reasons, we felt it necessary to prescribe measures that employers would prevent, so no contract can be banned for a certain period of time, but employers can be deterred from concluding such contracts. And here I thank my colleague, Marina Kasunić Peric, who has made a great effort in this law, but I am sorry that we are not discussing with this law today in a package of amendments to the Labour Act where there is also another measure that will deter and should deter employers from making a contract for a certain period of time and that means that the employer who would give the contract for a certain time should pay the severance of that worker after the conclusion of that contract. And that's what kind of employers would point to one fact. You can give a contract for a certain time, it'll cost you more, but you have, you have the possibility, no one makes you give a contract for a certain time. You can give the contract indefinitely, and then it won't cost you any more. This isn't about penalizing employers, it's about having a choice. You want as expensive as it is socially and unacceptable, or you want to be cheaper or more realistically than it's ever been before, but socially acceptable. Why are we doing this? Why are we proposing a law like this? So you have examples in Croatia where the cashier got 36 contracts at a certain time per month for 3 years. And of course when someone has a contract for a certain time that he's subject to various manipulations from not paying overtime, doing jobs that aren't in the job description. And clearly, people will not report such abuses because they know that next time they want to get a job that this employer will not give them a contract to work in the company. And therefore, this law is a law for workers, this is a law for Croatian society. And I'm sorry that the government didn't recognize it, that it stood at the employers' side again. I am sorry that my former SDP colleagues also did not recognise it as one measure that goes in favour of society to make Croatian society more just. And that's not what we invented. It's the countries that have the same problem as us. Our neighbouring country Slovenia also had a large share of work for a certain time. And what did they do? What we're proposing, they've collected employers' contributions to employment. And? Is that working? Yes, it does, because it's in the 2017 report. The European Commission points out that in Slovenia the share of work has been significantly reduced for a certain period of time. Therefore, it is something that works and I see no reason why it would not work in Croatia. And I absolutely reject any, probably the secretary of state will talk about it and reject any insinuations and claims that employers are now penalizing, that we now have to free the climate in Croatia that this is a further imposition of wages and employers. No, because an employer can always give a contract indefinitely and then there is no additional cost. And while on all sides of the showers criticises that Croatia is the worst in the EU, not only by this but also by some other parameters, the government's argument arrives that the bill has been easily rejected because it came from the opposition without looking at the problem in Croatia. Obviously, for the government it is not a problem in Croatia to work for a certain time because that problem is working for a certain time then I would expect that with this bill if the government thinks it should be resolved differently that we have received a different bill. The government says it is not a problem that needs to be solved and on the other hand the European Commission has made it very clear to us, you have a problem, you are far above the EU average, please do so. Not only that, but the government has clearly written and characterised in its reluctance that the measures proposed by this law are administrative costs. Well, gentlemen, it's not an administrative cost because there is no administrative cost, that's what employers should think about being socially responsible and that there should be as little contracts in Croatia as possible for a certain time. But the government tells these young people and all workers in Croatia that they are an administrative cost to them, not the human potential that will build this Croatia. And this is the law we wanted to say, my colleague Kasunić and I, that the policy we stand for in working relations is, and in this assembly, I will strongly advocate it is to ensure stable relations, working relations in Croatia and thus to keep workers in Croatia. This law is likely to be rejected by the assembly majority, but it will certainly break in their heads very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81120	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81121	Dear fellow Mrsic, you said one more weight that employers and workers should share profits. I'm asking you to explain it to me and where does it say they should share it? It may be a moral obligation and it should be so because I have always claimed that profit is unpaid work in the Republic of Croatia but unfortunately it does not write and there is no legal provision. There is a union crime that unlike union centres, unlike European countries where they know the principles of industrial fighting, they know how to strike, they can fight for collective agreements and wages, we have this whole process, in the most part, lagging behind, so I gave you a replica just to explain, nothing will come with automation, but we have to organize ourselves as the structures of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81122	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81123	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, as an old, experienced unionist who's been through a lot of union fights, I think the criticism is directed to the right place and that obviously Croatia needs to be fought, if not by fighting arguments, then by fighting the street, to increase wages in Croatia. What is fortunate that Croatia has started to raise wages, but not because of the government's work, but because people have left Croatia, and that is why there is a lack of people who will work and that this is why wages are growing. And that's what I warned, that employers had calculated before, that part of that profit that stems from not following productivity wages, gave workers more wages, would not have given so many people left Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81124	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81125	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrsic, I supported this proposal of yours on the Legislative Committee and I claim that you have opened one very important or important topic today in the Republic of Croatia because today when you talk to young people who leave Slavonia, one of the most important reasons why they leave, is not only that there are no jobs, but it is also important or even more important that there are small salaries and that they have a contract of work for a certain time and then cannot go to a bank or give credit, or get a minus on a card, or buy a car, and simply in such an uncertain situation I can't plan a family and then we have a problem with eviction and demographic problem, they have a problem and our businessmen have no workers. And the minister must make some decisions as soon as possible, perhaps your proposal isn't good for them, but we haven't heard better. And the worst part is not making decisions and we're not gonna see what happens, but it's already happened, people are gone and there are no workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81126	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81127	Yes, unfortunately Slavonia moved out and what is now going to happen in tourism where Slavonia was a big crowd for the season in tourism that will have no one to work. And that's what's not recognised in these past two or three years when it's supposed to start with the pay increase because then we're out of recession and there's a mantra that says we have to improve competitiveness, we have to give the employers this, we have to give the employers what, so we'll give them everything, there'll be only one problem that they won't have anyone working anymore because they'll all be evicted from Croatia. And that is what you have also pointed out, which I suggest is a law which, if nothing else, should allow the contract to be cut for a certain period of time by allowing some of these young people to stay in Croatia, but also to have a part of it back, because it is better to have a job in Croatia indefinitely than to fight in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81128	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I call on the government representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric, to give us an explanation of the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81129	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable and respected representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions with the final draft law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Professor Dr Miranda Mrsic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and this act since 15 February 2018. In fact, the draft law proposes to supplement the provisions of Article 16. The Law on Contributions, in a way that prescribes a special increased rate of employment contributions if the employer has concluded a contract for workers at a specified time, i.e. Instead of the current 1.7%, the proposal is to make the rate twice as high, which is 3.4%. In order to work on an indefinite period of time, the rate of contribution would remain unchanged, i.e. 1.7%. Contrary to the opinion of the legislator, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, as well as the Ministry of Finance, it considers that this would be contrary to the very Law on Contributions to the basis of which the obligation of the contribution is linked to the property of the insurance and would also constitute a certain penalty or pension for the employer who legally concludes a contract of work for a specified time. In accordance with the Labour Act, an employment contract may be concluded for a specified period of time and, in that sense, the contract must be justified for an objective reason, i.e. the termination of the contract must be predetermined by the performance of a particular business or by the occurrence of an event. The labour law also provides for provisions that protect workers who contract work for a certain period of time. The first working contract may be concluded for a period of more than 3 years, but then the employer with the same worker cannot enter into the next consecutive contract for a specified period of time. And if it is concluded for a duration of less than 3 years, then the total duration of all contracts should not last longer than 3 years. An employer with the same worker may enter into any subsequent consecutive employment contract for a specified period of time only if there is an objective reason for that contract to be indicated. Furthermore, if the labour contract is concluded contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act or if the worker continues to work with the employer and after the expiry of the time it is concluded, it shall be deemed to have been concluded indefinitely. Also, if an employer fails to comply with the provisions of the Labour Act, then he commits a serious offense with which a high fine is threatened, between 31,000 and 60,000 kuna. In order to conclude a work contract for a specified period of time, the same as for the conclusion of a work contract for an indefinite period of time requires the consent of both parties to the essential components of that contract. The fact that the applicant points out, according to HZZ data, that, therefore, the Croatian Employment Service, the largest number of unemployed persons is employed for a certain period of time. The result, on the one hand, is the implementation of active employment policy measures which, above all, activate just unemployed labour at a specified time, and, on the other hand, the logical way out of unemployment, by entering the world of work, by concluding the first working contract at a certain time. However, a large number of newly concluded employment contracts are actually the one that has grown into contracts for indefinite working hours, which points to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute according to which the employment ratio has not changed for the past few years to those employed indefinitely, i.e. it is approximately the same and amounts to about 25% of the employment contract concluded at a certain time, according to 75% of the contract indefinitely. In addition, it should also be mentioned that the Republic of Croatia is among the top rankings of EU Member States according to the share of non-determined working contracts in total employment, and this is confirmed by the report... 2016 shows that the percentage of contracts in full and indefinite working hours in the Republic of Croatia is exactly what I mentioned earlier, so more than 70% of which clearly concludes that it is an EU Member State with almost the most such contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working to find a longer-term legislative solution that will address in a more comprehensive way all open issues arising from the general labour rules and thus the question of encouraging employers to conclude work contracts indefinitely. Following all this, I repeat once again, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of the proposed bill in question, and suggests that it is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81130	I thank the Secretary of State for this explanation of the government's opinion. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81131	Thank you very much. State Secretary, you have read to us the provisions of the Labour Act that we all know, and I would only read this to you, it is the 2016 Advocate General's Report on Gender Equality which clearly states that the Ombudsman reminds us that working contracts are at a certain level, according to the Labour Act and the legal property of the EU is an exception, not a market rule, because they bring employees into a particularly unfavourable market position, especially women. And one more thing, so I showed you this plate, I'll leave it to you. Croatia is 8.4% of contracts that belong to... form of operation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in your explanation, you didn't say in any of the points why not, which is why these laws don't apply. Why isn't this Law worth it? That's all you have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81132	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer, Secretary of State Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81133	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr Mrsic, you told me about the attorney's report, and I will tell you that this government has increased the minimum wage to a little over a year by 10%, that the average salary increase from 2016 to 2017 is by 6.6%, that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has provided 2 billion and 600 million kuna to implement active employment policy measures, which is never again in the Republic of Croatia and that all of what you are proposing could have done while you were Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81134	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. We have another replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81135	Dear secretary, I didn't see you deny what your colleague Mrsic was saying. It means it's a much bigger gain for entrepreneurs than it is for salary growth. You just said a little bit that he could have done it, he probably did and he admitted it. But I didn't see your proposal either, because the fact that the workforce is leaving is because it has contracts indefinitely, they don't have security, they don't have, uh, very low wages. But do you have any other solution because you haven't made any arguments that make people go away and less and less power? You're referring to statistical indicators. They'll be even more positive. The reason is simple. The workforce will go out, so we'll be, we won't have any unemployed in the Republic of Croatia because everyone will be this one, working out in other countries. So, give an argument and a solution. A colleague made a proposal, and it would be good if, no matter what political option, and when he was a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81136	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, Secretary of State Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81137	Dear and esteemed colleague Bulj, therefore, I think we should really talk very, very seriously and with the right data. So, the truth is that today in the Republic of Croatia we have record low unemployment. On the other hand, we need to be aware that we have 60,000 new jobs, or more employees than the previous year, which clearly deprives all those surface statements of the type, all those leaving the HZZ are leaving the country. That's not true, since we have an indication that 60,000 is more employees than the previous period. The very problem of demographics is that we're all aware of and it's not since yesterday or today, but it's very, very long-term, and besides, this problem is being solved long-term and it's giving results neither today nor tomorrow, but for some time It's our active policy measures with 2.4 billion kuna that we believe will also affect demographics. [[Intruding Millian Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81138	I thank Secretary of State Buric for his reply. I'm opening a debate now. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Contributions has proposed that an increased rate of contribution be prescribed for employment if the employer and the worker concludes a work contract at a specified time of 3.4%. To work on indefinitely, therefore for such contracts the rate would continue to be 1.7%. Whether this rate of 3.4% is stimulating for employers could be very much discussed. Of course, it is in everyone's interest to trust all of us here in the Assembly that in the Republic of Croatia we have as many contracts to work on indefinitely as possible, because that means safety, as the promoter himself said. But what about those jobs, so if the employer needs a person for a replacement, because of a long period of sick leave, if someone's in longer care and needs a replacement? We have a situation where mothers go on leave because of the severity of a sick child. And it's for a certain time. Many employers, or more or less, all employers have their own rules on the systematization of jobs where it is specifically stated for a given workplace how many executioners they need. And now, if they already have an employee indefinitely, they're going to hire the one they've received for an indefinite period of time. So what do we do? Is he gonna break that rulebook of his? It will. Because if you were ever in your employer's office, then you should know when the State Audit comes to your control or some control office that controls you, then they ask you why you hire 2 or more executives at a particular workplace, if it says inside that you need one executive? I've had a chance to experience it and read in the reports a reminder of something like that. So the opinion of us at the Croatian Democratic Community club is that this increase in rate cannot possibly be stimulating for certain employers. I could quote here and a series of examples yet, but I have no doubt of the proposal's sincere and good intentions, so that, as the Proposer himself said, we would have as much employment as possible indefinitely. But I'm asking the question here now, because I really don't understand, if that's really a solution, completely, completely, why hasn't it happened long ago, and it was possible? The opinion of us at the Croatian Democratic Community club is that this is half a solution, I'm not saying it's not possible, but it certainly wouldn't lead to any greater results, since employers will consider this a punishment. In comparison, employers consider it a punishment and that compensation, so they say it's an imposition, and that fee they have to pay if they are, for example. do not employ a sufficient number of people with disabilities, nor do they use a replacement quota, so they also consider it a punishment, let alone consider it a punishment and this increase in the rate of contribution. The report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows, I read, that the Government will deal with all open issues, so it has already started with, to really make, to find one whole solution so that in Croatia we have as many contracts to work on indefinitely as possible and that employers have certain stimulants to employ workers indefinitely. And as far as I recall, the promoter himself, when he was a minister, had just stimulated employers to employ workers, young workers indefinitely, so here's one option, but I'm sure the government is really looking for the best possible and best solution for both employers and workers. So, following the above, we have opinions, as I said, that this is not a complete solution, not to say that it is not possible, but it is not complete and we expect, and I am sure that the government will offer a more complete and complete solution to solve this problem, and in fact the facts show that even a large number of contracts, which are concluded for a certain time, are actually transformed into contracts indefinitely. Finally, I would like to point out that the following, the Croatian Demographic Community club will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81140	I thank my colleague Lukacic for this debate. Next debate on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81141	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Proposer, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates. Well, let's stick to what our roles are. So as representatives, we have the right and the duty to propose certain solutions and to advocate what we think would be good. The government can accept it, it can refuse, etc. various political parties in relation to us individuals can think it's good and it's bad, and it's allowed. Letting this law lead to an internal revolution, someone gets kicked out of the party. But the one who said that this man should be kicked out of the party has overlooked something, overlooked something. What's he overlooked? Namely, this law, my colleague Lukacic is my witness, and Mrs Buric has also given support to a social partner. So the trade unions were also for these solutions within the Economic Social Council and the Committee's performance, which means that the one who accused the applicant has given a shower to one of the social partners in the long term, which is not very good at treating one of the social partners who is significant in the long run. Secondly, this is a very short bill, there's not much to talk about, there are 3 articles, and I see that there's a lot of interpretation of certain statistics, but always according to that old principle, by the principle of bikinis, to discover what's interesting and to hide what's important. How do I see this problem? It is not a problem for this country that 24.25% of people have a fixed-term contract because 75% have a stable working relationship. The problem is that it is 370,000 of which 70% are constantly the same as those who have crossed the border from 30 years and from 35 years and from 40 years of age and are constantly being renewed for a certain period of time. So we have 370,000 second-class citizens who can't plan family or children or anything like that. Believe me, I didn't sign off on this bill. I've got kids working for a certain time, I'm not even gonna pull any strings or anything, because I want them to fight like I fought for 40 years, but believe me, it's not easy for them. And their friends and their colleagues live in such situations, and please plan a family when you don't know whether or not you'll have food, and they're proud, our children are proud, they're raised so that they appreciate both their families and their work and everything else, but we haven't given them the opportunity to make a move any more. Why didn't we? Is it a problem to look around, do we think we have to make everything up? So for 70 years now, the Republic of Italy has been paying both the severance and the work on certain and indefinite times, regardless of which, not the republic, but they have established a special fund in which both workers and employers pay monthly, regardless of whether I quit or got fired, it belongs to me as the necessary means to survive to another job. That's not how we do things. These poor people in these 370,000 are condemned to be the end of the world when it stops. It's just the end of the world. So, of course, we haven't even given the inspection, the labour inspector enough parameters to say if this is already a crime, this is a crime, but you can't extend it, but he'll keep an employee up to 3 years, so he'll rent it to the agency, so after a year, he'll take it again for 3 years, and it'll be 15, 20 years with a work contract for a certain time. This is our problem and I would above all like to discuss it in an argument and what is good for Croatian society and what is good for the state. Of course I don't agree that this is bad law and it's bad. He's good for the state budget in case the government decided to do this, he would get for these workers, for these 370,000 would get a double contribution to employment, if we understood each other. Maybe it could have been different. Maybe it could have been a bonus malace because watch out, system bonus malasses, I don't know how much you know, brought a little order in insurance. More abroad than in ours, because we're always prone to the agreed economies, but the system of bonus malasses works. If you do this, you have what's asked for, then you'll pay less. In particular, when you invest in protection at work, if you invest a lot, then you'll pay a small contribution, if you don't invest, then you'll pay at a higher rate. So this is nothing illogical. After all, you use as an inheritance from the last coalition government measure when a worker is employed indefinitely for an indefinite period of 5 years, he is freed for those 5 years gross 2, olives 15% of health contributions, which is not small money for the employer. So we already have these things on the repertoire. It's not the same thing. This is where the parallels retreat. I'd just like to, I won't be long, I'll say something in an individual debate, just so we can replicate, but I don't want to prolong. I'd think a lot about such situations, about such suggestions. It's not bad suggestions, maybe you should use it as a good provocation to start solving the problem, and I'd be benevolent and wish this kind of bill would come as much as possible. I think it would be, in a way, in favour of the progress of the democratic processes in the Republic and finally, what we want, which we do not have as a Croatian Parliament, that every MP may have a professional associate, that we can prepare laws here, that we can, as in some other parliaments, but obviously that we are not yet ready, are not prepared for such a thing. Here, I'll vote, regardless, I signed for an emergency procedure, I'll vote for this bill, he'll experience fate as it is, but I pray, in any case, that when the government discusses, as announced, some measures to address this situation, to listen to little and look and demographic movements and to do a little, if necessary, survey among young people, perhaps the Ministry of Demography etc. that we really don't get to know each other, so many people leave because it's low wages and says, except for low wages, we have a risk of a contract at a certain time. Look, if it's a solid salary, you even risk at a certain time to somehow endure and to cope. But if you have a low salary and a risk of a contract at a certain time, then it's pretty disastrous and demoting for every young man. The problem is not only in these three articles of the Law, the problem is much, much broader and I ask you to pay attention to this problem, perhaps some similar measure, but to try to come down to that number of these poor 370 thousand who rotate in these contracts of work for a certain time because you can't have 180 thousand new employees. Most of them are renewed contracts, these are newly concluded contracts and renewed contracts when you watch statistics. So I ask you to be extremely careful in that part and I think you should also appreciate that one of these social partners, not to be placed on one side, but only to protect or speak about the interests of employers and employment because, you know, I'm saying again, I'm going to say heresy, which some think is heresy, I'm firmly convinced that these social differences in the Republic and these even great breaks in large systems stand or rest on greed and unpaid work. The greed of employers and the unpaid work of workers. Why can't all merchants be like DM? Why does someone on the outside have to teach us what an appropriate employer should be and how to pay his workers. It's not my place to do a commercial to DM, at least I'm doing it from this constituency booth, but we still need to talk to the arguments, and we need to figure out what it is, and we need to pursue something that's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81142	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. With this, we've exhausted the debate on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to individual debates. A re-respected colleague of the Hill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81143	Oh, I'll just say one more detail like this in an individual debate. Why is work so popular with our employers? I'm sure it's not a constant need. After all, I'm an employer, I could give my party employees some time, I didn't give them. I gave them, I could do, endlessly test them, endlessly look for that bread next to the cake, but I didn't because I don't think that's the point, it's not the essence of the work. But why is it so popular with our employers? Because it's from some other science, some other theory of economics, that they treat workers as slaves. But that's still true. And our employers want everything, except they don't want to communicate with their employees. The less, the better. It's someone else's concern. You see, the Republic of Italy had protests where I participated in one of those. 2 million people brought in... in Rome, when they decadently said that according to the Labour Act, no contract can be cancelled without a written trace or even a contract for a specified period of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our employers resort to the contract for a certain time because they have no more touch, the day the contract expires, the worker goes to check out on his own and the story is over, the employer is gone, he doesn't see it. He doesn't feel it's the person behind whom the family is standing, behind whom the children are standing, etc. And that's why it's so popular with us. I'm telling you, in the Republic of Italy, no matter what you cancel the contract for a certain time, they'll write you a line, no more work, you're not satisfied with that job. You'll also give the worker the right that if he thinks he's satisfied with complaining somewhere, he'll intervene with the labour inspection. We maintain the status of second-class workers among these famous, maybe it's 350, maybe it's 380 thousand, but it's about that number so many of our employees, employees. I believe a number of them openly say wherever this evil fate has struck me, that I may be here. You know what their contract is to them indefinitely? Unfulfilled dream, life wish. I think in that story that we've told here tonight, there's a lot more reason for our people to go abroad, into something that's safe and stable, I'm no longer in the warmth of my home than we're talking about statistics. I think there's a lot more reason here than we're even thinking about right now. Here, I've had on this subject so much, once again I will support, I stand behind my signature on an emergency procedure, I will support this law because it's a good provocation, it forces everyone to think, it motivates things to change, it's a pity that there are no more participants in the debate and that people are preparing, preparing for this matter, it can be just this conversation and talking about this, and thinking about it can only be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81144	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81145	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, you told your life story about your children, which is a lot of citizens in Croatia. And not only are these people having an unstable working relationship, but they are also valued by their own existence. And when you're blackmailed by your own existence, then you agree to everything, you agree to everything you can stay to do because without it, you're on the street. And that is what is also the problem of this situation in which Croatia is. And this law is just about bringing these people back to where they belong, which means they have contracts indefinitely, so they are no longer discriminated against in Croatia. And I don't see how the government doesn't recognize it, they're hiding behind it again, we're going to do it, we're going to work, we're going to give a complete solution. And what is a more complete solution than this? It doesn't exist. The labour law has defined work for a certain time, here says about employers it will be more expensive for you, give contracts indefinitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81146	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrsic. Answer me, colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81147	Maybe I shouldn't have told my life story, but that wasn't the point, I just wanted to say I understand. I have confidence in my children because they are raised as fighters and will fight safely for their workplace and prove themselves working. But there's one story when you picked up the line, you gave me a chance to tell you again about something you warned about, and that's 55% here is a woman. We are talking about the catastrophic demographic structure of the Republic of Croatia, the inability to launch any demographic policy in terms of improving the indicators of newborn children. Come on, tell me, who among young people is going to plan a family amongst young people in these conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81148	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81149	Dear colleague Hrelja. So here's what I'm going to say, most of us have so many kids who are standing up and in the world of work and really are in the same situation that they actually do now according to the SOR model. And compared to SOR and what is now offered as a traineeship, I think a traineeship of 4 thousand and at least 200 kunas compared to 2600 is something very different than it was in the previous period. So, what I'm saying is, we need to look for models, we need to do better, it's not good that they're children, and that young people are on a certain, not long, if they are for a while, but we need to develop and that all those who go outside are undefined and that they are safe. No, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81150	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81151	It's not those who go out on a better occasion or get a contract indefinitely immediately and they're there on probation. But unlike Croatia, they communicate a little more with their employers and they know very quickly whether they have satisfied what the employer is doing on the labour market or not, so this story and this relationship is significantly different, at least according to my indicators. And the story of SOR and traineeship, the SOR was at a time of crisis the way he was, I'm not happy, I guess the former minister with it, too happy that he couldn't do it any other way. The traineeship should be better and financially, however it does not have some, at this point of great step. God forbid there is, I want them all to measure in some way as best they can, but every measure beyond time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81152	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. We've exhausted individual debates with this. We have the final word of the promoter, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there's a few of us, but I think the messages will get to those they need to get to. ... Yes and that is, I hope you will vote then for this law because 55.5% of women are those who get contracts for a certain time, that's the problem, that's the big problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry that the government hasn't, and she's given it a little thought, but good. Today he was adopted... in the Government, the National Reform Programme, and it is obvious under this national programme that the Government is not planning any reforms in favour of workers and those measures adopted today are going completely in the opposite direction, and I am calling here to move away from this paradigm that employers need to be served in order for Croatia to go better and I know that HDZ is the employer's party, I am sorry that it seems that SDP will also become a party of employers, but it is the workers who create the newly created value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the workers who generate the gain of the employer, and that is what we do here in the Parliament, if not employers, then we in the Assembly need to direct employers in that direction, that it is time for the gain that employers have evenly scheduled between workers and employers. And that's something we should talk about here and spend more time than we've spent on the Istanbul Convention. When we talk about active employment policy measures, they are totally wrong at this point because the risk the employer should bear, we transfer that risk to our society, to all of us who pay taxes and whose resources go to the state budget. So the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, through active employment policy measures, pay the employer's risk that things that he has to resolve, when we talk about a worker, so on employment of workers, about a contract indefinitely and for a certain time, this risk is transferred to Croatia. And I think the time has come for these things to change, that the time when there was a crisis, clearly that part should have been submitted by the state, and that's what the role of the state is, at a time when the crisis, when employers have no money, when there's great unemployment, then measures of active employment policy are how the state can direct the labour market. But at the time of the conukture, when jobs are opened, when we lack labour, spending resources on part of active employment policy measures and in this way as proposed by the Government is counterproductive. Under the conditions of the crisis, and that's the answer to our secretary of state, under the conditions of the crisis, workers have given up everything, a lot of things have been given up by workers, and now it's time for employers to give up on behalf of workers. That's when the workers gave up on behalf of the employer, just to keep the job, just to stay at work, just to be, to go to work in the morning, not to stand at home waiting for me to get a job somewhere, and the workers submitted great sacrifices. And now it's time to get back to them. To get their employers back, and if they don't want employers, then we'll show the employers what they should be doing here because we're both representatives of each other. It's been a while since the focus was on statistics. Here, the number of jobs this many, the number of unemployed this many, I think it's time to start talking about working conditions and start talking about it in Croatia, because it's something that will contribute in the long term to our young people staying in Croatia. It is unfortunate that the government does not read the economic and demographic effects of this law, although the government swears that the measures proposed by it will lead to economic recovery, demographic recovery, we do not see anything so far because it is obvious that in the government mantra we will make comprehensive, complete, complex, uncomplicated solution, so they will not make anything, and it has been two years for this government and there is no time for this government to make decisions that would be significant for Croatia. Workers who are at this hour of work for a certain time are, and not only are they valued lifely, existentially, but they are also valued in their rights because they do not have the right to certain things, such as III. A peace pillar in some companies, they don't have the right to do that, and I think you should think about it. And what is particularly in my heart is the hypocrisy of our colleagues, the parliamentary representatives who are not there, especially my former SDP colleagues who have no urge to be here tonight, to discuss this problem that is otherwise full of mouths, my colleagues, in discussions and within and outside the party, their mouths are full of work for a certain time. I'm sorry they're gone tonight, but life goes on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81154	I thank my colleague Mrsic. That's how it's behind your love. We have one replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81155	Dear Mrsic, you said one thesis that during the crisis workers give up, and the state helps employers, and now this should be the other way around. I think that, for a healthy society and for good communication in society during the crisis, both must be given up, and the government is invited to help, in the second phase, when they come out of that situation, what they have accomplished can be shared by each other, and in that case the state must reward them, can promote them, and no longer have to help. Because I think, you know what, if we always think that when we fall into a crisis, someone will help us either the employer or this, we'll never build a healthy relationship between equal social partners who will plan their own future, and the government will only be there to help, not force their own solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81156	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Answer, colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81157	A colleague of the Hill, that's how it would be in a non-normal world. I thought so, but we know our employers, that the easiest thing for them to do is to cut the rights of the workers because the worker always wants to stay in that workplace, and that the employers then forget all the victims that the workers made and to keep the job, to keep the company going and that we have a job. Clearly, employers have also given their pain to the crisis, but I say, it is time for employers to return now what workers have given more than employers in times of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81158	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Mrssic. I am concluding the debate, thanking my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for the reasons of this bill. I would also like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Mrs Majdi Buric, Assistant Minister Pavic, Mrs Karolini Ivanovic, and Head of the Office for Contributions to the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Drazen Opalic, for the reasons of the government's opinion. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. Tomorrow we will continue work at 09.30 in the morning with a proposal for a law on probation, first reading, P.Z. number 312. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.01 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81159	Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Contribution, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 296. Proposer is Agent Miranda Mrsic, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. In accordance with Article 201 of the basic Regulation, The Rules of Procedure on Amendments shall be made known by the Proposer and the Government if he is not the legislator. I would like to ask the promoter to take note of the amendment submitted, MP Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81160	... two key reasons. [[Specially enabled.]] First, the proposed amendment promotes a policy of rewarding behaviour that should long have been the only universally acceptable. This amendment follows the remuneration policy of employers who are employed indefinitely by freeing the payment of employment contributions, thus rewarding for employment for indefinite time that in our society should be a generally acceptable policy. I consider this proposal to be an amendment to the promotion of a policy that is generally unacceptable, generally harmful and above all inconclusive. Secondly, the remuneration and promotion policy of employers proposed by the SDP by this amendment belongs to the time of the economic recession, not the time of economic recovery. The law we have proposed follows the policy of establishing a fair and equal relationship between workers and employers, a policy of deterrence, rather than punishing employers to work indefinitely. The amendment advocates a policy that puts not workers in focus but primarily employers, or advocates a policy that indirectly advocates the welfare of workers through the direct well-being of the employer. As a person of the social democratic commitment, there is no way I can accept a amendment like this because we can help the SDP's policy to make the worker a better place in the past, and no way in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81161	Now the government's representative, state secretary Majda Buric, will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81162	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So at a session held on 15 March 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an opinion proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Proposer Prof. dr.sc. Miranda Mrsic. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support an amendment to this bill and again proposes that neither the amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81163	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the SDP Representatives Club's proposal, a respected colleague of Glasovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81164	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mrsic, for not accepting our amendment, given that the Club of Representatives of the SDP is working on its proposal for a legal solution that this issue does not need to be insisted on that amendment or to insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-26-0.u81165	You're not asking for a vote then, are you? Okay. Then we're going to vote now. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Contributions which is not accepted by the Government or by parliamentary working bodies. Please, let's vote. I find that the law has not been passed because it has not received the required number of votes. ... No, no, we've now voted on the law, the bill. [[You can't hear it.]]
