ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105925	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are based on the provision of Article 6(2) of the Treaty. 36. Law on the right to access information, published a public call for the submission of applications for the selection of Commissioners for Information, which was made on the website of the Croatian Parliament on 13 June 2018 and in the National Journal. For this round, there was one round before, in which unfortunately we had no more candidates, as required. The deadline has been 30 days since the publication of a public call in the National Journal. On 13 July 2018, the last day for submission was held at the 38th meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, held on 27 September, the Committee found that a public invitation for the selection of Commissioners for Information had received 5 candidates in a timely manner, one of which was found to be ineligible for the reasons for not being accompanied, in accordance with the stated public invitation, by confirmation of the employer's work experience in the profession, and two applications were withdrawn. So there are two other candidates that have been established by law and submitted by the Master of Science Dubravka Bevandić and the Doctor of Science Zoran Piculja. Since the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are based on the provision of the Article. The 36rd paragraph 3 of the Law on the right to access information sets out a proposal of at least 2 candidates for the Commissioner for Information, with a preliminary opinion of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, by letter of 27 September, the Committee sent to the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament for the purpose of giving a preliminary opinion. Also on the basis of a public call for candidates, for the selection of commissioners, and in accordance with Article. Article 18(2) of the Data Securitisation Act for candidates has been requested by the National Security Council for a conviction of a security check carried out and it has been established that there are no safety barriers for applicants for the Information Commissioner. On 13 November, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament held a joint session, inviting candidates for public talks. During the talks, members of both committees asked the candidates questions, on the basis of which they gained the impression of candidates, as professionals and persons. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System is available to you by the previous opinion of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament of 13 November, which pointed out that both candidates fully meet the conditions for selecting the Commissioner for Information at their 43rd session held on 13 November, held a vote on the proposed candidates and subsequently set out a proposal for a candidate, for the selection of the Commissioner for Information, as I have previously informed you, i.e. 2 candidates, Master of Science Dubravko Bevandić and Doctor of Science Zoran Piculjana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105926	Thank you. We have one replica, my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105927	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Committee. I wish you were here in this report means what was on the board, mention what kind of questions were asked, because it's very important for this debate. Namely, both candidates answered questions, were asked the question of the government's transparency, i.e., government behaviour, in solving the case of Agrokor and Mr. Piculjan, who is a former HDZ member, but also the State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, during Minister Arsen Bauk, meant an ideal candidate for a possible large coalition of HDZ and SDP, said that in this case the government played everything transparently, while another candidate said that the government should have been submitted much more transparently, to the public, to the media and to the citizens. I told him, Mr. Piculjano, that with that answer, he had approached Andrej Plenkovic but disqualified himself for this important function.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105928	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105929	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Grumoj, you know well that the reports do not really contain details about it and have never contained details of what individuals, any members of the Committee, any other parliamentary representatives who have the right to participate in meetings and to ask questions to candidates for various functions, as provided for by our Rules of Procedure, uh, what they have answered, what is who told whom, etc. It's spoken exclusively, it's drawn exclusively conclusions. The conclusion is that it's unanimous, and now I'm going to say, uh, whether this one's accepted. Therefore, this, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System has accepted both bids and forwarded them as it should, uh, to a plenary debate where the debate is actually being held and all you've said is the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105930	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105931	... For the sake of the public, I have to say that it's a lie, it's not unanimous because I said, "I don't agree and I can't support that kind of candidacy." [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the gentleman who gave that important question the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105932	I don't understand now, is it unanimous or not? Okay, I'm not going to go further into the controversy, uh, is, that's true, fellow Reiner spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, so I don't have all the information now, but there's no warning, nothing. [[Intruder: I am a member of the Committee...]] Let's go to the hearing now. It is the first club of HDZ representatives and respected colleague Suncana Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105933	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The public works, on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, as is the case with the Law, and, as the procedure requires, the Honorable Academyman Reiner, Vice-President of the Parliament, said what was going on on on the Committee that was able to call the public. The fact that it was a joint hearing or talks with candidates and with the Committee on Information, Information and Media is one other thing. What is important and relevant is that today we talk about candidates who made a public call, who met the conditions, and both candidates have a great résumé. However, equally, false information or misinformation appeared in the public, so let me just look back at the chronology, therefore, to the former Commissioner for Information, the mandate expired on 25 October, and the Committee called in due time for the selection of a new Commissioner or Commissioner in April. One candidate reported in accordance with the regulations as you know or in particular need of further apostrophe, at least two candidates need to come forward so that we can join the election. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of HS established a proposal for candidates, as said by Master of Science Dubravko Bevandić and Doctor of Science Zoran Piculjana. According to the Commissioner so far, and I think it is important to look back on this, support for the Commissioner's work at its beginning was only at the declarative level. Why am I saying that? When we talk about the Commissioner for Information, we keep mentioning that his or her actions are a powerful anti-corruption tool. However, in order for you to act, you must also have some working conditions, so I will just remind you in 2014 that in financial terms it was just over a million kunas, 2015. 2,300,000,00 kn, 2016 2,700,000,00 kn, 2017. 3,100,000,00 kn and 2018 3,600,000,00 kn, how much financial resources were allocated to the Commissioner's Office or Commissioner. I will return to the procedure a little while longer, a second call was issued on June 13th, as only one candidate came to the first call, the Committee found that there were 5 candidates, one of which was found to be ineligible for the reason that no employer's certificate of work experience was attached, two candidates were identified and two were withdrawn. On the basis of a public call, in accordance with, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty, 18th century 2. The Data Securitisation Act for Information Commissioners has also been requested by the National Security Council Office and it has been established that there are no security obstacles for applicants for the Commissioner for Information. The Committee on the Constitution held a joint discussion, therefore, with candidates, as I said earlier with the Committee on Information, Information and Media, it was concluded once again that they fully meet the conditions for selecting Commissioners. A little reminder of what the commissioner actually does. The Commissioner for Information protects and promotes the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed access to information and reuse of information, and the obligations of the Commissioner in accordance with the Law on the right to access information also relate to the implementation of secondary procedures in the cases of the right to access information and re-use of information. In the Commissioner's work, inspection supervision, supervision of the implementation of the Law, the establishment of international cooperation and cooperation with EU bodies is also the same. So, great powers, a lot of tasks, and that's why I mentioned those, no less important financial capacities that are needed to make one office function normally. Similarly, the current Commissioner for Information has organised a whole series of educational workshops, primarily for people who have to answer to citizens in accordance with the Law on the right to access information. This year it is also planned, have planned additional education at the State School for Public Administration, continue education for the level of local and regional self-government, strengthen the capacity of public authorities, the role of media and citizens in implementing the Law on the right to access information co-financed by the European Social Fund, etc. According to the latest report by the Information Commissioner, the office supervised nearly 6,000 public authorities but almost 13% of the public authorities had no information officer, yet another challenge for the new commissioner. Although, as reported in the 2017 report in which we had the opportunity to talk here at the state level or at the level of the state administration, progress has been made, the biggest challenges are ahead and ahead of the new commissioner in the so-called ". small municipalities. The structure and education of information officers will also be one of the challenges for the new commissioner as well as their education. Its basic function is to protect the right of citizens and I believe that one of the candidates, and this is about Dr. Pičuljana has a great institutional experience, in the making of regulations and I think that his institutional experience will be added value to the behaviour of functions as impressive is the CV and other candidates, and when we talk about the choice of Commissioners or Commissioners, I don't think we should be aware of what someone has heard, we must really give an opportunity to quality people who appear for a responsible function, and to whom we all call in the extreme case, or if we have some doubts we are just asking him to be in the service of the citizens and so the MPs in the Croatian Assembly, and then we are weighingly discussing the résumés of people who have responded to the competition. As for Dr. Sc. Piculjana, you saw the deputy minister of the administration, he was the secretary of the foreign ministry, he was a prominent lawyer, he was involved in making regulations, so he has that extra value or additional qualification that I think the Commissioner should have. My colleagues and colleagues, which is why I think it's a good thing that we're in the right way and what we had to do in accordance with all the legal regulations, I think we need to empower people and send them a message that is professional in the Republic of Croatia to report for responsible functions. If we're going to marginalize their knowledge, their education, their experience, I think it's just a counterproduct when we're looking for people who could help improve both our political system and our legal system, and so that they can be in the service of law enforcement, as the Commissioner for Information should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105934	Thank you, now let's go to another Club of Representatives. It's MOST of Independent Lists, dear colleague Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105935	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing the choice of Commissioners or Commissioner for Information, the important institutions in the Croatian Constitutional Order, it is the new institution that was behind us the first mandate of the first Commissioner for Information, and I remember how that institution was actually created at the time when Croatia was in the process of joining the EU when one of the laws of important laws, the law on access to information was in the process of adoption and when we discussed a lot about whether the head of the body that will deal with access to information would be one person Commissioner such as this in a number of other countries or whether we will have a body that will be otherwise defined or possibly together with the Personal Data Protection Agency. It was too much to go to the selection of the Commissioners for Information and I have to say one personal note, in 2011, I personally advocated the introduction of the institution into the Croatian constitutional legal order and I am glad that it was accepted, that we passed this law, the fact that this institution, I would say, was having some difficult labor problems, because in 2013 the law was passed quite early in February, it seems to me that year, and only in the autumn did we get an information commissioner. She was on duty as my colleague, Professor. Anamaria Musa and I would say from the present perspective that she was very good at doing this duty and that, in fact, in that first term in which she had this responsibility to create the role and activity of that institution, she did a very good job. Personally, I'm sorry that she's not a candidate now for reelection on that duty, but she's decided to go back to college and continue her career there. But the fact and that is to be said, and this should be pointed out from this speaker that the institution of information commissioners has done one quality proactive institution in these past five years has done a lot, not only on the education of many entities on the rights and access to public information rights, but has done a lot in terms of proactive policy and commitment to what this institution does, and this is a commitment and a struggle for the public to know. And because of that, unfortunately, we have today a choice between the new candidates who will one of them be acting in that capacity. I have to say on behalf of the club that in some way we think it's a little bit of a concern that we even had to repeat the competition for this duty because there have been too few candidates especially those candidates of quality as well as in the description of the law, so those candidates who are prominent experts with recognised ethical and professional reputation, experience in the field of protection and promotion of human rights, freedom of the media and the development of democracy. It is the key legal provision, the description of an ideal candidate who should be on the job of the Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information. Of course, with two candidates ahead of us, one candidate who has worked in the Commissioner's office so far, another candidate who has been on various public duties. Both nominally meet the criteria defined by law. What we cannot know to the end at this point is how it will continue to build an institution that has gained great importance in our constitutional legal order over the past five years. The fact is that this is a great credit to the Commissioner so far, because regardless of what she wrote in her report, to a bunch of different figures on thousands of public authorities' bodies and a number of information available to the public, what is important is to point out that the Commissioner has sought in all those key situations, in all those key requests of public importance information to go in favour of those who have complained to her and who have sought access to the information. And that's where she played a big role in me, and as a rule, what we saw in her reports was what she decided to give for the right of different natural or legal persons to ask for information of public importance that it was generally confirmed in the High Court of Justice. But let me now say on behalf of the club something that is very relevant what is actually happening lately and shows the importance of the institution of the Commissioner for Information. Just recently, there have been very significant cases from the public's right to know. The Commissioner for Information has given, in accordance with certain requirements of natural persons as well as NGOs such as GONG, the right to request access to information, for example on the granting of loans to individual natural or legal persons by HBOR. Unfortunately, the fact is also that these data are not yet available to the public because there is a resistance from the HBOR that it is not a public authority, that the bank is like any other bank, that these data are protected by banking secrecy and that complains about all instances, and even in the High Court of Justice, is seeking EU court intervention believing that this information should not be made available to the public. In fact, we have been facing a very, very important case for a long time in which it will actually be visible at the end of the story whether the public has the right to know and very important information, or whether their publication and the right to the public to be able to delay as long and as long as possible. In this regard, the Commissioner played an extremely high-quality role and was indeed on the defender's right to know. At this point, unfortunately, her struggle has not yet ended in the sense that the public really has the right to know that information. For those of you who don't even know about it, the State Attorney's Office has been involved in this story and has taken the view that the public should not have the right to know that information, that information about the loans granted by HBOR is a banking secret and that this is not something that falls under the Law on the right to access information. The DORH has taken a position that this information should not be given to the public. And that's what we're worried about because we don't see why the DORH should be involved in that way by making a request for an extraordinary review of the High Court's judgment. This shows that in some very important situations and this is one of those when it comes to the granting of HBOR credit, the allocation of public funds, which was totally unquestionable to the Commissioner that the public has the right to know this information, and this dispute has been already running between the HBOR for years, Commissioner, the High Administrative Court, the State's Attorney's Office, is now subject to the Supreme Court. It has been contacted and the decision has been requested by even the EU court. We only have left to include the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the story and, after that, probably the European Court of Human Rights, which has already decided in several situations on the right of the public to access information. So on one case that was written about, but not as much as it should be, the importance and importance of this institution has been shown. Therefore, when selecting the next Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information, it is extremely important to have access to the person in the further construction of the Information Commissioner's institution. Will it retain this proactive approach to independence? Will he strive to impose his position on both courts and the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court? Finally, the European Court of Human Rights also faces the resistance of any authority to keep certain information out of the open? And it's not enough to point out how important the question is. Personally, we at the MOST Club, too, that all the information on all the loans given by HBOR should be available to the public and the public should know all that information. And we are convinced that in this case that still needs to be settled, there is a series of extremely important information that we have not been able to get through investigating committees or otherwise, which have not been investigated either by the DORH and those information that are not yet available to the public, are extremely important to us. And actually, at this point, it's very important who will be the new Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information. And we want to raise awareness to the public, the media that this issue of election of Commissioners is a proactive policy in arguing that the public has the right to know, extremely important. This isn't just a simple choice of one official, this is far more than that. And that's why we need to stress our expectations of a new person on the job. Don't worry about how her decisions will be met by any authority. In its five-year term, it must do its utmost to justify the Croatian Parliament's trust in that duty, to have a huge responsibility to make one first-step institution respectable, to make an exceptional contribution to strengthening public awareness, to ensure that certain information that each government would like to hide from the public is available and that this struggle must be fought without compromise. The fact that every government will resist in this regard. Without exception to which the authorities are concerned because it is in the nature of the authorities that certain information wants to hide, conceal, not publish. And we appeal to a person who will be chosen to do everything to make at the end of his term of office of 5 years, that it has made this institution even stronger, that the right of the public to know, to make it better, that the public is more aware of the role of the institution in the Croatian constitutional legal order. This is what we expect from the person who will be elected, who will have the trust of the Croatian Parliament, that is the key. And whoever wants to be in that position must be aware that he will resent any authority and many public authorities because he is in the nature of the function he is acting against these institutions. And that's what we expect and expect from the public, we expect the media to provide maximum support to the person who will be elected to this post because it must enjoy that institution being able to build quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105936	Let's move on, now it's the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, Ivan Willibor Sincic, a colleague, but before that, a colleague of the Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105937	Your Honor, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club after this presentation by Professor The bottom line so we can consult at the club. In fact, it is quite clear that the candidate who has been written about by the media for days, who is pushing the HDZ, who is Zoran Piculjan, is not going to fill out all of this that Prof. Downhill. In fact, this man went to the board to court the authorities and those who should choose him rather than protect the public interest. He said that as far as Agrokor's concerned, the government did everything transparent and it was Professor. The mid-term was now saying that the Commissioner for Information should conflict with every authority so that citizens, institutions, natural and legal persons come up with information. We have a situation here to push a man who is a diplomat, who would be very good with both HDZ and SDP, is a man who was a state secretary at the Ministry of Administration during the SDP, a man who Mate Granic testified thanks to him, Zoran Milanovic progressed in diplomacy because thanks to the assessments given by Zoran Piculjan, who were very good to Zoran Milanovic, Zoran Milanovic advanced in diplomacy, means that is a man of the system, not a man who should fight the system to get so much information from citizens and institutions. So here it is quite clear that this man must not be allowed to be elected to this function, he is a man of the system, we could say the man of this great coalition of HDZ and SDP, and I hope that this Parliament will strongly oppose such a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105938	I'll approve the recess, but before that, a colleague named Glavak appears on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break in order to give my colleagues the opportunity to look at what the law says, to think about what they are saying, because Mr. Pichuljan is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia with all the qualifications needed to run for this duty, I think it is absolutely irresponsible, rude and very low in this way to disqualify a person who has such a CV, and besides that and his opponent, look at his colleagues, Grumia, see what the Law says, who the powers are, who you don't have a crystal ball and you can't speak of anything in advance, about anyone, it's an independent institution that we all call on, so I ask you all to take another look at what the Law says, which are the powers of the Commissioner for information and who is responsible. He is responsible for the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105940	Okay. He's also had one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105941	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Article 328 was injured, namely, the break is required to carry out consultations within our own club, we should not be told by our representative Glavak that we are studying some of the laws that they are therefore seeking a break. They're, uh, looking for a break for you to study your laws, because you're looking for a break for consultations within the club, not for consultations within the clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105942	Stanka is wanted for consultations within the club, but I didn't realize that my colleague Glavak was talking about everyone, but she said to look and consult again and study the CV, so she didn't call anyone, and I don't know why you got hit by it. Anyway, the break is requested and I'll see you at 10:20. MEETING AT 10:10 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] Now let's move on. [[Applause]] It is next to the club of representatives of the Living Wall and the Power, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105944	Thank you, Chairman. Today, the election of a new commissioner or an information commissioner is on the agenda. When we talk about the Commissioner and the Commissioner for Information, we talk first of all about transparency. This position is always somehow at the hands of all those laws that allow us, therefore, to obtain information, first of all, the Law on the right to access information on the one hand and on the other hand of all these laws that preserve some privacy or protect data from the Law of Personal Data and their protection, from banking secrets, tax secrets and all others, therefore, tools that try to protect information in one way or another. The more the commissioner has work to do, the less transparency in the country. Here, I'd like to start reading a few statistics in the last few years. The Commissioner for Information is a relatively young institution, I must say, we from the Living Wall, often criticise institutions as bad, broken, ineffective, because they are. However, this institution is not like that. Despite all my mistakes and failures, this is one of the better Croatian institutions and I want her a long life and the stronger development. For example, in 2014, there were 658 complaints filed and then on the 15th, the 16th, it remained here to 650, so that in 2017, the shock years of Mr Plenkovic's mandate and his government would be 1117 and almost 100% increase, double the previous years. As for the resolution complaints, from 800 we came to 1500, and from 524 to 1188. What does that tell us? This tells us that in 2017, and I suppose the trend is similar to 2018-that, although this year is not over yet, is very bad. So, citizens are increasingly complaining, on the other hand, they're increasingly understanding their rights, they're trying to bring down these obstacles to the intransparency they're facing. I had already said that the arrival of the government of Mr Plenkovic, especially after overcoming the HNS, had led to one march of non-transparentity and corruption in fact. Let's just think of the Agrokor Committee, let's remember everything that's been done with the settlement, let's remember the appointment of the Championship to decide on a conflict of interest. Well, even now, there's a danger that they'll be installed by the discipline of this ruling majority, which we know is how, someone who may not be the best choice for it. If it was, I wasn't on the board, I guess, for the media, when it was debated. If it is indeed said by candidates that in the case of Agrokor it was all by law, then there, you should be concerned about such an answer, about such an explanation. Any man who listened at least a little to everything that happened around Agrokor would not make such a claim with such certainty. At least he'd give some suspicions about the inspections in his answer. There's a string of things that weren't legal. Here, remember when Mr. Peru was on the Committee on Economy, colleague Pernar, Bunjac and I were there, so we questioned him, so we asked him why Mr. Peru you didn't publish the reports that you had to follow the law? Ha, he's like, look at you so, so, no superfluous answer, and that's how it went. It's just a little detail he had to do by law, he didn't. The second thing, the government knowingly likes to boast, is that they are classified, i.e. small businesses have been paid off. However, the classification of large, medium, small and other factors prescribed by the Accounting Act is not the same in the case of what Ramljak built, or Peru. They have made some of their criteria which is small, medium, large. And then you have companies that have found themselves in a disarray, which by law are, say, small, but by what Ramljak does, they're not. Is this illegality? Does the Accounting Act in the Republic of Croatia mean anything? Here's just one mild, mild cross to that element only. Therefore, by following all that was happening around Agrokor, no one should, therefore, be serious about making such a claim with such certainty. Let's go further, someone who should be a model of transparency, who should lead all democratic, therefore, changes, be a top priority, leader of all these changes and reforms, except the Parliament and, of course, the Government. I'll tell you one of my experiences with the government. We asked the government, Mr Plenkovic to tell us who was on two dates, and then on the whole spectrum of dates, was in the government building. If you're looking for the same thing from the Parliament, they'll give it to you soon, they have to give it to you, it's public information. And the government has to give it, there's been a constitutional court ruling since Sanader's time that's also kept the information that has to be given. However, Mr Plenkovic did not, instead of instantaneously saying that since the fifth month, we have been waiting six months for such information to be given. The government, it hides, it avoids answers, the first degree is the government, the silence of the administration, we complain to the Commissioner for information, or it's the Commissioner now, she sends the answer, she comes to us, say, on Monday, and in the government for 10 days she doesn't arrive even though the same delivery, the same postman comes and at the same time gives both places, I think even the same man brought it to both institutions that work for the General Affairs Office of Parliament and Government. A government like some kind of, I don't even know how to explain it, it's so, so cheaply worthless that such a serious institution as the Government avoids receiving mail, be careful to avoid receiving mail. And something that she was about to give instantaneously, in a normal state, no, for six months now, she's never gonna let it go, and everything seems to me that we're going to have to go to the Administrative Court. So I have to end up in the Constitutional Court, it's also embarrassing. All this is about the march of non-transparentity, the march of corruption, the degradation of institutions, and I would not believe that this institution will be demoted, that this is all that has been done well, much has been well done to question it. Apart from the government, it is very difficult to work with public enterprises, there is only disaster, intransparency, haughtiness, not understanding laws and respect for citizens' rights. Ask the Croatian Railways who were directors or members of the Supervisory Board 5 years ago, there is no way you will get it, there is no way either the Croatian Forests or we have heard earlier Banks for Reconstruction and Development, hiding information like a snake legs, in all possible ways all the suits are there just to hide and to make it impossible for citizens and institutions of others at the end of the day to learn certain information. Well, in previous councils, if I recall, it was a problem to find out how much Mr. Radman then, the director of HRT has paid. Who is he to answer and obey the laws? It needs to end, it needs to be fought, a test of proportionality another problem, you ask them something then they refer to that test of proportionality. We can even talk about the test of proportionality about the constitutional category, why, because it is in Article 16. The Constitution described this, however, the problem is that there is no at the level of the Republic of Croatia for all bodies of public authorities prescribed test of proportionality or at least some of its basic characteristics, so that in fact every body of public authorities so at least say in the Commissioner's office somewhere in some way doing this test of proportionality now they will test it if you can't get it, is that something secret or not secret anymore and then after that some test they will normally tell you no, no, it's not secret that you have the right to ask, you have no right and shame either. So we need someone really who, who will have the energy, the courage to continue what this young institution has achieved that will not therefore be able to face the horns, I'm sorry that there are no more candidates, and here I would really like more candidates to have a bigger choice but here we are, where we are. Here is one of the good examples of the work of the Commissioner I will only specify this solution since 22 October of this year, so it is that the councilors, as a rule, filmed meetings of city, municipal councils, city districts, etc. and then there is a regular resistance from the old structures, bans, out-of-sessions all that is not similar to Croatia in 2018, but may be similar in some other time, and at the end of all that, the Commissioner said, if the City Council session is open to the public, there is no obstacle for council members or the public to film it. There. It is crucial that what is really logical and normal, if the sessions are public, if they can come public, then it is logical that the media is transmitted, as is the session of the Croatian Parliament. Imagine someone shooting from the gallery or somehow a session of the Croatian Parliament and then the guard kicks him out is that's what you have to film there. I am pleased that the institution has done in this case as logically as normal and that I believe every open heart interprets the Law on the right to access information and certain statutes of cities based on laws. When we talk about transparency in the Republic of Dalmatia and the degradation of institutions, perhaps the most picturesque example of degradation is the downgrade to the lower classes, when you have a nice pine forest in Dalmatia, then the fire cuts it to you, and then the maquis comes to you that little one, meaning the tormented life form, degraded only the shadow of the former, the former situation, so we are here after the amendment of the Rules of Procedure in a situation that doesn't answer the questions of representation, you can hear from those MPs that these deadlines have been broken for 30 days as defined by the Rules of Procedure, that it doesn't answer questions, and often when it's not good answers, here I personally say statistics recorders, I have sent most of all the representatives, and with colleagues together I think that we're about half of all sent, there's no connection, and I often send my questions in a way to count 1,2,3,4 so questions, such school as it is done. A lot of questions, so I'm looking for a full answer. And what do I get back to such a systematic response? I get one mass of text often in one piece without a head and tail with some kind of relativation, referring to the other and actually useless. Well, it's the same picture and opportunity of the transparency of Croatian society at this point and that's what we're fighting for to change to get the excess answer and what's most important in time, not after 6 months or never, but within 30 days. After all, on the one hand, I want the Commissioner to do as much work as possible, to solve as many cases as possible, on the other hand, I want him to have as little work as possible, it's like a doctor, we want a doctor to do as much work or as little work as possible, to have as many sick or to have as many working hours as possible. That's right, on the one hand, I want him to have as little work as possible because it would mean that we've made progress as a society that transparency is something normal, in itself understandable, acceptable, and that there's no need for the Commissioner for Information to constantly intervene and that it's being buried and I want whoever is elected to it, yes, I want him to have a lot of happiness in his work because this institution needs to be kept and developed and it's very important that we have it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105945	We're going to the next debate, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105946	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of the GLAS Club and HSU's appearance, I would like to remind you that the Institute of Access to Information has been building hard and very long. It was a kind of test of the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to align, not only with the criteria we recognise in the countries of the democratic world, but also with our own awareness of the need for the development of society, the need to define the state as a real service to citizens. Unlike other countries, the countries of the democratic world, when I say by contrast, I believe that the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately still in a transitional period in which it suffers from many children's diseases to develop democracy, where, unlike these countries, where each Constitution and the Law define law, the right of citizens is automatically consumed. With us, the right to access information and as a Constitution defined the right developed by a special law, can only be achieved if you call for the right under that Law. So if you ask a question to the body of the public authority, and do not refer to this Law, specifically, your body is not obliged to answer at all. So it's in itself already a paradox that says that by bringing this institute into our system, we kept the figs under the table. On the other hand, this battle has been going on, I'd say for 15 years, and in the last five years, we can say that a model that has started to work, in which citizens have had a lot of hope. In those situations where their right to dispose of relevant information is denied which is relevant and for the achievement of their life needs. This is not just a question of someone's whim to know from the warmth of their chair something about the work of a Body, a administration with which they will never come into contact, but above all the possibility and the need for citizens to, when on the other hand, find a state or a body, specifically a body with public powers, know that it is not deceived, know that it can use the right and that the right will be used within reasonable time. Many citizens who spoke to the Commissioner were actually on, in some situation where they did not know where they were going anymore, because the administration refused or ignored them, of course we understand the nature of bureaucracy, it is the same everywhere, it does not want transparency, it does not want a system of surveillance, it does not want to be asked how it should be answered, because the nature of any bureaucracy is that it works as little as possible to the public eye and public questioning for a whole series of reasons. They can also lie in the mode of work, as well as the bureaucracy itself, which can be slow, trom, inefficient, inconsistencies, inexplicable, non-transparent, but also in the effects that are seen then into clienteleism, nepotism, ortacres, and in all such cases when bureaucracy wants to be an arbiter in relation to citizens and state, of course it does not need any institute of supervision, questioning, pushing, rushing, such as the Institute of Information Commissioners. And this institute is one of the key institutes in the development of free society, free from corruption, clientism, nepotism, favoration, illegal mediation, setting up jobs and creating partner, family and all other relationships, in which some, closer to the political altar, are better heated and paid, and those who are not, must be exposed to a much higher level of risk, both in their business and in their public action. Therefore, a good, strong, efficient, well-funded and supported, independent and indisposed to party will, the Institute of the Information Commissioner, is extremely important in the development of these, therefore, elements of democratic society. And it is very important that this institute produces effects that will give citizens an impression, a sense of belonging, loyalty and satisfaction to that country, and not the other way around, therefore, disappointments, revisions and infidelities, that the state they are paying is able to protect him or her, his right and the possibility of participating as a specific, quality and engaged citizen. In this sense, the GLAS Club and the Croatian Party of Retired, wants to take the opportunity to thank Mrs Anamaria Mussi, who has acted as Commissioner for Information for 5 years, so, one mandate, which is persistent, professional, without any, I would say, signs of fear or compromise towards specific political elites, developed this institute, developed the Office, and my team, in a way that has become increasingly functional year after year. Let us remember those years when we didn't even have a list of bodies of public authorities, let's remember the times when they refused to be included in that list, i.e. the illegal and arbitrary legal persons themselves, excluded everything from that system, in fact refusing to provide information that was publicly relevant, relevant and useful. You remember, for example, when it comes to the Croatian Parliament, how the directoral HRT for months refused to publish the level of salaries and special additional agreements that it had with its employees despite the fact that the Croatian Parliament had committed the directorship to publish it. The Commissioner did not ask herself about the heroic health of all institutions that refused to make a transparent decision either when it comes to government or individual ministries, but also to the Office of the President of the Republic. Many in this regard probably resented but showed consistency, it showed that false political authority cannot be in front of public interest. And whenever it comes to spending public money or providing citizens' services it has to be a matter of public interest, having the right to question and having the obligation to make such information public. Of course, those with small administrative capacity had problems in fulfilling their legal obligations, I mean small bodies, in municipalities, took time to realize that, despite all their capacitation limits, they had to be equally accessible to citizens in providing relevant information as well as large systems. I'm going to remind you of an eclative example that shows that the system as such and the government as such refuses, naturally refuse, because that's what I'm saying is the nature of bureaucracy, especially when it's twisted by a political elite that doesn't like transparency because it's really about work that won't be subject to the public. So I'll just remind you of one case. President of the Citizens' Liberal Union and our club, On behalf of our club, Anka Mrak Taritaš asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia a specific question about the financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia to the so-called so-called government. Vatican contracts. The first answer that arrived was so unsavoury and so subtle that it was impossible to read a single tenth of the commitments, so it had to be asked twice and for the third time and for the fourth time. And after all these answers we know exactly that we are not responsible for everything we asked because the government is hiding or trying to make invisible or unknown all elements of the Republic's obligations to the Holy See and the Catholic Church in the Republic that are enormous and certainly not consistent with the possibilities and needs of our society. This is only one example where the highest executive authority in the state, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, systematically avoids answering, I would say and hides information so that no picture of the real situation could be put in place in public on this particular issue. Now imagine how it is only when on the other hand a body of public authorities has lower powers at lower levels but which it also has public means or makes public and relevant decisions. If the presidents of one parliamentary political party and one parliamentary club refuse to provide relevant information, if no information and answers to parliamentary questions are provided in time, then you can think that only the Government and other public authorities refer to a citizen whose name and name has no public weight, in some position. In this respect, the Commissioner for Informing Anamarie Musa has taken huge steps in the past 5 years to trust the institution and to enable it to remain independent of both the policy and the parties and to create a platform on which the institution will develop further in a future term. The GLAS and HSU club is not for any solution that brings to the head of this important institution someone who was a state official. A state official, it is clear that a person who enjoys the trust of a particular political elite, is a particular party in power. So, no matter what you all do Regardless of the fact that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who meet the law and the public call can, of course, access and run this House should, however, be kept in mind that the place of the Commissioner for Information is not being placed by persons who are politically marked, who are party-friendly, any of the parties that are manageable in this regard. [[Invader President: Comrade Grmoi, colleague of the Grmoi, speak very loudly, I ask you to be a little quieter.]] Because this institute should be built in terms of its continued independence from both politics and parties and not subject it to political control. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU club cannot accept what has been heard in recent days as an announcement that a person with a public official’s career is appointed as the Commissioner for Information. We are also asking that this institution ensure continuity in work, that it does not move from minus, zero or unknown, but that in developing it, as such and continuing the work of the Information Commissioners, it can go forward in developing this institute and building its political independence. In this sense, the GLAS and HSU Club suggests that this selection between the two proposed candidates, the Croatian Parliament, which has also worked in this office and who knows what it is, not only at the level of participation in the writing of the law 10 years ago, but at the level of operational, efficient and quality work of the Information Commissioners Institute itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105947	Before we move on to an individual debate, I would like to welcome the second group of students and pupils of the Markusevic elementary school. Welcome. We are now going to an individual debate, first in line is respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105948	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The topic is the choice of a new person to act as Commissioner or Commissioner for Information. In my personal opinion and from 2013 to today, since this position has actually been established, and these tasks of the Commissioner's office have been done a lot and practically ever since that function came to life, let's say that significant steps in transparency have been done. First of all, steps have been taken in the sense that individual state and public bodies have to work more transparently. Otherwise, this law and the Commissioner's office and the whole function, we know it well falls under those laws that were actually necessary for Croatia to join the EU and which were one of the conditions and then in 2013 when this office was actually formed, the whole story started without any previous steps being made but it was neither the first nor the last time to go into the realisation of any law or to form a body without previously being made any preconditions. And when I say preconditions, then I mean, first of all, human beings, material and even spatial conditions in this case, and I say, I could cite a few of those cases if we look back from 2000 to today, so neither the first nor the last time. And what's important is to say here and to me, some two questions here are important, so, is the existing work and I say that it was actually done really professionally in relation to what could have been compared to the law and the inadequate conditions, whether the existing work could have been even more adequate that it was under a) more financial means, and I said where the deficits showed up and that several do-overs were done, i.e. improvements in the legal framework. To me, the answers to both of these questions are yes. When listening to candidates for a new Commissioner or Commissioner, I asked one candidate whether given the practice so far, and now we have a greater distance than 5 years, we saw the need for finishing, or the improvement of the legal framework. The answer was diplomatic that at this point it is not visible, it is not necessary, but it is a bit of a concern to me, regardless of the preferences for candidates, so I do not see candidates as persons and their work so far is particularly important, but at this point other than their work so far, it is important whether the candidate has a vision of future work. Because this institution should have continuity in terms of quality future work and that the one that is good continues and those deficits, whether material, whether human or others, should be improved in the meantime. And now, if the work of the Commissioner's office so far has been objectively followed, and the answer has to say that there is a need to amend the law because, as I said, this law was passed under certain circumstances when Croatia joined the EU, when it was one of the conditions, etc. And you can't say after five years there's no need for law enforcement. It doesn't have to be some kind of drastic law-making, there are really concrete examples in these 5 years in practice that have shown which are weak points and indeed there are several weak points. Of course I won't name them all, but there are some of the most important things to be apostropheeded. One of the weak points is the fact that criminal punishment couldn't have been effective. Here's an example, I won't name any bodies individually, but some public authorities felt that they didn't have to implement this law and that they didn't have to be transparent to the citizens, that is, how it always happens in practice, there's a way to avoid the law. Then, when a misdemeanor is initiated, the infringement procedure usually takes a long time and if it doesn't last long, it takes a long time and falls into oblivion or some other complications occur. So this is the weak spot of the existing law and we see that that's not the solution. In particular, in 2015, the information commissioner wrote literally to everyone, wrote to the prime minister at the time, wrote to Mr. Lalovec, wrote to many, and clearly and unequivocally pointed to the need to amend the law, or which bodies did not implement the law or how that law should be improved. But then there was no answer, or Mr. Lalovec replied, sorry, but he replied from his financial aspect why the office's budget is as it is and why there is no room to be bigger. So there was no hearing in 2015, there was no hearing either in 2016 and there was hearing and that this office could have worked perfectly well they would have practically saved money to other institutions that cover similar jobs like DORH and like some other institutions, and we know it well. And what needs to be stressed, so there can't be money to enforce the law as much as necessary, so since it's a body that needs to control the transparency of other bodies, then there's one thing that I agree with. If you do not want to know how much you are paid, although you consider this information something that should not be transparent, which should not be made available to our citizens, so do not deal with the state, then do business in the private sector and then there is no need for transparency and there is no need for this information that has proved necessary. Citizens under that law have the right to know. Another thing, that citizens didn't use this law enough in the sense that they were seeking their rights. There have been cases where citizens sought rights, and yet they could not get that information, there have been cases where the media actually used very poorly this institute, and they could do more. And so, these are some cases that have been shown so far, and what the taste is, in fact, stories, when this Law passed by the SDP government, it did not ensure its execution. And this Law was carried out in such a way that it could be carried out in view of the circumstances. And now we're in a situation where we are, we have the law, we have employees who want to work, we even have the possibility of financial assistance from the EU, so we have the will, we have the care. It is important to choose a person who will, therefore, continue his continuity and who will not allow the destruction of all the good that has been done despite all these conditions that have been at all commendable. Many have said that the Law is apostrophe as one of the key anti-corruption tools. Those who know less about this law will say, so why? We've got DORH, we've got the police, we've got some other bodies. So because this Law and this Office allow citizens, media, therefore, by the constitution of a guaranteed category, to demand from local authorities, from the state authorities, therefore, and from the public administration, accounts for their work. So any citizen can ask for that information that he has the right to receive under the law. I say, unfortunately, many citizens don't know about that possibility. If there is enough hearing to edit those weak spots that this Law has shown in the meantime, if the continuity of all that was good continues, then this Office and the Commissioner will make even more sense and then the Republic of Croatia will take a step towards greater transparency and better monitoring of the spending of state and local money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105949	Thank you, too. We have four replicas on your exhibit. Comrade Bojan Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105950	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, thank you for the debate. Actually, I wanted to refer to the part where you actually pointed out a series of problems that exist here. I think the actual subject of today's debate, more than anything else, is more than a nominal staff issue. It's supposed to be these very problems that you've been talking about, and here's a thank you, I mean, I'm glad to hear from this side of the assembly one such perspective, and hopefully, it's going to be some kind of awareness indicator about it and there's actually going to be some results in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105952	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's more of a comment than a replica. But then in 2013, it's not a negative remark, it's a positive one. In 2013, some institutions from the EU and even a little further, the Republic of Croatia apostropheed as, let's say, one of the countries where hyperburyocracy and corruption are significant. And in light of that, this office was formed, and in light of that, that office came to life. From 2013 to today, this percentage has fallen significantly thanks to the work of this Office. And that's why, together with all of you and all the well-intentioned and moral citizens, I hope that we will continue in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105953	The next replica of my colleague, Nicole Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105954	Thank you, Vice President. I am moved to see this agreement between SDP and HDZ, even here are colleagues Glavasevic who say this is not the topic of the debate of staff solutions. Well, the personnel solution and the head of that institution is exactly the most important thing in this debate, and you were alone, she was a colleague of the Committee. I ask the question of a colleague who was on the Committee, what she thinks about, so that candidate Piculjana, about his answers that everything was transparent, that the leaders of the body should not, uh, be sanctioned, but that this function and that institution should be more in the service of education. And there's almost all the members of the Committee criticized him, and now you agree that he's a good candidate and you don't want to talk about him at all as a candidate, but you're talking about some perspective that should be, some principle story. We're talking about specific people. This is a discussion of two people who will be key One of them will be the key man of that institution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105955	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Before the replica, colleagues of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. 238. So, at no point did I say in my replica that I support someone, nor did I work out how I think this isn't, therefore, that the staff issue doesn't matter, so here, my individual debate is going soon. Don't jump to any conclusions, give me a chance to explain, and then we'll talk, you'll get a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105957	Well, the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt, so we're moving on with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for using your esteemed colleague, Mr. Grmoy to twist the facts. My colleague Glavasevic and I agreed that hyperburocracy and corruption was a problem in 2013 and that the office contributed to making this problem smaller with its work and action towards transparency. As far as individual colleagues are concerned, I said clearly in my debate that I had asked whether the candidate or candidate saw the need to amend the law, and since the candidate or candidate said that he did not see that it was something that was worrying to me, and on this thesis alone, plus these other issues, based his own debate. Those are facts, and what you said wasn't a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105959	Next replica, colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105960	Thank you very much. We have had the opportunity to hear that candidates who are now appointed have been appointed by some democratic principles without party pressure, and all that is now called this goes according to some kind of party principle. It's something that just isn't good. However, what is very interesting when these independent leaders of such institutions are not re-elected at once from their public action you see their political and how the commitment and belonging they have skillfully hidden, but when we talk about this agenda point, you have reached only one small segment. Such institutions, if they are not materially and financially supported, cannot simply do their job in a quality way. In order for this job to work quality you have to create preconditions, and whether candidates have or do not have a professional qualification it says here, and we will discuss their work next year, that is to be all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105961	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105962	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Shucker, I fully agree, and we also apostrophe as one of the problems, without an adequate budget, without adequate financial support, the office cannot work humanely, cannot work in the extent to which it should and cannot be expected to start when there were 4 and 5 employees, and now as far as I know there are 16,000 public bodies, so it is simply a mission that is impossible. Also, as far as the candidate's election is concerned, I think we'll make an adequate decision based on the curricula that we've been working on, whether the candidates will later perform that function according to what our expectations are, we'll see it already on the first report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105963	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation, colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105964	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I think you hit the core in the debate, which would be the reason for hiding information from citizens. Basically it's money, it's always money in the game. I agree with you that the basis of anti-corruption, the fight against corruption is exactly the role of Commissioners and you mentioned one important thing, and I, because of Croatian citizens, should be mentioned several times. We have 50 billion reasons for this, namely so difficult public procurement in the Republic of Croatia and there is no reason to hide such information from citizens, the reason can only be in the area of corruption and here I fully agree with you. So, these processes must be transparent, citizens need to get an answer on such issues and, as is the case with small resources that would be invested in the work of this commissioner and his office could be regulated by the great money that currents, currents and passes through his hands. and often ends.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105965	Answer me, here's your co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105966	A respected colleague, of course, will agree that it has not been a problem so far in the person of the commissioner or commissioner but has been a problem in those who break the law. If we had achieved a situation in society that the laws were not broken then I guess we would have lived in an ideal world and lived in a fairy tale, and not in a country, unfortunately that ideal has not yet been achieved anywhere, but it is up to us to strive to make that ideal seem as soon as possible. I personally find it a little frustrating that I personally have to follow the law and someone else doesn't have to follow. This frustration often in society can create resistance, and resistance creates unrest and we know where it can end. So I think it would be our goal to actually follow the law as much as possible, and we here as a legitimate body and as an example, we can show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105967	Thank you, we continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Nikola Grmoja, who will be his colleague, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105968	Thank you, Vice President, instead of this principle debate, that this body or what the Commissioner should do in what way we should help him make his job easier, we need to talk about the metrics here, and the measure is the choice of a leader, we have 2 suggestions. Those on the Committee on Information or at a session of the Joint Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Information could see what Mr. Piculjan's views were. Here is what he now confirmed, and a colleague from HDZ said that there was no need to change the law, that public body leaders, leaders of local self-government units should not be punished, he said that the government was absolutely transparent in the process around Agrokora, and such a profile of a person is absolutely inadequate, not human, but a profile for such a position. This is a position, as Professor Podolnjak said, that requires conflict with the rulings, so that natural and legal persons come up with information. But here we have a man who means he was in HDZ, you know by the time they first lost the election by 2000, so the man is on the question to us, I don't know if any of the colleagues asked if you were a member of a party, he said he wasn't and then to insist, so if you were, he didn't want to answer at all. Asked whether you were a member of a party, he confirms that he was a member of the HDZ, and when you left HDZ, he made a lie, that he came out 10 years ago. I found an effort to make an article in the morning list, it's 4 months means 2000, that's something after HDZ lost the election, where it says that Zoran Piculjan was already before this date, so immediately after losing the election he left HDZ. It's a profile of a man who should be on this important function. So, you all I think of HDZ, but the worse I think of HDZ than people, when it loses HDZ power, they leave HDZ to stay in position. He was then an ambassador to the Czech Republic, so people, when their option loses power, leave that option to profit in another option, I think you're clear on what profile it is. What's most problematic in this whole story, I've already mentioned, means that Mr. Pichuljan was in '98. Mr. Bio. Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Then Minister Mate Granic, adviser to Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Josko Paro is one of the key people. And this team from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has now completely occupied both the government and all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. She has nothing to do with any party, she's above the party or I'd say behind the parties. What's also problematic, on the anti-corruption council, where we had the testimony of professional diplomat Damir Sabelak, someone asked Mr. Pari a question, is it true, that he had a high school in 1997, and that he was placed in the position of chief, for which he should have had a college degree. You know who he was then. The secretary and who hired Joschko Paru, this man, Zoran Pichuljan, I'm asking the question on what basis it is. Secretary Pichuljan '96. Betrayed high school graduate Pari to put himself in the position of chief? That's the team we're dealing with here. I'm going to share with you all HDZ, this article, the man you're going to vote for and who left your party the moment you lost the SDP election. The same man I already mentioned in my debate, Mate Granic, said in a statement to Nacional that thanks to Zoran Piculjana's grades, Zoran Milanovic progressed in the service, that he had given him very good grades. And that's why it's interesting that the SDP is not in this important debate at all today. I have not heard that none of my colleagues, here, a colleague of Glavasevic who left the SDP he answered for the debate, but I do not see anyone from the SDP discussing this important topic, and Zoran Piculjan was the secretary of state at the Ministry of Administration during Mr. Bauk, who spoke very highly of Mr. Piculjan on this committee. So we've got a big coalition on the part here. So one big coalition where a man is supported, who certainly will not oppose this Plenkovic government, which seeks to occupy all institutions in the Republic of Croatia, who is trying to Pacific and who is trying to kill them. So that's what's unacceptable, and I call on all my colleagues, and I call on my colleague Irene, who said that she is unacceptable, that fellow Piculjan says that there is no need to change the law, and she has just considered as well as all of us that the law needs to work out that sanctions are also necessary for those who do not allow information and do not give information to the citizens and the interested public. That performance, Mr. Pichulan, if someone had been there, this man would never have come to this function. He may be as good as a diplomat, as someone who won't come into conflict with anyone, but for this position, where the Commissioner for Information should fight for citizens to get information, to pressure both the government and politicians and politicians and the public authorities and units of local self-government and mayors and mayors who don't want to give information, because as Professor General said. Downhill, every power is prone to it. So they're setting up and intending to set up a man like that. This is absolutely unacceptable, but there is only one more proof, the fact that Croatia is currently managing, personnel from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and if they were to end up pulling something, I would say interest groups, which have nothing to do with any political party, which are tailored to the wolf from the former regime. And if someone were to ask me now, was Zoran Piculjan, a member of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, and although I don't have any information regarding this trip, surely, that man was 100% a member of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. It is ideal for both HDZ and SDP because this is what I would say one of the best recommendations to be elected to any function in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear what this is about, it is clear that it is pushing, but what is very saddening to me, that the most shaved opposition political option here in the Republic of Croatia does not rise up against this attempt to choke institutions, which are tasked with pressing the ruling. I call on my SDP colleagues to strongly support this attempt, to get rid of the hugs of those who are trying to do this, no matter what he was State Secretary during the SDP, it might not matter what's good with some members of your party, with former management minister Arsen Bauk, I think you have to react here. If one man who seeks to be an information commissioner says that the government in the Agrokor process has done everything transparently, that leaders of public bodies should not be punished, that the law should not be changed, it is clear what a man's profile is doing. I invite all of you to stand firm. It is not time for some fellow Glavasevic, a principle debate, on what needs to be done. This is about the personnel solution, and we all know well that human policy is the most important policy. So in that sense we must resist here, I will conclude this debate, if there is any replica I will gladly answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105969	We have 7 replicas on your exhibit, so it's not exactly one, and the first is colleague Maria Jelkovac here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105970	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grmoja, it is clear to me that your position and the constant attack of HDZ and Government, especially the diameter of Andrej Plenkovic, is first because you cannot forgive the diameter of the basket you received from the government, so now all you can do is attack it in this way, but I do not think it is correct to disqualify one candidate whose résumé tells everything clearly about him, and I will only indicate that he is among all other duties he has acted, and a member of the Scientific Council for Peace and Human Rights of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and a member of the Scientific Council for State Administration, Justice and Rule of the Law of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, President of the Foundation of the Administration, Foundation of the Doctor of Science Jadranko Crnic. So, what am I saying? It's about a man who meets all the formal conditions for this duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105971	Thank you. Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105972	My colleague, you can sell that basket story anywhere, but you can't sell it to us. We know why our ministers voted in the government and we knew the consequences of this following for MOST, and what we are telling you, you have not given us any basket, and you will not give us any more power, and be sure of that. So you're not going to power anymore, we tried to change Croatia, but with you Croatia is not going to change, and someone has said well while those two wings of the same party, means absolutely no loss and abandonment means space to some young new parties and new political options this Croatia will not go forward, and you know it well, and that's why Andrej Plenkovic is responding and saying that it will balance, that anything will only work with MOSTO, because with us you can't do what you do now. This wouldn't happen at the time of the Most, but at the time of these here who only raise your hands, it can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105973	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Thank you, thank you. My colleague, Mr. Glavasevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know who this saying you quoted in the end is? It's attributed to Stalin. So, if this is a role model that you consider desirable, I think it's quite problematic, there are a lot of better examples that I would recommend to you, and we can talk about them later and talk about, some of them, but much more important than all of them, so, people, that is, people, that are just an exponent of some political will, some political and life values, these are things that we need to talk about, that's the measure, I can understand that we have a question of choice here, but it's actually secondary, you're going to vote at the end of the day, either for Mrs. Bevandić or for Mr. Piculjan, or not for him, completely justified if you ask me, but the measure we need to talk about here and it's much, much better than quoting the late dictators.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105975	Replication response, here's a colleague of Grmo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105976	Mr. Glavasevic, you are quite aware that if someone is a dictator, it doesn't mean that something smart hasn't been said, so in that sense, uh, if I call for a statement, it doesn't mean I'm calling for a legacy, and we all know that in politics, human politics is the most important thing, anyway, I've, uh, witnessed myself on my skin, so in that sense, uh, I've gained some experience, and, well, second time, I'm going to be smarter, as he says, uh, she's singing. And as far as the metrics are concerned, we should talk about the metrics, but we should talk about the candidates, because they are the key, and they will only wear that body, as Mrs. Musa carried it through this past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105977	Next replica of my colleague Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105978	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, in my opinion, you have rightly put emphasis on the question of the person, the independence and character of the person, who will promote this important institution. And to take just a few parallels, here's a colleague of Musa, whom we in turn praised in her service to the Commissioner, she was independent, she was a scientist, she was proactive, and that's all we expect from every next person. But the fact is, for example, a colleague of Musa's, in each of his reports, asked for criminal sanctions and leaders, but also for legal persons that deny the public's right to information, and we got information in the interview of candidates who had just the opposite advocated that there was no criminal punishment, that's one message to the public, and we think that what that colleague Musa was up for was actually much more quality, and that's exactly what's important when we talk about the institution of the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105979	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105980	Of course, of course, colleague Podolnjak, that is the most important question, this, if it were not an important question then HDZ would have left to be the elected lady who, as far as this is concerned, has a much bigger experience, but for days it is written in the media that it will be precisely Mr. Puculjan, meaning, who told the Committee on Information and the Committee on the Constitution that he simply does not see the problem in the Law, that he does not think that he should punish the leaders of public bodies, politicians, state institutions and that everything around Agrokor was absolutely transparent. It is a career diplomat who entered the Croatian Democratic Community to get into a position, when they lost the election, the same day he left HDZ, was the secretary of state at the Ministry of Administration during the SDP, for Minister Arsen Bauk, and now such a man should press the ruling in the fight and the desire of citizens to come up with some information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105981	Thank you. Next replica, colleague of Irena Petrievcan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105982	Thank you very much. My colleague Grmo, there's no collective guilt, no collective responsibility. He only has individual guilt, and individual responsibility. And you know well that this person is chosen by the will of the ruling majority. If the candidate xy after he has been elected, will work dishonestly or somehow different from what he should, it is exclusively his responsibility, whether the party is responsible... is the political platform for how I work here, or is that my personal responsibility? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So politics is a platform that appoints people, which appoints persons, we know what kind of procedure is here and everything is legitimate, but each person is still responsible for how he behaves, and there is no collective responsibility, but the responsibility of that person is individual, and we will see it already on the first report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105983	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105984	Well, fellow Members, I absolutely agree with you, there is no collective responsibility, there is individual responsibility and that is why it is your responsibility that when the vote comes, since Mr. Piculjan disagreed with your views, that you vote means against this man and against his election and that you vote for a candidate who was far more quality than the gentleman in front of the board. I will now, like all HDZ members here in the assembly, share an article from the newspapers where you can see when Mr. Pichuljan came out of HDZ. So right after losing when HDZ first lost the election, he was an ambassador to the Czech Republic, left HDZ and returned the membership card and told the board he did it 10 years ago. Here, let me just share, I have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105985	We have further, colleague Glavak, here's your next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105986	Dear Grmoy, watch the paper, you know we have to guard the woods, so I think we must be responsible and in that sense, Comrade Grmoy, I hope you can hear me, so my question to you, since you've been doing this self-proclaimed moral vertical and ever since someone who appears in a competition called by the Croatian Parliament and has all the conditions, should ask MOST if they should report to any contests? So then I ask you a question, are your former members, Orepic, and so on. or, for example, a colleague of Glavasevic, who has his own profession, who has his qualifications, shall report to some competition for which he meets the conditions? If you want to answer, then first you should ask MOST, so I ask you nicely not to give us any more documents, to not yell at us, to look at what it says in the terms of the competition, and when you mention someone's party membership or not, it says nicely that it must add evidence that it is not a member of the political party that has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105987	Thank you. The next replica is my colleague, Boric. ... Bey, you'll all be with your colleagues, Boric, here you are. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Come on, you'll answer Mr. Boric, slowly. .../Grmoya Intruder:... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] A great coalition to practice here. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105988	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Grumoja, what was it at the time of the MOST to remind you. We all remember the statement certified by the public notary that you would not be able to co-ordinate with the SDP or the HDZ, the second day you signed Milanovic, after which you ended up with HDZ, and the second time with HDZ, and you didn't care when you joined the ministries that are members of the parties, you left a lot of SDP staff, you didn't mind. These divisions of yours and diphtherias, ad hominim to individuals, are below every level of this House, we're talking about people with their professions and knowledge, not who they belong to. What you're doing is beneath every level of normal behavior of one agent, and you may be ashamed to share people, professions and those who can be in this country. And secondly, what you're saying and saying, we've also seen recently how it ends, even the media pays the fines for these truths and investigations that you're conducting, and now you're denying them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105989	Thank you, here's my colleague, Grmoy, for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105990	Thank you. First, my colleague Glavak means because you didn't let me answer, I didn't disqualify anyone. On the basis of the statements of the gentleman on the committee, I said that based on what he said, he was not appropriate to be the Commissioner for Information. As for counterparts, Boric's election and statement, Croatia had for the first time a non-partisan prime minister that you replaced and destroyed the government thanks to the MOST. For the first time. For the first time, he was not a candidate for either HDZ or SDP at the head of the state, and for the first time, one political option left the post and signed for disbanding, so are dear colleagues, for disbanding the parliament. For the first time, early elections were held and there was nothing we were not offered to build a government, a new government with HDZ. And that's true and it's facts and against facts you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105991	Thank you. We've got... Please, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, please, Mr. Vice President, protect us from the representatives who usurp this assembly, who think they are above the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and to present their party visions, which was when they were and that they were here to be some kind of indication that we should behave. So, with this kind of behavior, my colleague Grumoja makes it impossible for me to respond to him in a replica, answers my statements, and in fact, you should respond to my colleague, Boric, therefore, please protect us because he is constantly harassing us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105993	Thank you, good, thank you. Here you go. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105994	Thank you very much, Vice President. According to her colleague, the article and 235 were injured. The Rules of Procedure also because the answer can only be to the replica which it was and a colleague has replicated to a colleague instead of a colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105995	Yeah, you're partly right, but yes, 235. We're moving on. Alexic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105996	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, you're talking about staffing but I don't see that there's anything special now than what's all the time in the Republic of Croatia but also in the former Socialist Republic, it's always important whose person, on whose side is, so everyone meets the criteria, the ones that are technically drawn, you have to have some college, that they have to have some internship and there's 10 candidates, but of those 10 candidates, they'll never be chosen the best, but they'll always be the one who fits the ruling, the one who's in power. And I don't see that ever changing. I'm not optimistic about this, even what I thought was a little utopian that could happen here in the Croatian Parliament so that we could all do something together, and it's not possible, but it all comes down to bickering, it all comes down to fighting between us and them and the citizens looking at it all together, they're sick of us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105997	Thank you, before answering just a second, please welcome the students and pupils of Budachevo Topolovac Gosce who are with us right now. Well, hello and welcome. ... As well as their teachers and teachers. [[Applause.]] Be my guest, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105998	My colleague, Alexic, I absolutely agree with you except in this last part. I think that the Croatian Parliament is a space for debate, a space for discussion, and just those who control the media want to send a message that every heated debate here is absolutely inappropriate. I don't agree with that. Look at the other parliaments in the world, which we should, means sitting here and not commenting on, those who do not come and debate, they destroy the entire picture of the Croatian Parliament, and those who debate who warn you are the same problem because they are as sharp, I do not know how to raise tensions etc. I have to warn you of these things. Not because this man is a member of this party or that party, but because that man told us in front of the board that there was no need to change the law, that not to punish leaders of public bodies who do not allow information and that everything around Agrokor was transparent. That's how that man disqualified himself. I don't care which party he is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u105999	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Grumoja and last replica of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106000	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so my colleague Grumoja would agree with you only in one way and you are right in the beginning that this is actually the point of a proposal from the candidate for the selection of Commissioners for Information. And that's true, and you've crashed on one of the candidates without mentioning another candidate, Mrs. Bevandic, so on Mr. Piculjan, which is your right again. So you have the right to your position and you are against that candidate and I respect that. What I can't understand, and that's that some of the things the structures you're bringing out here aren't founded, they don't have their foundation and it's not good, and I'm surprised by you, I don't expect at least such a debate that you're actually talking about where someone, when and at what time should work. Because it reminds me of a very old time, I know you won't be happy about it, and these are the ideological committees you know, they had to ask what they could say, how in which way and what they should say and what they shouldn't say, because the possibility of running had all the citizens of the Republic who are fulfilling the conditions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106001	Thank you, reply to the replica, here's a colleague of Grmoy's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106002	However, my colleague Babić, absolutely incorrectly, I am in favour of those models that were in the former regime, if someone is running for the head of the government, institutions, public authorities to provide information, then the one in front of the board must not behave in a courtship and not be satisfied with any committee there, some prime minister, some politician there but should defend the public interest and that is what I want to explain to you, this is the democratisation we need to fight for, it is the empowerment of institutions that we need so much. And when I speak out loudly, I don't get mad at you, I just speak out of my heart, I'm a temperamental man, I want things to change in Croatia. Don't be afraid, pal. I'm very fond of you. I'm just raising my voice. In the right direction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106003	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106004	Thank you, Mr. President, in those familiar words... Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's topic is nominally human character as I said before, but let's be quite honest, real dilemmas or real choices here actually do not exist. [[The speaker speaks in a foreign language, not understood.]] First of all, both candidates are candidates of continuity, Mr. Piculjan worked to create this institution, whose head is currently running, and his opponent, Mrs. Bevandic, is employed in the same institution. In that sense, in principle, how much of a positive fact I consider both candidates to be undoubtedly professional, I find it so bad that this choice is actually only in the name. We must ask the question why this is so, why the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament had to propose to Mr. Piculjan and Mrs. Bevandić, because they consider them, not because they consider them the most qualified candidates, but because they had no choice, 2 candidates are the legal minimum that must be proposed to the tide, let's be honest I will now say it here, we all know that, that one of these two candidates has happened solely in order for the competition not to fail again. Which tells us colleagues and colleagues that other than these two people, none in the Republic of Croatia wanted the job of Anamari Musa. Let me offer one possible answer, it is not because there are no qualified from special citizens and citizens who meet the conditions, it is because they have been seen by such able and qualified over the past 5 years as the Commissioner fought against the windmills by trying to educate her partners and the Croatian public on the transparency and importance of public information about public authorities and on the other hand by trying rarely without success or with very little success to force those bodies of public authorities who did not do so to respect the constitutional right of citizens and citizens of the Republic to have information about decision-making and the functioning of those whose authority is entrusted. This right was trampled by many from the government to the president, the citizens saw that the commissioners had denied all the conditions for adequate work, from the fact that at first her office had too many people, to the fact that she had no further funds. Tell me colleagues and colleagues as political animals as in fact in the conveyed sense that it would not be misunderstood all of us here are, would you run for such a duty under such conditions so I believe that this situation is actually a kind of defeat of democracy and an indicator of the dysfunctional nature of an important mechanism to ensure the health of every democratic society. I think that, as I mentioned in earlier discussions, it is important that as much as this is a nominal human question and should, I agree with my colleague Grumo, we should talk about the differences between these two candidates, but actually the essence and background of this election is something that we need to talk about, so I welcome what my colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic was saying and this focus on the essence. However, there are differences between these two candidates. I think that it can be talked about with much less passion than my colleague Grumo did, and I also think that it would be better for us to get out of this situation the way it is now, that we who should ultimately make decisions for the future, some kind of lesson, and that lesson is we have problems with these, so only two people, and one of which, in order that the competition doesn't fail, report for this duty that matters. If we want Croatian society to be a healthy one democracy and not what, I regret that I have to say because there is too little talk here, a case that is rarely mentioned in various reports as a non-transparent society, as a society full of corruption, uncertainty, we need to make sure that such democratic mechanisms, the assurances of democracy to function better in the future, we need to give them infrastructure for it. I think it's really terrible that only two people reported for the duty of Anamaria Musa, who, and I think it should be said here, indeed in her term of office lionishly fought to fulfill her duty as she understood it and as this duty was imagined. Among these two candidates, I think it would be much better to choose Mr Bevandic, in fact for three reasons which he so effectively mentioned by his colleague Grmoi at the end. I think anyone who thinks that Agrokor was all right in acting first of all by the Government and then the public authorities need either glasses or I don't need to know, some course about what transparency is and how in a democratic society it works, what is the role or that simply has some motive to think about it that way. It is clear to me that colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary majority think that it is actually an ideal candidate but that is simply not so and unfortunately, as much as I believe that my colleague, Piculjan, has undoubtedly been disqualified in my eyes. Also, I think he should have said in some way that, to point out the shortcomings in the legal framework, it would have shown that he's a candidate who's thinking, who's looking at some kind of a broader picture and I think that this is why he's just not good, he's not going to get my trust, he's not going to get my vote when the time comes. I'm saying, I'm pretty sorry that we're in this situation, and on some other occasion, there's going to be an opportunity for us to point even clearer perhaps to the causes of it or with more passion than Mr. Bolt did, but here we are right now. Today for Croatian citizens and citizens who most often do not actually see the results of the work of the person we choose on this duty, this may not be particularly important, but we all here know how important it is because one day if we find ourselves in a situation where lack of transparency bites our butts because we have allowed him to come into epidemic proportions, we will only have ourselves to blame for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106005	Thank you. We have five replicas on your display, first colleague is Tomislav Žagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106006	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Glavasevic, therefore, it is truly amazing and, as you say, two candidates, one of them reported formally to satisfy the form. It's devastating and once, we've had a long time ago, one ministry called the Department of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. I think that every ministry should add this "and link" because the intertwination of interest in the Republic of Croatia is so great, we will have the following law, the Insurance Act where the same thing will be said. There are so many strong interests behind all these interests there is money, and that is why I think this question of yours, which is why people don't appear to be such functions where they need to be independent, precisely this intertwined interest and money makes it impossible for them because people are not paid enough, nor have all the teamwork of that office, and neither do they have the resources needed to oppose such powerful interest groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106007	Thank you. Answer me, buddy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106008	Thank you for your comment, Comrade Sagar. I think it's terribly discouraging when you have one public duty that is nominal, which in principle should be the role of a fighter for the constitutional right of citizens and this fighter is going into battle without tools to do so, if he can't punish the leaders of the public authority and if he can't do anything to actually do his duty that is expected to be fulfilled, I mean what are we talking about? It's very demoting what someone individual can get out of it, let's say what motivation they can apply for, it would be pure masochism, so here's why it's not just money, I think it's simple and the fact that it's without the right tools, it's actually just a little Kafkian wheel bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106009	Thank you. Next replica, colleague of the Sun's Head, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Glavasevic, in this assembly when the SDP changed the law, Commissioner, has now already received support from the HDZ Club because the SDP government at the time has disabled her financial precondition for the office's functioning. From 2014 from millions and some thousand kn, to 2018 3 million 600. The financial prerequisite for the functioning of the office also means partial independence. So, in order for you to have people, who will be in office, to implement the law, to help citizens, then you have to give them financial independence. And by the end, what you're saying, I agree with you, only two candidates have come forward, but whoever came forward has been thrown out here almost in public. Let's think a little bit about what we're talking about people no matter what position they take. Qualified people, do they deserve it if they have all the legal requirements to report to a competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106011	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106012	Thank you. So if I had no problem with what you're saying, whoever was responsible for any mistakes in the past, I should say, if it was SDP and it was, it was SDP. I mean from the perspective of a member of the party who, em has the indictment, is guilty of 99.9% of evil in the Republic of Croatia, which happened from independence to today, you don't have a moral position that with so much... You're talking about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But... to be allowed, if the Prime Minister Plenkovic is also allowed to use foreign languages, you say that the SDP is responsible for the situation that was in 2013 and at that moment Mr. Piculjan was one of the people who was wondering about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're going to support one of the people who was responsible for something you're warning you about, what's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106013	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, reluctantly using an article. 238. However, my colleague Glavasevic, I am asking you to get a little bit together, are you aware of what you have said? Are you trying to tell me that I am to blame for 99% of the evil in the Republic of Croatia? I beg you nicely, I am a member of the HDZ, what are you imputing to me and with what right? My colleague Glavasevic, please think about what you said, I expect at least an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106015	Thank you, please, another violation of the Rules of Procedure, but don't abuse, please answer, he didn't hurt... Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106016	We're not going to abuse Mr. Vice President. He's hurt, of course. In 238, if my colleague Glavak had listened very carefully to what I was saying, she would have heard very clearly, because I believe that, with my many faults, spoken speech and some clarity were not among them, I think it was very clear, that I did not have any individual responsibility imputed by my colleagues Glavak, but in fact, was not on the party, but therefore there are some convictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106017	Okay, here we go, next up, replica is colleague Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106018	I thank my colleague Glavasevic, you said, no one answered, because it is poorly funded, so there will be no resources, so it is ungrateful, but I don't think that's the main reason, yet the main reason, is that people are slowly realizing that it's utopian to report to some jobs, which have already been established in advance, determined, where it is necessary, that you have the will of a political wants to do this kind of work. By the way... State and public companies and there you have to have a certain similarity, to behave out of a responsible function, so that people appear, occasionally, but simply have no chance unless it is predetermined, agreed, clientelism, corruption, nepotism, these are some concepts that have already been poured out into the Republic of Croatia, but we are simply a society intertwined with these societies, a network of interests, from financial to political, so I don't see much light at the end of the tunnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106019	Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Alexic, and thank you for your rep. In fact, my colleague, Sagar, has been more focused on the financial aspect, and I fully agree with you that it is climate-friendly. It is primarily the climate of a moral relativity, in the sense that it is not clear, there is no, there is no clear criterion for what is acceptable and for what is not acceptable, and that is so for all of these reasons that you have stated. So I agree with you in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106021	The next replica of Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bojan, unfortunately, does not surprise me that despite the fact that we probably have in Croatia, very good candidates, who would behave very well as the Commissioner for Information, very few people report to this competition. And when people see how much this government is actually hitting on independent institutions that need to be independent, they only answer on their own in the assembly, when they see what fate happened to the lady. The attorney for the children, when they see what fate happened to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, when they see what is done here in Parliament every year to Mrs. Lori Vidovic, then it is no wonder that people do not want to put their professional competences and their reputation in places that can contribute to the Republic of Croatia, but where a political option, if they do not do what they want to do, chicanate and actually play with them. Unfortunately, independent institutions in the Republic of Croatia, such as lawyers, the Commissioner for Information, the chairman of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest have been seriously threatened since the government led.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106023	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106024	Thank you. That fellow Glasovac, you are absolutely right, I mean, the violation of independent institutions and democratic fuses is one of the features, primarily HDZ authorities, the HDZ governments of these since 2015. I mean, next, it is simply something that Croatia will have to deal with in the future one day when HDZ leaves power and that will happen, because the news of Croatian citizens, I think it will come out. The first job, which whenever it is in power, at that moment will be the re-establishment of a healthy system of democratic fuses, which they have trampled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106025	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say in the beginning, I almost fully agree with the replica of my colleague Glavak. So we in this House discuss more passionately when we talk about names, and when certain people with names are deleted by different names, it doesn't matter which names they delete the floor in this assembly, these names are usually not when they happen. The real problem, unfortunately, is not the one to come to that place, but the problem is why a colleague of Musa who has done her job with extraordinaryness, no longer wants to do the job. The problem is why both she and she before and she before the government did not allow funds or resources to the Commissioner at that time and the next Commissioner or Commissioner, can adequately do the job, it would be a real debate in this assembly, why this office has no funds and financial and all the rest so that you could do your job right and I think that's why no one answered, that's probably why counterpart Musa left the job and we, as usual, completely miss... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106027	Thank you, answer. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106028	Yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, one of my thesises was that we had to focus on the scale of things and I tried to do it, and as much as my colleague Glavak felt hit at one point, I think you're right, I can agree with what you said. On the other hand, of course candidates and candidates for public duties must be exposed to a certain amount of public interest and public focus so that there is no help and no one who has anything to hide should actually not, I mean, report to such things but yes, you're absolutely right. We have, we have seen, on several occasions, a situation where people who have very well behaved in the duties they have been elected to or who are entrusted to, simply raise their hands and do not want to continue to act on that duty. It is a feature of unhealthy democracy among other things, there is no continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106029	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Miro Bulj, here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106030	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, it doesn't matter what color the cat is. It's important that mice are hunted. However, in this swamp in Croatia, in the case of the Commissioner, it is very important in the case of a very important service, i.e. A very important democratic tool, it is the right to inform, of course, that it is not good to place a mouse in this swamp of rats because a mouse will never catch a rat and let alone a cat in this column of closed information, non-information, ignorance. For what? That's why when a man says it doesn't matter, it's okay in Agrokor, and while the former commissioner says that all the information needs to be brought out around Agrokor mainly from HBOR's credits and that the public is interested and that we need to give information about who these mice are and today the rats or cats who favored this system, this giant Agrokor, that they need to go public. Of course they don't need this man, this lady. Moosa, who says all the loans should come out, in which the amounts came out but it's like a business secret, right, and that's what the Croatian economic system was before the collapse, which was favored by the political elites, of course that man was chosen and that man was placed exclusively out of all colors, and that's evident and man will do the task that the information about the Agrokor case doesn't come out. So I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic a few days ago how these rats strengthened, in this system and why they needed a mouse, so I asked the Prime Minister Plenkovic why they were breaking the laws of teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia and why they did not behave according to the law, the regulations in force, he said there was no answer, that someone else would respond and I alone and a number of citizens, we only ask that teleoperators behave as in countries where they came from. I, as a parliamentary representative, cannot get information and, of course, they will never set up a man again, no matter what color he is. For me personally, it doesn't matter what color it is, but they don't need the one who's going to hunt, those who let telecommunications in the Republic go to the side of the hand, we need to know that the privatisation started HDZ at the head with Mudrinic, the SDP ended, the INA started SDP with white eyes, ended up with, Sanader with and simply we know how it works. I prefer here and a more painful way not to admit that it is very important, the institution Commissioner for Information is chosen in this way. And it should be made clear that they need a reliable person, a person who will guard the prime minister, the government and all those who helped Agrokor grow that level to endanger the system of the Republic, the economics to which it has happened, which should not have been mentioned for a year and a half at all, who should have mentioned it, no one, and not just him, I have mentioned now, now all the shoemen, of course. And it's so much power that simply as ordinary citizens from the lowest levels cannot access information, simply public service should inform our citizens, but when we choose a man who says that around Agrokor everything was clear, crystal clear, then we know that we don't choose the person who does the job. So I'm not surprised what he was, while HDZ was in power in HDZ, while SDP was in power, was with counterpart Bauka's secretary, so don't drive me crazy, but we have to stand up and say, colleague Glavak is always saying it's anti-democratic. Because of this call for democracy, Croatia is, 2/3 of Croatia is empty because we do not protect sovereignty. We don't protect sovereignty in telecommunications because we didn't have any information. Here, for example. and the Council of Europe says that we are building, we have EU funds, we are very poor construction of DTK optical cables and that the Republic of Croatia has its own DTK network. No, we won't do that, no matter what the funds are provided and which are going to fail, it's important that teletele operators become the owners of our network and now they're setting up base stations wherever they come to mind, whether in Split, in the Pigs, whether or not I was now in the Vrbans, without respecting the legal regulations and local self-governments and spatial plans, as well as the legal regulations of the Ministry of Civil Engineering. That's what we have to keep quiet about. You won't read much in the media to talk about this. No matter what the world health organization says is possible cause of tumors, cancers, cancers, are radiation from the base cells, which allows us to limit much more than 890 times as in Vienna, but these are things that no one cares about. Here, today we also have a Committee on Transport, so I believe you will support the Law that telefiction operators of the Construction Act, that telepliers set up base stations, that mine have a building permit, that they have to meet the conditions, the same, no less, no more, than in their own country. Because we have a simple monopoly here. If the Republic of Croatia had information, if citizens had information then under pressure, of course, a network of optics would be built to the public that would be the owners of the Republic of Croatia, and not that part of sovereignty, and not that someone else is doing it to us. So we have no information, I can't get here when I ask Prime Minister Plenkovic. Of course we also remember the adoption of the Law on Electric Communications where we asked for the right of service or the right way to be paid by telephony operators as they pay in their own countries. However, this was past counseling, in the evening he met, before the evening, before the Law was passed, the prime minister met with HT President and it was deleted from the e-consultation, and that is familiar to you all and you know about it, we have given amendments, nothing more, nothing less, but as they behave in their countries. And that's why telephony operators boast that the highest profit is in the Republic of Croatia. No less, no more, than twice the EU average. Even in Serbia, there's twice the profit he's earning. How can he have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia? That's why he doesn't need a building permit, he doesn't need to be designed, he doesn't need to invest in infrastructure, he simply uses all the holes and regulations, and of course there are pests, little mice inside the Ministry and lobbyes that have favored these stakeholders for years. A number of information, right here, which was the Franak Association, the Association, numerous Civil Society Associations have warned, but they can't, can't fight to get accurate information. Simply, here, the Association, the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions is so struggling that we have the same conditions as in the Republic of Croatia, but we cannot get the information. And of course, I once again invite all institutions to do the job, as prescribed. But we can't expect it because we're simply dealing with something that's long known and what the people know. I'll repeat what I said at the beginning. It doesn't matter what color the cat is, it's an old saying, it's important that the mouse cat hunts. But in this swamp of Croatia there are too many, not mice, rats, and they are interested in having the mouse at the head of the Committee and the essential institutions, because the cat would catch them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106031	Exposition of colleagues. We have nine replicas. So, the first replica is colleague Marko Sladolev, and then Darko Paric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you remember before the World Cup when you, my colleague Grumoja, asked, therefore, for the names of parliamentary MPs who traveled to the HNS's game account to be paid for hotels and you remember that the Commissioner for Information also referred the issue to the HNS and did not receive an answer. Me and my colleague, Sagar, also referred that as a written question, we never got an answer. It's about funds that are pretty big since our parents, kids at football clubs, are training in inadequate conditions, and here's what I'm calling you to comment on, and that as representatives, we're going to be asking these questions as our next Commissioner for Information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106033	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106034	Thank you very much, dear colleague of Sladolev's. Both you and your colleague, Sagar, with your question that you asked and Commissioner Musa, you will never get that answer. Never. And that's why my colleague Musa... Commissioner Musa and what we were looking for, she just doesn't have any more support, she can't ask. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] She must be the Commissioner for Information, and you, as a parliamentary representative, must not ask that question. Because they don't need someone to solve problems, to express what the institution and the role is, the legal role, the right to information, and it's a system that's simply full, I repeat, mouse or muscle. But they cut into rats. And they should have a system on their foreheads because if it were some kind of cat no matter the color, what this says was in one party, then those mice would retreat. But they need a mouse not to mention rats, is it simple? And it's visible, and we have to fight it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106035	Thanks, buddy Bull. Next replica of counterpart Darko Paric. After him... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Bulj... The reason I came forward in principle is the amount of hypocrites from you and your colleagues Grumia who have no problem here free baratate in this House and you forget, remember, you have syncope without any problems. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have any problems, why are you against fellow Piculyans because of everything he said or didn't say on the board. But this extraction of the intestines in this way, it's really not right, according to anyone, and neither to him, it meets all the conditions that it can be, and should be or should not be chosen, because of what he said or didn't say. And yet the most hypocritical is that, connecting him to what he said or didn't say about the group borg and Agrokora, so let me remind you, your party president at the time, was the de facto initial founder of the whole story about Agrokor and the group borg. And the only reason the Bridge wasn't deeply involved in that story is because Andrej Plenkovic, long before the passion of passion came out of that government. And it's fascinating to me that your ease of existence, of distorting and experiencing facts, as it suits you at a given time, is really fascinating.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106037	Thank you, fellow Paric, thank you, for your reply to the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106038	Mr. Paric, you were the assistant minister when Todorovic bought Mercator at the time. And your government and you praised that move, which he made, of course, because you favored him, and Jakovina and everyone, no one should have mentioned Todorovic, we mentioned him first. I was the first to file a criminal charges against Vujčić, while your president was with him and... I was playing a CD there, and I filed a criminal charges against Vujčić, first, first, I filed a criminal report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] None of you should have looked at Todorovic, mentioned HT, no one should have. No matter how much you used our resources, you had your minister, our resources were being used, billions of people drained annually, yes, that you and your colleague Paric are one of the ones who supported Agrokor, and that's why you don't need him, so you need a person like this at the head of the commission, who says you need credits to come out... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106039	Thank you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Paric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106040	Excuse me, sir. He's hurt. In 238, in a way, that what I said earlier, you can't just accuse people, without any facts, evidence or anything, I did help Agrokor, by shopping in the stores of Agrokor and that's the only way you did, because there are Croatian products and that's that. I believe you've been shopping in Konzum, too, I think you're putting down a debate in this assembly so in this assembly, that sometimes I'm ashamed to sit here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106041	Thank you. The article wasn't hurt, to hear your violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106042	You're the president who hurt her by subjugated the Rules of Procedure, because all the articles, like the president, the colleagues, because the colleague didn't say, is which article I hurt, but he didn't say what I hurt, which I told the truth, which I didn't tell the truth, so yes, the teleopers started... HDZ, SDP, finished, the INA started HDZ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, it was you, and in 2014, that you and your government toasted Todorovic when he bought Mercator and no one should have mentioned him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106043	Well, I'm drawing a line now, so I won't tolerate it anymore, so-called. Injuries to the rules of procedure for replicas. So now it's a line, so I'm not giving anyone a warning. We're moving on, colleague Arsen Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106044	Dear colleague Bulj, the fact that someone was in the Ministry while I was a minister, it was just a plus for him, your party admitted it. So, Mrs. McNally, it's Mrs. You left the Botical Assistant in that place, you left Milosevic behind, Mrs. Neelix. ... You left after you even promoted her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's wrong with Mr. Puchula? So you've admitted the correct staff policy of me as minister, while I was at the Ministry, I thank you for that. Mr. Piculjan is one of the authors of the Law right to access information and I can't say anything bad about him, so he was deputy minister, because he would now say I won't vote for him. Maybe I'll vote for him, maybe I'll vote for another candidate, no problem at all, but both candidates are professionals and they won't protect the diameter, they'll protect the court, because none of their decisions are executive, they still have judicial control. And if he did, he's the only minus that he may have been in HDZ 20 years ago, but he was Stipe Mesic, and so have you, so what now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106045	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106046	I told my colleagues, if they listened well, it didn't matter what color the cat was, it mattered that the mouse was hunting. And from that context, you're taking it out that it's professionally important for a man to be in which party. But this one was exactly changing the party at times when he needed to. He was in HDZ until you came to power, and then he came to the SDP, and he adapted exactly that time. But I didn't talk so much about it, it's very important to me to make this statement, where he says that Agrokor was all clean, while a colleague, former Commissioner Musa, asked that all HBOR loans received by Agrokor and everyone else, for which he did not. It doesn't matter what color cats I said. He was absolutely not who was in the system that parties, let the man fight and do his job, but obviously at this point he doesn't need a cat, no matter what color he is, but a mouse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106047	Thank you. The next replica is counterpart Ivan Lovrinović, followed by Ante Pranic, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, if I'm going to step away from these shootings of the HDZ SDP Bridge, we all know what happened, unfortunately Most went twice with HDZ and you don't need to be surprised now to choose, who will be elected Commissioner for Information. But, fellow Bulj, here's the word, even the elected official, is that the government's Commissioner for Information or the Commissioner for Public Information? This is obviously about the government commissioner and you're all surprised by my people, so they're obviously choosing the government's commissioner for information. But what's essential, you touched it, there's a lot of things in HBOR that I don't say, landmines, there's the dirtiest, the politics are visible, and that's why they want to hide all that crime, corruption, clientilistic ties and one and the other parties that led this country, and that's why they want to control the countries of their commissioner for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106049	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106050	My colleague Lavinovich and you were with us and you know how I behave. I didn't vote for the budget either in 2017, we were in the majority. And you know that I didn't want to get ahead of myself when it was possible for the first time, it wasn't when they first came to the election. So we can talk about it, but we have to have courage, if we have to get into it and stick to our principles in the fight against them. But it's true what you say. And I'll just repeat always, they're not interested in the current authority of putting a man where information will have the right to everyone's insight into, say, Agrokor, the CNB, they, they don't need that kind of person, no matter what color he is. They need a person to protect them from this information that should be public. As a result, the Commissioner for Information plays a very important role in the democratic system. But obviously, here is no interest in having such an institution and such a person at the head because a colleague of Musa has just asked that, to publish everything about Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106051	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Ante Pranic, please. After him, my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, I absolutely agree with your exposure. And actually what's the point of this today? When we see one process in a public competition, two candidates appear, one appears probatively only to satisfy the form. For what? Simply because of the system that rules in Croatia. That this contest was reported by a guy named Einstein, if he didn't have a member card from the ruling majority, he couldn't pass. So, there's nothing questionable about you telling us today from the assembly in this line that he's your candidate, he has absolute support. Well, if he didn't have your support, he probably wouldn't have come to the competition, and that's what's happening in Croatia today. And then when he wonders why young people leave, that is, why we have this system of 2,000 people employed over the last two years. So whose membership card do they have support? Well, you know how to come to work in Croatia. It is well known how to come to such institutions, mainly institutions that should carry information in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106053	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106054	Well, you said it all, so I'd just point out. When selecting constitutional judges, it is very easy to agree HDZ, SDP, very simple, and make it very easy for Vladimir Seks to place his best friends in all institutions. So we also see how even the judiciary has ruled against a single media because of what a fellow Member of Parliament named Grmoy said, he said... is the media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the Constitutional Court of All, all Commissioners must be under control. And there it is very easy when it is necessary to agree on HDZ and SDP, no matter how we can confirm it. And that all leads, let's say Vladimir Shakespeare put the judiciary together fantastically, exactly on the best man line, on the party line. So complete control of the justice system is in the hands of several people, the judiciary we speak. And the judiciary is a cancer wound. And these institutions as an information commissioner are very important, but they obviously don't need anyone to hunt these little mice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106055	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106056	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, may I continue in the style of your fables. You know, it's a big problem that at this point a lot of foxes keep our chickens, it's the main problem, the more money, the less information goes out, it's your law and the underworld and over the ground and so it's in all your systems, don't be surprised about Agrokor, so when it comes to money there's very little information, it's going out. The Croatian Parliament currently has a very low reputation in Croatian society, as well as representatives. At this point, a lot of guys, let's say, I use your dictionary, a lot of guys have generous receipts, they use their privileges and the opposite of this law and this commissioner, and the information doesn't come to citizens. What they have, all the benefits of this society and how many companies they've ruined and what they're doing, and in the end, we're responsible for it. And in that sense, I don't even welcome your bickering over who's to blame because if you look back in history, then we're getting to the point of astounding that everyone was involved in it in some way and that's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106057	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106058	Well, colleague Sagar, I agree with you, I didn't go in who did it, I was just saying that it just has to be, when you have mice and you get a cat, I repeat again, it doesn't matter what color it is, it's important that it hunts. Because the fox won't guard the hens, that's what you said at the beginning. And a little mouse can't catch a rat. How? He just can't. If he's under control. Therefore, I have said correctly that it is important that on all public duties such as the Commissioner for Information and other persons who will work by law are prescribed their work and not by a person who will say that it does not matter who the HBOR is and when it is credited with, and we should not know that no matter what the public money is. But it's about billions. Therefore, in this place, people who have courage in this swamp need to make, respect the law and fight corruption and all that public about it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106059	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Sunny Glavak. After that, colleague Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Bulj, the people who have come forward, so two ultimately meet all the conditions and in this animal world, from your mice, cats, to base stations, you obviously have a broader picture, perhaps lost what MOST wanted to do, and I'll just remind you, so don't mention the cats much because when you have a lion, then a lion, for example, wants his godfather to become the deputy director of Croatian Waters. Therefore, please, colleague Bulj, someone has said, unfortunately the level of Croatian citizens' evaluation of the work of the Croatian Parliaments is low. Let us look at what the competition says, as the law says, which deals with the Commissioner for Information, above all by resolving complaints and other users who have been denied the right to access information. We're talking about the metrics. We got lost in the translation of all these animals that you wanted to characterize people to get to this and say and suggest again what your colleague Grmoy said, don't choose someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106061	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106062	Look, you're talking about one person and I'm going to describe to you this way that in Croatia there are more of these Particocratic thoughts that you've just said. You just have to accept, fellow Sunchana Glavak, I know you were a spokeswoman to Sanader, I know you were all, I know you had to arrange to get in the way of Sanader when it was Jadranka Kosor's election, so you had to do this to Kosor, this to Karamark, so you had to keep everyone in line. I know what your job is, I know you're on that side and you're educated, and that's your job, but the fact is that we currently have a lot of foxes in the henhouse in Croatia. And you know it, and you can't deny it one word of me. As far as the teleoperator is concerned, here at 1 o'clock there's a Committee on Construction and Spatial Planning where I'm making my decision legally that the teleoperators are just acting the way they behave in their own The countries, I believe your representatives will [[Intruder: Thank you.]] /incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106063	The next replica of counterpart Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106064	Thank you Vice President, Mr. Bulj, in some parts of your debate could agree on cats and mice, cats are full and of course.../incomprehensible/... that is, but there is one other thing, I agree that the information must be clear and accessible to the citizens completely, but I know that the opposition also wants to attack the government which I am of course my support, why, we must know however that this country has been moving forward in the last 2-3 years, that it still has a surplus, that there are still some things, and this calf, some of the things that they have done and I've been looking at it clearly through the economy and through today through some other laws, but I agree with these teleopers that we have, of course we have in Europe our representatives who were supposed to fight here, but as far as I've been reading and monitoring the prices and calls and everything. Of course there's order to be done everywhere in that I can agree that I still think that this is what we're doing right now. in the country of Croatia one row. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106065	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106066	I would like to agree with you that it does not matter who is in power, it is important at the head of institutions such as the attorney for information, all defenders of all institutions, it is important that people who will professionally do their job, and not put people who already speak in advance about things that simply do not make sense, cannot be someone who will protect the information as the Commissioner for Information and to protect the information that HABOR has given credits to. Why can't it be made public to whom HABOR gave credits, as much as Agrokor, as many other thirds, but he's already announced, so we here have to have a person who will do his job no matter what color he is, I'm talking about party belongings. So we have to protect the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106067	Thank you. And the last replica, a colleague of Vlaović Davor, is a colleague of Vlaovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106068	Thank you, Vice President, Mr Bulj, you wanted to paint yourself that the Commissioner for Information must do his job professionally, that he must have the means to do so and that citizens must receive answers to those questions that are raised by state and public bodies. Unfortunately, one of the questions that was left unaccounted for and I expect the new commissioner, regardless of who he would be, to know in the Croatian public who paid Eve Sanader's ticket to the World Cup in Russia, who he was up to the vip ticket and who he represented, are questions and the question is what kind of message we send to Dr. Ivo Sanader vip guest in Russia and therefore a good part of the youth is certainly disappointed in this system and in society. And we expect the Commissioner to answer or seek further answers to such questions and not allow such guffs that Mr Ivo Sanader is our vip guest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106069	Replication response. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106070	Because of these questions raised by Ombudsman Musa in essence and has no support, she asked these questions and of course this commissioner will not ask that question, he will not ask a single question which the public is interested in, which is mainly why you said young people are disappointed and it is unfortunately one of the bad ads for the Republic of Croatia and therefore, young people because of this perception and are leaving. That's why they're going not exactly to the promised countries, believe me, I was in Austria and Germany a few days ago, it's not exactly that promised, but that's why they're setting up people here who aren't professional, because the Sanaders are still in the system today. Sanaderism is still in the political system right now, and it is indeed against the tribune to fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106071	Thank you very much for bringing this to an end with individual debates, and now we have three applications on behalf of the club. The first is colleague Robert Podolnjak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MostA Independent Lists, final. Here you go, buddy Polnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106072	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, at the end of today's debate, which focused not only on the names of the Commissioners' office, or the Commissioner for Information, but also on the institution's strengthening of the independence of the institution, let me finally say something on behalf of the club about strengthening the independence of the Information Commissioner institution and what we really want to recommend to the person who will be elected to this post. In a recent commissionwoman, she said the next sentence, namely that the commissioner is completely independent and only negotiating the assembly, and the only way the government can put pressure is financially in terms of the budget. There was a delivery of words today about how we created an institution that we didn't give enough funding and that for years, little by little got a bigger budget, but today it's insufficient. And they are rightly advocates who have said that certain shifts are present and that today is the budget, I would say modest 3.5 million kuna after 5 years of the institution's creation and that the budget is insufficient for the work of the commissioners and his office. For years, the Commissioner has advocated in her reports the stricter sanctioning of violations and non-compliance with the law, has advocated sanctioning and public authorities' bodies, not just responsible persons. And we, as a rule, unanimously accepted those reports, and we also accepted the Commissioner's recommendations, but we did not change the law. The right to access information has not been amended since 2015, despite the recommendations made in the direction of financial strengthening of that institution. And that's not good. I don't think that the institution today, in addition to reflecting this cool fit and 14 employees, doesn't have enough resources for job inspections, there's not enough resources for education, nor to enlighten the public about the role of the institution. It is enough to tell you that to promote public rights to access information in the budget, Commissioner, for 2018. 60 thousand kn is secured. It's a marginal amount. The amount envisaged to strengthen the capacity of the public authority is €400000, of which the EU fund, €340000. So from our budget, only 60,000 kn. Too little money for everything that institution should do. If the intention of the ruling and current parliamentary majority is to strengthen the institution of the Commissioners, then the first thing we need to do in the budget for the next year is to strengthen the office, to give more resources, and to amend the Law on the right to access information, to adopt the Commissioner's recommendations, to set out the infringements and to sanction the public authorities, and not only the responsible persons, because it is precisely from its statement that the responsible persons have not generally been punished, because they have extended the infringement proceedings that have not been completed in due time. Unfortunately, therefore, if we want to comply with these recommendations now, strengthen the institution next to the source of the appropriate person to that duty, then we expect the strengthening of the institution in financial terms and this is exactly how the government and this Croatian Parliament will show that they care about the institution and that they will send the right message. Therefore, here is the responsibility, primarily for the government that proposes the budget, and then for us, to make this budget, in this sense, more quality and to oust the law in terms of strengthening sanctions for those who break the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106073	Thank you very much. I will take advantage of the opportunity to welcome the students and pupils of OŠ Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević from Zagreb and their teachers, welcome and welcome. ... We continue with the final presentation on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Arsen Bauk, please welcome colleague Bauk. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP Club will participate in the selection of Commissioners or Commissioners for Information, in the way provided for by law, which is therefore, in a secret vote, we will either support one or another candidate or one of us will insert an invalid ballot already on the conscience of the MPs. And that, as far as the narrow interpretation of this topic is concerned, would be everything. So there's a public call, there should be two candidates, two candidates left, and we have a formal task to put it to the vote tomorrow. As far as this debate is concerned, she's turned into a kind of salivary, per candidate, which wasn't exactly correct. And the disqualification went, about who did what or who said what. As far as we're concerned, we can't accept that kind of labelling of candidates. And I'm expressing this during a protest because of such a debate that's been conducted, whether it's sharper or not, it's left for everyone to see. Therefore, the Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information has a basic task, resolving complaints about solutions by public legal authorities for refusing access to information. If the Commissioner for Information resolves the appeal by accepting it, then the dissatisfied party may invest, initiate an administrative dispute and until the court resolves it, the information remains hidden. If he does not accept the appeal, then this other party, therefore, has the right, to file a administrative dispute with the court, which again makes a decision. The Commissioner for Information is actually in a very sensitive position. Because when it happens to him that twice the court doesn't confirm his decision to accept the arguments of the public legal authorities and deny the information, he disqualified himself. It simply shows that it protects the government more than it protects the citizens. And then, in that case, you need to seriously consider changing that person. Therefore, it is not exactly as they say, the most colleagues from the Bridge that the commissioner has some large maneuvering space protecting the government. Just the other way around. The safest thing for him is not to protect the government. Because if he overprotects the government or local self-government, then for the first time, the court will give him a yellow card, cancel his solution, and the second time he'll give him a red card, because it's obvious he's not doing his homework. And such a commissioner will be the most exposed person to the public with justified criticism, so I think that it will be both media and in any other way, unsustainable to behave that duty, will lose every credibility. So, in advance of attacking someone who, in his long career, has nothing to say now, he did it and let's disqualify him.' This was more he was here and there, then and then. Okay. It may be an argument to vote for someone else, but not to disqualify it in such a way, unargumented, for no big reason. As I conclude this topic, I hope that the new Commissioner or the Commissioner for Information will continue, so to speak, the practice of the former Commissioner for Information, their résumés indicate, one candidate has been employed in the Office of the Information and participated, probably working well with the so far Commissioner for Information, another candidate is one of the authors of the Law and also a good associate of the former Commissioner for Information. If they are in their work to show that they are deviating from the practice so far, that in their assessments they are more prone to government or local self-government, to public legal authorities, and less to the right of citizens, and the Court, they will disqualify themselves and will not be comfortable coming to debates on the Report of the Commissioner for Information that comes to the debate each year. And in this sense, it will support, SDP deputies will participate in the vote, support one of the candidates who has been proposed and will closely monitor how this institute that was introduced in the 2013 Act will continue to function, and which has so far proved to be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106075	Thank you. And the next, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, finally, colleague Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since my colleague Bauk once again clarified the procedure and what task was actually the Commissioner for Information, what we were and when he was a minister, and when the law was changed, had a lot of exchanges of opinions, I would say immediately if today the thesis that the Law should be changed, perhaps, we would see, but I believe that in the best way, the future Commissioner, given that what we warned, when we were in opposition, when the Law was passed, that this law, which is existing and which is in force, would also allow the abuse of information, has now happened, which is what the Commissioner has warned us about. However, colleagues and colleagues, what was not good today, what should not have happened today, should not have happened, remains for all of us in public space as something negative and as something we did not do well as representatives of the democratically elected government here in the Croatian Assembly of our fellow citizens. This is where the discreditation was heard, the work of one person was diminished, his expertise ignored, we differentiated everything he'd done so far in his work, professionally, very low, incorrectly and selectively. One of the candidates, in an unprecedented way, has tried colleagues, first of all from some other political parties, in some way to be aware of the person who is actually, and has no right to run for this function. Once again, the Commissioner for Information is elected in the Croatian Parliament, the Commissioner for Information is responsible for his work to the Croatian Parliament, his job must be carried out in accordance with the Law which prescribes his work. If it meets the conditions and meets the requirements, then we will decide who we give the vote to, and we have said 2 candidates have all the conditions in accordance with the Law and as prescribed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. When we talk about finance, I will say it again, and because they were changing colleagues here in the Assembly, so how much during the SDP it cared, not just at the declarative level, that the Commissioner's Office was functioning, it was seen from the millions and some thousand kuna allocated, 2014, by this year, so 2018, 3 million kuna. I hope that the future Commissioner will insist that the Office strengthens itself, for example in the Scottish office 35 people, why do I mention it, because the country is about as big as ours, we have 14, and I think that there will be support for all MPs who are so committed to achieving the democratic standards that remain or make them even higher. My colleagues and colleagues, after the initial years of application of the Law, have obtained the conditions, and that we can say that the Commissioner for Information or the Commissioner, and the Law itself, has made the bodies of the public authority in the Republic of Croatia proactive, we can say that we are much more satisfied than in the years when the Law entered into force, as well as I believe that we all want a truly transparent and open system, which will serve and be responsible to the citizens, as we have often said and therefore we must not, in our work, discredit anyone in such an irresponsible way, and when we call on the Croatian Parliament to report as one of the most responsible functions in the Republic of Croatia, because in such a way, we will not lose credibility, we will lose credibility, we will lose credibility, and when we call on the Croatian Parliament to report quality professionals for a duty, they will not, we do not, we do not want, we do not want to the pillar of what we do, we are not guilty, and you want to discredit us in such way. So, please be responsible, let us choose a person who has all the qualifications, all the preconditions to work well as the Commissioner for Information, and we must help him, be some sort of cartoon or guideline in what we have both imagined and the law of our democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106077	I am finalising the debate on the proposal for a selection of Commissioners for Information, and we will vote when the conditions are met, which is probably tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106078	We're going to the last point. Proposal for a candidate to elect a Commissioner for Information is submitted to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines the rule of conduct of a secret vote in case the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number elected, Art. 260. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Art shall apply. 260 to Art. 267. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest that three MPs help me conduct a secret vote and that of Marija Jelkovac, Vedran Babic and Mato Čičak, do you agree? If so, thank you. Voting lists can be downloaded here in a large hall, on my right, where there is also a ballot box, we are a little bit more, just a little bit, please. I would like to remind you that only 1 ballot can be voted on in person and only for the candidates listed on the ballot. A valid ballot is a ballot that can be identified in a safe and unequivocally by the candidate for whom the MP voted. The MP votes in such a way that the ballot rounds a regular number in front of the candidate's name for which he votes. I'm setting a 30-minute break. After the break, we will continue to work and carry out the club's position. It's 13,15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106079	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.45 HOURS]] 117 MPs voted, invalid ballots were 8. The candidates received the next number of votes. Mr. Sc. Dubravka Bevandić 22, dr.sc. Zoran Piculjan 87, I hereby declare that Dr. Zoran Piculjan. I find that the Croatian Parliament has made a decision on the selection of Commissioners for Information and we congratulate together. He's not here. There'll be a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106080	We continue in accordance with the article. 247, I suggest that: - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 375 and - Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products, second reading, P.Z.E. Let's unite number 342. Is anyone against it? If it isn't, then we'll unite those two laws. Therefore, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. The number 375 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 375. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172 190 Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on the item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 342, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 342. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172 190 Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on the agenda item, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law may also be submitted until the end of the debate, whichever is the case. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation, therefore, for both laws? Here you are, Mr Zdravko Zrinašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106081	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs at HS. As mentioned above before you are two Final Proposals of the Law, the first Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, and the second is the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products. As regards the Insurance Act, it was adopted at the eighth meeting of the HS on 6 July of this year, at the first reading, and on that occasion a conclusion was reached adopting the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, and the final proposal for a law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia is transposing EU Directives 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on the distribution of insurance. The aim of this new directive is to improve the way insurance products are sold in order to bring real benefits to EU consumers. It is important to note that the applicable Insurance Act, which was adopted in 2015 and which was fully applied, entered into force on 1 January 2016, was transposed Directive 2009/138 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 establishing and carrying out the activities of insurance and reinsurance, i.e. the so-called The Solvency 2 Directive, which has adopted significant innovations in the insurance market, whose key objectives are to increase the protection of insurance undertakings, set the range of insolvency that represents total exposure to all risks, setting the insolvency limit, avoiding the pro-cyclicity of regulatory provisions and anti-cicipating market changes. What is the situation today, with regard to the application of this directive, which is incorporated into legal regulations, according to the Croatian Insurance Office, at the end of 2017, 20 insurance companies were operating on the insurance market, of which 5 insurance companies only carried out life insurance activities, 7 companies exclusively in non-life jobs, while the remaining 8 companies performed jobs and life insurance. The gross premium charged to the insurance company in 2017 amounted to €9.06 billion, an increase of 3.24% compared to 2016, and growth in 2017 was achieved primarily in the growth of the non-life insurance market of 4.7%, while the life insurance market was unfortunately almost stagnated with a modest growth of 0.7%. Compared to 2016 when the total market achieved a slight growth of 0.4%, growth has been achieved in 2017 as the highest growth rate since 2018. As for the sales channel, the most significant distribution channels were internal representatives with 35.7% share in the charged premium, then the agencies with 21.1%, banks 17.7%, employees of the company 16.4%, brokers 7.8% and the remaining 1.3%, which is usually web sales when Web insurance companies themselves buy appropriate insurance policies. What news does the Final Proposal of the Law bring? This Final Bill introduces itself as a new roof concept of insurance distribution in accordance with the wording of the Insurance Distribution Directive. An information document on insurance products containing objective information on insurance products in a comprehensible form, which must be easy to read and must not be misleading by consumers, all to enable the consumer to make a decision on the purchase of insurance products or the conclusion of an insurance agreement. Consumer information must be obtained in the pre-contractual phase. In addition, a professional training and training obligation shall be introduced for insurance intermediaries at least 15 hours a year. Otherwise, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency deletes the person from the register if he fails to comply with the prescribed obligation. The areas of vocational training and training are now much and more detailed and wider. Further, additional criteria have been laid down for the operation of the sales of investment production services which, due to their complexity and in this respect, are also attached to this Regulation, which we are implementing by law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. So, sales of insurance investment products. Under the distribution of this type of product, special education will be required, and a higher level of understanding of the financing of different markets, and in particular the capital markets, while the seller of such installation products will have to take care of the financial knowledge and experience of consumers, their risk-taking tendencies, as well as their general economic opportunities. The provisions of the existing Insurance Act within the meaning of Directive 2009/138 E.Z. are also amended. in terms of insolvency with two due to observed deficiencies in the existing management of insurance companies or normative solutions. The main differences prescribed by the final proposal on the draft law itself, as the pension reform, within the Pension Insurance Act, was initiated in the meantime, by amendment of the Article. The 9th is proposed to the insurance companies... Life insurance services allow them to carry out the payment operations of the 3rd pension pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this is a basic material regulation regarding the pension system, a provision is now added within the Insurance Act in the context of the insurance company’s business, i.e. to enable them to make a voluntary pension payment, in the form of pensions, or third-degree pensions. It is important to note that this is provided for by EU Directive 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 22016 and such a proposal reduces the risk of a third retirement pension phase, and such opening of the market and promoting competition also affects a more favourable remuneration under voluntary pension savings. It is important to note that all insurance companies that pay such funds in a pension column are ultimately selecting themselves through which companies will make payments, whether through pension insurance, state or through several insurance companies listed here. Furthermore,... the possibility for insurance companies, i.e. insurance companies, brokerage companies and companies for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in ensuring that credit-mediation operations are carried out, if the same prior outcome is granted by the CNB, for residential consumer lending, the Ministry of Finance for Consumer Credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, provisions relating to the statutory audit of insurance companies in the sense of compliance with the provisions of the new Audit Act have been developed in such a way that the statutory audit of the insurance company can only be carried out by an audit company, which has at least 3 authorised auditors, who are employed in that audit company. Furthermore, it is possible for the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency to say so-called ... measures to identify the vulnerability of systems that may be a source of systemic risk prior to the breach of the rules on risk management, in order to prevent or mitigate them in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, stability was not a guarantee of the stability of the system as a whole or of the liquidity of certain companies. The term further provides for the possibility of carrying out insurance distribution operations by credit institutions, investment companies, Croatian postal and financial agencies for one or more insurance companies and the proposals of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee have been incorporated and transitional and final provisions have been developed. As regards the final proposal for the Law implementing EU Regulation 1286/2014, it was in its first reading at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament on 14 June and on that occasion the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion adopting the bill. And the final proposal is made to facilitate the direct application of this Regulation that I have just read. According to this Regulation, an investment product has been packaged for both small investors and an investment insurance product, short-listed so-called The PRIIP, any existing, future product which is a packaged investment product for small investors or investment insurance products, is a product or both, including among other investment products, such as shares in investment funds, life insurance policies with an investment element, and structured products and structured deposits. After that, see. The aim of the Regulation is to ensure that the necessary information is provided by small investors, for investments where the amount to be returned to such an investor is subject to fluctuation due to exposure to reference values or subject to the efficiency of one or more assets that the retail investor did not directly purchase. Furthermore, the aim is also to establish a common standard for drawing up a document with key information so-called "cash". a key information document to ensure that everything is understandable to small investors. In the Republic of Croatia, in the The PRIIPs already have certain investments that can be classified in these products, so so so on. ... That is, the insurance in which the contractor provides insurance borne the risk of investment, i.e. where the result for the insurance undertaking depends on the result achieved by the assets to which this insurance undertaking is linked, or the life insurance with the participation of profits, because the payment of the insurance in the share of the secured profits depends on market fluctuations or investment in financial derivatives, i.e., etc. derivatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important thing is that in the final proposal, a certain supervisory authority is established in accordance with the provisions of the regulation, which is HANFA, mechanisms are prescribed to encourage the inflows of possible or actual infringements of the regulations and infringements are prescribed to act against the regulation, and in relation to the proposal itself, there have been no fundamental changes between the 2 parliamentary readings, i.e., there have been certain nootechnic harmonisations. Finally, the final proposals of one law and the other, continued harmonisation with EU legal bankruptcy, in the Croatian legal system, with the aim of the Croatian retail investor enjoying the same level of protection as other EU members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106082	Nice. We have three replicas on your exhibit, first mate Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106083	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, regarding the Final Proposal for the Insurance Act, one question, namely in the final proposal of the Law, is given the possibility, to the insurance companies, to make payments from voluntary pension insurance in the form of a pension rent. Of course, everything related to the approval of the HANFA itself, but we know that in 2017, in particular by introducing this directive, solvency 2 many insurance companies have been shut down in Croatia, I am interested in this particular 3 pillar and payments, what happens and what insurance if a particular insurance company is shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106084	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106085	Thank you, Mr. Representative, as I have also commented in the material regulation, so the Pension Insurance Act introduces the possibility that insurance companies carrying out life insurance activities may, in accordance with the Directive, also make payments to the third pension column. These payments are usually made by individuals who ultimately choose whether to do so through a particular insurance company or through a government fund. Only insurance implies that these assets cannot be subject to bankruptcy, and in that sense, such a legal solution already exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106086	Thank you, next replica of my colleague Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106087	I thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, above all, only briefly, so I think that this law on insurance and the directive on which it is based, or from which one good thing that actually taught us history when we talk about the unfavorable events of the banking sector and all those practices that were and di people didn't know exactly, is now exactly how it should be, or any conclusion of the contract on any of these products that are listed. You mentioned and professional training of this law is an obligation to implement it for a minimum of 15 hours a year. You yourself said that this is broadly arranged, but now I'm interested in exactly who is implementing it, under what conditions, which the competent authority, who has the right, whose certificate is recognised means it's not governed by this law, but if you can explain to us some rule or any way that it will be practically enforceable. Of course, I'm asking because we've had a lot of such provisions during our history, and then later they're lost or they're suitable for certain things. monopolies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106088	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106089	Thank you, Mr. Representative, so as visible from the proposal for the HANFA law, it will take away the authorisations for the work of such individuals who do not meet, and in relation to the implementation, it is envisaged that the HANFA will adopt an appropriate regulation that will prescribe the way in which that education is implemented and supervised. The supervision will carry out from HANFE itself to other bodies that are measurable for such a type of activity Yeah. [[Agreement: Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Others.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106090	Thank you, and the last replica of your presentation, colleague Sagar Tomislav, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106091	Thank you, Vice-President and esteemed Secretary of State, so any legal solution that goes in to tell the help of citizens or of which education does not necessarily need to have the same knowledge as those who give them these products have to welcome. However, if you can comment on only 2 questions, firstly it is the insurance market in the Republic of Croatia, the relationship between non-life insurance and life insurance especially in the non-life part of auto liability insurance because it seems to me that they are ahead of the total mass of insurance in the Republic of Croatia and this is not very good compared to developed countries and the second one has appeared in the media whether the true announcements of products called reverse mortgages are true. Is there anything about that, any knowledge at the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106092	Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106093	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question. So what you're saying is logical and everything will be done to make the funds that end up being paid safe in terms of choice. As to whether or not there will be a counter mortgage, my colleague comments that meetings are currently under way at the technical level of the debate whether such things will be allowed. So the system is represented as regards property insurance or life insurance significantly stagnating that it is not good that one type of savings ultimately we can also identify that it is a certain kind of pension savings that is not recognized as one of the pillars under the pension rules, but it is certainly the mass of people who pay themselves such policies and will be through the rent when they go into retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106094	We continue to discuss the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and the final proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products, second reading, P.Z. number 342. The first is an application on behalf of Representatives' Club of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Miro Bulj. My colleague Mira Bulja is missing, which means he's losing the right to talk about this subject. We're moving on. The next club is the HDZ club where they have a debate divided by counterpart Bačić and colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106095	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will deal with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, and my colleague, Peric, will continue to apply to the second point. In this final proposal, for starters, the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of the Insurance Companies themselves, the Reinsurance Companies and the mutual insurance companies have been laid down, and the conditions for which other Member States and third countries are insurance companies to carry out insurance operations in the field of the Republic of Croatia, whose supervision is of course controlled by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, i.e. HANF. Important amendments and additions to this final proposal are related to two directives and this Solvency 2 Directive and the Insurance Distribution Directive, which greatly changed the conditions on our insurance market and in our insurance companies, so that, at the end of October 2017, there was a total of 20 insurance companies that met all the working conditions and the number of companies themselves, which is also related to the harmonisation of the Insurance Act relating to the Solvency 2 Directive. As regards the number of companies for representation, it is on a slight rise and it is important to stress that in 2016 the insurance companies totalled a gross premium of 8.8 billion kuna, which is $42.9 million. 0.5% higher than the premium achieved in 2015. It is important to point out that the overall assets of the Insurance and Reinsurance Society on 31 December 2016 amounted to nearly 40 billion kuna, 39.8 and increased by 1.2 billion i.e. compared to the previous year. 3.1%. As far as this Final Proposal is concerned, we also discussed in the first reading, but it is important to highlight, a large part of the material is related to this Law. But these main objectives, I think, definitely and in compliance with the directives, go the way of the final consumer, go the way of the final buyer and we bring this Insurance Market Act and more transparency. It is also important to stress that consumers must have the same level of protection, regardless of any differences in distribution channels. However, only the introduction of a standardised insurance product information document and greater protection of the end-user of the insurance product when buying a particular insurance product package where it is offered with only insurance and some additional service. It was also in recent amendments to the law that certain shortcomings related to compliance with Recommendation 29 relating to the implementation of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures, which are now in line with this Final Proposal and introduces certain new concepts such as the distribution itself of insurance which implies the activity of the proposal and the conclusion of the Insurance, Consulting on Insurance Contracts or other preparatory actions relating to the conclusion of the Insurance Treaty itself. We must stress and think that this will very much mean to our consumers, and to the purchasers of the insurance package, related to this Final Bill, is the introduction of a Information Document on the product of insurance from art. 20 of the insurance distribution directive itself, which means that before the conclusion of the non-life insurance agreement itself, the distributor is obliged to provide the consumer with objective information on the product of insurance in an understandable form to enable the consumer to make an informed decision. Therefore, it will no longer be some complex document, but a simplified display, which the insurance companies will have to provide to the end-user before the conclusion of the Treaty itself, where accurate and predetermined information will be precisely and predetermined and related to the status of the persons selling insurance products, the type of compensation they receive and everything else that is very important in the pre-contractual phase for each buyer to make a final quality decision regarding their insurance package. The registers themselves and the compliance will be managed by the HANF, it is important to stress that the HANF registers will also be published on their websites together with the European Insurance Supervisory Authority and the occupational pension insurance which will also publish the compliance of its registry and the significant novelty is the introduction of at least 15 hours of annual vocational training and training that we have here and at the outset heard through the replicas of the Secretary of State that HANFA will develop a special regulation that will regulate this professional training and training should look and believe that and how it will be looked, because certain and brokers and insurance agents will be able to lose if they do not. they shall not resolve professional training and training in such a way as to lose their licences. As regards this final draft of the law, the rules on product surveillance and governance are also introduced, it is important to highlight this more complex part of the insurance market, which is related to the investment products of the law, are prescribed and harmonised, but we can stress the more important differences between these two readings, which we have at the very beginning in the opening explanation of the State Secretary himself, which I think are also important changes and which follow this pension reform, which is that it is possible for insurance companies to make payments from voluntary pension insurance in the form of a third pillar pension scheme, and the possibility for insurance companies and companies to represent insurance and brokerage operations in insurance and brokerage companies in reassurance operations to carry out credit-mediation operations. Of course, for all of this and for this first part related to the third pillar, the approval of HANFE should be obtained while this second part should be subject to the approval of the Croatian National Bank itself, which will allow for another type of business to be provided to insurance companies and to be extended to additional forms of market. All in all, the HDZ Club will support this final bill, amendment and addition of the Insurance Act, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106096	Here's your co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106097	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the Honored Secretary of State with an associate, and here I am going to make a connection and it is related to the Final Proposal for the Law implementing Regulation No 1286/2014. a it is documents with key information for packaged investment products. In fact, during this crisis, the economic crisis has shown that small investors, investors are generally very unprotected and they are not and do not have enough information about what is happening on the financial market, and they also did not have enough information in the negotiation of any contract, and that is why this regulation has actually created which allowed all these dilemmas and the unprotection of these very small investors to happen in the future. So on your Europa website you can actually find provisions in which every small investor is shown in a very visible way what he can and must look for before the contract is signed and what is important for it to be all available and comparable to all bidders on the financial market. In this way it actually reduces the risk and thus investors themselves, small investors in one way reduce their costs and sometimes unforeseen losses. The provision in this way, and this Regulation, in fact, defines the packaged so-called. investment products and these include, among other things, investment products in investment, investment funds, life insurance policies with an investment element, structured products and structured deposits. Assets directly held as shares in companies or government bonds are not and do not fall within the packaged investment products and are excluded from this Regulation. Individual and individual professional retirement products based on national law should also be excluded from the scope of this Regulation. What this Regulation brings forward, and nothing new in relation to first reading, determines that the body responsible for the implementation of the regulation is the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, where the work and its powers are determined, is also prescribed by the mechanisms which affect and which encourage the reporting of possible or actual infringements of this Regulation. It also prescribes a violation of the anti-registration and the level of those fines for individual infringements of legal and natural persons. All of this, in fact, and how much it means to other EU members, is therefore unified, each country has its own regulation or application in the way it considers best, but the status and rights of small investors are evenly balanced compared to other EU members, and we, as investors, are much more protected than what has happened so far. So all of this is very useful and it is good to regulate relations in this way and the HDZ Club supports this law as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106098	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next is a colleague, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106099	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, very briefly, I think we're going to have this proposed Insurance Act today, so changes and additions usually bring us what we lacked. Of course we rely on the directive, but he thinks that this directive itself, when we see her year, and we used to introduce here in this House and the Directive up to the age of 5, 6 years. This is one of the words of the newer ones that have just come out of me from the perceived situation that occurred in the banking sector, so the same financial sector where we had the lawsuits that we have today and in Croatia, in terms of contractual obligations, clients where not all the information was subsidized, where from the currency clause, from the change of interest, so I think that here is working on something exactly to make it a minimum, in order to regulate exactly what, when it has to be presented, how to understandly present certain financial data, i.e. full discipline, so what would you say in English... what they sign. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first of all, that greater transparency. And what I like when it is also mentioned in the main objectives of the insurance distribution directive that consumers must have the same level of protection regardless of the differences between distribution channels. So first of all, there's one concept of equality with that transparency I've already said. So a simple and standardised information document on the insurance product. So especially if we are looking at the European market in which our insurance companies now appear, not only in the domicile market but also in Austria and Italy. Of course, we can also expect to depend on the market for ourselves and on the appearance of other insurance houses. Of course, all this leads to a lower price, at least we should, but of course to some inconsistency, or we don't know exactly what we're getting for our money to say so. By the way, in October 10th or October of this year, about a gross premium, you just get the impression that it's a market of about 8.5 billion kuna, just for the 10th month of this year. Of which non-life insurance is more than two-thirds, so 68%, and in these non-lifes again, one third of which makes car insurance the most of course and... i.e. compulsory car insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it's 1.85 billion out of 5.7... Not life, they make up a big part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course there are different concepts, different ways, that not every car insurance is the same, that some give and when people themselves, our citizens see that some shelf for the same car equal power, equal age, equal purchase value for one insurance company is 1000 and the other has to pay 1500 and then you see that difference, most often you don't see that. However, what is certainly seen when problems start, when what they say is there always in insurance in case of some don't give God an accident or an accident then our citizens actually come to see what these very differences were. Furthermore, what is very important as far as it is concerned and in line with the Consumer Protection Act, in the end of the line, because this directly relys on that part, it is likely that when the insurance product is offered together with an additional product or service which is not part of the package or contract, this will also require greater protection of the consumer himself to provide an adequate description of the components of the contract or package or as separate evidence of the costs and fees of each individual component. So, I think we need the education of our fellow citizens, first and foremost through these and the introduction of the rules of transparency but first and foremost to allow for the simplicity of access that is easy and easy to explain what is obtained and to what it is bound by the conclusion of contracts or the payment of certain fees or premiums to insurance providers. What's important is that, what I've already mentioned in the replica is that a little bit as a significant novelty of introducing at least 15 hours of professional training, I'd like and perfecting, I'd... for people who, who are dealing with product distribution and insurance, explain this a little bit because examples of ours, especially in Croatia, are such that a lot has been given to certain entities or legal entities to be let's say some kind of monopolies which may not really be good for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if something is prescribed that you have to go 15 hours a year to education and it is only to give authority to one body then it is not always best received from citizens, nor may you get the best ratio of the invested or the price compared to what was obtained. That's where I'd like that market to open up, that's exactly where there are clear conditions that it can be done by a wider group that finds themselves some business calculations, that is, interest in that, and not to say that it has to be like we have xy examples and protection at work, but also in training in public procurement where certain things are certainly good, because there means in that extra education where certain hours must be collected in three years, if I'm not mistaken, then 32 hours of additional education must be collected, and that can be done by private people and anyone else but I think what's not mentioned, and it's prescribed by the Pension Insurance Society Act is, for example. The following, according to the Pension Insurance Society Act, pensions can only be made after the 50th year of life. Does this mean that the pension insurance company will be able to pay off, for example? and at the age of 35, is that the meaning of the country's fostered pension savings? According to the Pension Insurance Company Act, the user can be paid up to 30% once, while the Insurance Act should not limit that requirement, so the Insurance Company could, for example, pay off. 90% is one-time. Is that again the meaning of the country's fostered pension savings? Under the Pension Insurance Companies Act, temporary assets from voluntary pension insurance cannot be agreed on for a period of less than 5 years. According to the Insurance Act, there would be no such restriction, so the Insurance Company could, for example, agree. The payment of one year's pension income and the same rhetorical question again is that the purpose of the country's encouraging pension savings? There's still a difference. Not to count them all now, these are just some of them. But these different restrictions, in fact, are not in line with another law, which is the Competition Act. What I expect is, of course, that some of the pension insurance companies will file complaints about this, since, as I said, now some restrictions relating to pension insurance companies do not apply to other companies, so this Insurance Act puts others in a better position. What, for example, can still be singled out as a hole in the law and what can be used, not as abuse, but as, therefore, a hole in the law is next, the state gives 15% incentive to voluntary pension savings, or no more than 750,00 kn. Some user, any one of us, can save a year 5,000.00 kn in a voluntary fund, pick up a 15% boost, so very good interest and no interest fund. After a year, a temporary pension agreement with a one-year duration would be concluded, take a maximum of 5%, so 10%, but it's still a very good interest. And at the end of the paid rent, I would re-pay 5,000.00 kn into a voluntary pension fund and re-uptake 15 percent of the incentives. So I ask you rhetorically again, is that the point of encouraging retirement savings? So, when amending the law, in this case of the Insurance Act, we need to be very careful, as well as to regulate some entities on the market not to put ahead or a better position than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106100	Thank you. We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs. Next is counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Comrade Hajdukovic, do you want more individually? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106101	Thank you, very briefly, since I also have an amendment that I filed on my own behalf, so not on behalf of the club. Just a few words about him, so I would suggest some changes. 4. The law amending and supplementing the law on insurance since the proposed amendment of the Insurance Act allows for payments from the Voluntary Pension Fund to the Insurance Companies, where it is proposed that in the course of the payment of the pension rent, the Insurance Society should act in accordance with only certain provisions of the Law governing the establishment and operation of the Mirovinski insurance companies relating to pension programmes. This leaves out the obligation of the insurance company to act in accordance with some important provisions of the Law which determines the establishment and operation of the Mirovinski insurance companies, for example concerning temporary pensions, partial and one-time payments, guaranteed payments, the age for obtaining payment rights, and intervention reserves. In view of the fact that it is a savings for the pension on which members are entitled to state incentives, and that payments from Voluntary Pension Insurance are governed by the Pension Insurance Society Act, the amendment I propose guarantees the equality of the rights of pensioners, as well as the obligations of payers, therefore, the Insurance and Peace Insurance Companies. In relation to all provisions of the Act governing the establishment and operation of Mirovinski insurance companies, other than provisions relating to the insolvency of the insurance company. Therefore, the insolvency provisions for the Insurance Company transferred to the Insurance Act relate to the Solvency 2 Directive until they are transposed by the Law to the Mirovinski Insurance Companies, and do not apply to the Mirovinski Insurance Companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106102	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic, and last individual debate, colleague Stjepan Curaj, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106103	Thank you, Vice President. Only colleagues, Hajdukovic, would have been briefly supplemented by Voluntary Pensions, this, Voluntary Pension Co-operation or the third pillar cannot be used before the 50th year of life, only then can rent or provide rent or continue to pay. So this can't happen every year. What I forgot to say on behalf of the club, and let you certainly draw attention to insurance, Agricultural insurance, therefore, our farmers. According to some data, only 15% of our processing area is secured. Some insurance didn't offer at all, say, in that part of the insurance from the drought. Because the land is not irrigated, only some have appeared in the last few years that have a shelf there. So, I'm sure we need more information, more education, and, of course, everything this law brings out of simplicity, transparency, in a way that ensures everything from the insurance of these elementary disasters, so when we talk about meteorological drought because our people, our examples, we have from real life, who secured crops, they didn't really know, here's a concrete example, they didn't know that this insurance didn't cover drought. And they paid the premium, and the Treaty said it, they simply didn't, or they weren't presented in the way that we propose here, of course, it's just one of a series of examples, and that with this we certainly have to, don't stop at this, continue to work on that financial literacy of our citizens and all of the areas of the Treaty's conclusion, especially what has financial effects, when we talk about pension, insurance, banking services, and that this is on that trail which we need to continue to develop and structure that market, not limit the market, but introduce clear rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106104	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No 375 and Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 documents with key information for packaged investment products, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 342 We will vote on both points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106105	We will now move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 375. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by a representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic and a club of HDZ deputies. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, which is Minister of Finance, Honorable Zdravko Maric, please. First, the Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106106	Honorable Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept the proposed amendment. Amendment of the order proposed. 4 to which the Art is amended. The 7th century is 6th century. The insurance law is not acceptable because it does not comply with the Directive. Therefore, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 which regulates the optional application of the institution covered by the Directive, so on. Solvency 2 or solvence 2 relating to the Insurance Company does not allow for exceptions to the application of the insolvency provisions exclusively. By the way, the Directive taxifies the possibility of applying certain provisions of Directive York 2 to the Insurance Company, excluding the application of certain insolvency provisions 2 and cannot be selectively applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106107	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not happy with this argument because no matter what the directive says, I think we're putting a mess into our legislation, and that's the more we haven't overlooked a few things in advance. In particular, insurance companies are placed in a privileged position with respect to the Mirovinski Insurance Companies or the proposed amendment to the Insurance Act allow payment from Voluntary Pension Insurance Companies, where it is proposed that, when paying out the pension rent, the Insurance Company should act in accordance with only certain provisions of the Law governing the establishment and operation of pension insurance companies, which relate to pension programmes. This leaves out the obligation of the Insurance Society to act and, in accordance with some applicable provisions of the Law governing the establishment and operation of the Peace Insurance Companies, which, for example, relate to temporary pensions, partial, one-time payments, guaranteed payments, home for acquisition, pardon, age for obtaining payment rights, and intervention reserves. In view of the fact that it is not, excuse me, that it is a savings for the pension to which members are entitled to a state incentive, and that payments from Voluntary Pension Insurance are governed by the Pension Insurance Companies Act, the proposed Amendment ensures the equality of the rights of the pensioner, as well as the obligation of the payer, in this case by the Insurance and Pension Insurance Companies in relation to all provisions, the Law governing the establishment and operation of the Mirovinski insurance companies other than the provisions relating to the insolvency of the insurance company. Since the amendments to the Peace Insurance Society Act are in the process, and unfortunately I have not yet been able to see them, regardless, ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106109	Thank you. The HDZ representative club has given four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106110	The government accepts all four amendments proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106111	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106112	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 375. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Domagoj Hajdukovic and the HDZ Representatives' Club. We held a statement on the amendments at the meeting held on 30 November 2018 and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So, the first amendment by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The HDZ representative club had 4 amendments and all 4 were accepted to become an integral part of the bill. So now we will vote on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 95 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106139	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Foundation Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 345. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments shall be submitted until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. If the proposing representative wishes to give an additional explanation, with us is State Secretary Katica Prpic, Ministry of Administration, Mrs Prpic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106140	Dear Mr Vice-President, respected representatives and representatives of the current 1995 Foundations and Foundations Act, the establishment, establishment, activity, termination of trust and foundation and supervision of their work has been arranged, while the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2001 Act provides for registration and termination of representation of foreign foundations and foundations and supervision of their work. Based on this law, the Ministry of the Administration is taking up tasks relating to the establishment and operation of foundations, foundations and representations of foreign foundations and foundations and runs a trust book in the register of foreign foundations and foundations in the Republic of Croatia. On 14 June 2018, the Croatian Parliament adopted the proposal of the Foundation Act and sent all comments, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. The final proposal of the Foundations Act does not make any difference more than the proposal of the Foundations Act, and in the same way, in accordance with the observations of the Committee of the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament of 29 May 2018, the no-technically completed statement of certain provisions was made and all no-technical remarks were accepted. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law relate to the addition of the provisions on the concept of the trust so that it clearly results in the possibility of establishment and foundation with a charity purpose and, consequently, the meaning of the charity is prescribed. A provision on the enrolment of foreign trusts with competent offices has been added, and an amended article specifying where a member of the Management Board or other body of the trust may not decide as well as certain provisions on the use of the property, or the availability of the property in.../incomprehensible/... the termination of the trust and has been deleted as an excess provision on the registration of a register of the trusts of certain data on the event that a bankruptcy procedure is initiated on the basis of the law. Following this, the Final Proposal of the Foundation Act in relation to the applicable law is proposed as follows. A simpler and shorter procedure for the establishment and registration of the foundation at the offices of the state administration in the county or the City of Zagreb, responsible for the affairs of the General Administration towards the foundation headquarters, rather than as previously prescribed by the Ministry of Administration. Those offices would be responsible for the management of the trust register as well as the register of foreign foundations to which foreign foundations, i.e. present representations of foreign foundations and foundations, will be entered. Since it is under the applicable law that three solutions are needed to enable the trust to take effect now by adopting only one solution and, within 30 days of the duly submitted request, simplifys the procedure. In determining the concept of the foundation, it is further emphasized that the Foundation is a non-profit legal person without members, as opposed to, for example, an association within the meaning of the Association Act. Therefore, it is proposed to determine the concept of a trust fund to which the trust property is intended to serve, on its own or on its own income, to achieve a common useful or charitable purpose. It shall be prescribed under which conditions the Foundation may carry out economic activities and under which conditions assets are established, the underlying assets of the Foundation may be increased or reduced. The provisions on the internal structure and management of the trust shall leave the possibility of a flexible structure and management and the crucial will of the trustee shall be drawn up by means of an act establishing a trust on these issues. The possibilities for implementation of status changes, attachments, mergers and divisions are laid down, thus solving the existing legal gap and responding to real problems and situations in which the foundations are located in everyday practice. It is more clear that inspection supervision is required and that the process of termination of the foundation is simplified, which will ultimately contribute to the real identification of the number of active foundations. It is proposed to delete the foundation as a legal form of trust, but limited duration of 5 years and to propose to delete provisions on the trust commissioner and the trustee council which have not been revived in the long-term application of the law. The adoption of this law will make important moves in the normative framework for the operation of the foundation in the Republic of Croatia and will ensure greater transparency and public action of the foundation, and thus greater space to strengthen citizens' trust in the work of foundations as an important actor of organised civil society and increasingly important factors of social and economic life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106141	I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106142	I thank the Vice President, I only have one question regarding the tax treatment of the foundation, is the foundation prescribed for the thresholds that apply to all legal entities are they also worth the funds for entering the VAT system? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106143	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106144	This issue is governed by a special law, not by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106145	Thank you. If the committee reporter wants to take a word for it, we're not going to argue. I hereby open a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106146	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Assembly, the respected State Secretary Prpic with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Foundation Act, which includes in society the space of innovation and creativity that is independent in the country and some other interests, the space of new sustainable changes in society and the catalyst of new development programmes. In 1995, the Laws on Foundations and Foundations for the first time organized their establishment, structure and activity, and supervision of work. In 2001, the amendments to this law, the registration and termination of the foreign foundations and foundations were made. During that time period, the number of registered trusts in the Republic of Croatia grew, and 47 foundations were registered in 2001, 2008. 124, all the way to today's 242 foundation, 10 foundations and 9 foreign foundations and foundations. Given the apparent increase in the number of foundations, as well as the observed lacks of previous laws in practice, the need for a new legal framework was created, which would be encouraging for the development of the foundation, but at the same time guaranteed, transparent management and action. It is necessary to inform citizens of the general useful and charitable purpose of the trusts of which society should benefit more, in this way, and they themselves will be able to recognise quality work, individual foundations, but also their potential non-transparent action. Highlight certain parts of the law, which better regulate a number of issues in the field of foundation in the Republic of Croatia. The first unnecessarily observed existence of 3 solutions, which had to be made, in order for the foundation to start working at all, this administrative obstacle, has been significantly reduced, and now only one solution is needed and within 30 days, which simplifies the procedure and encourages the establishment of new foundations. The new law also provides for the conditions under which foundations can carry out economic activities, as well as the conditions under which the underlying assets of the foundation can be increased or reduced. And let us remind, under the provisions of the previous law, the conditions for the reduction of personal property were not prescribed. Provisions on the internal structure and management of the trust, leaving much greater room for the trustees themselves, to manage the work of the trust in a way that is more effective in achieving their direct charity. When it comes to the need for transparent work of the foundation, this law highlights the public register of trusts and registers of foreign foundations and their transparency of action. The data included in the registers will be made public on the Ministry of Administration's pages, and the publication of annual reports on the work of the foundation is proposed, so that the interested public and potential donors will be as familiar with their work as possible, which will also contribute to strengthening the confidence of the citizens themselves. In addition to the above, this law provides a number of other constructive solutions, which will be encouraging for the development of the foundation and also to encourage transparent management and action. Most importantly, it is that the state becomes an even better partner to all those who express their will and commitment to charity, and it is necessary to allow the foundations to visit their work most to achieve their purpose. And as long as their work and contribution is positive at the same time transparent and legal, obstacles should be removed to develop their potential and influence on Croatian society. Based on all this, the HDZ Club will support this Final Bill on Foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106147	Thank you. The SDP advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate, MP Arsen Bauk will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Foundation Act has long been in force and certainly deserves one incursion, i.e. to refresh it a little bit and what started in practice, that it should be repaired, to be fixed. In addition, this is an obligation from the national strategy to create a potential environment for the development of civil society, for the period 2012-2016. And in that sense, the solutions proposed are on track for the objectives of this strategy. As far as the most important changes, which can be made public in this bill, it concerns the enforceability of a solution to register changes in the trust register. In fact, so far, it has been if the court had made a final decision if it were to be a dispute, and now it is proposed to settle it in such a way that changes in registration are recorded in the register by the excellence of the solution made by the ministry. The previous solution was one kind of alibi, a situation for the ministry, because it could always be called to wait for the court, so you couldn't have made much of a mistake. A step like this is one step that can be welcomed. I hope the ministry doesn't get in big trouble with that. Because usually if there are disputes about the trust, then it's a dispute over property and making a solution before the court, which would be executed before the court's confirmation goes into one risk, that some things get complicated needlessly. However, if the ministry has analysed the proceedings so far, there is no reason to oppose it, if it turns out to be a problem, let it change. As in the first reading, given that the reasons set out in the amendment law, in the adoption of new laws, were seen even before the law was proposed, and in previous g. that solutions on the threshold of removing these problems, which were encountered in daily work and that they were also on the trail of a solution from the national strategy to create an incentive environment for the development of civil society for the period 2012-2016. The SDP representative club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106149	For individual participation in the debate, MP Bojan Glavasevic reported, not there, losing his right to speak. For the individual, also participating in the debate, MP Stjepan Curaj reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106150	Thank you, Vice President. Just for a little while, since you either didn't know or didn't want to say, and I think it's still about the trusts, whether the foundations are entering the value added tax system as a legal person. So, here in the law, of course, the value added tax, where it says so, so I'll just say for the public, that what's a little bit, that sounds pretty vague to me, says that they go based on an assessment, only tax administrations or the application of some other taxpayers, then they can estimate that the foundation performs, and they carry out some economic activities, this is what we prescribe that they can do. They will then assess whether they will be included in the VAT system or not, which is, let's say, slightly, exceptionally, if they are carrying out economic activities, then taxing that activity would lead to the acquisition of justified market benefits. The tax administration will, on its own initiative or on the proposal of other taxpayers and others, etc. etc. make a decision to include in fact that they are compulsory even in profit tax. Which is a little bit me, just contradictory of this law, because trusts are like such nonprofits. And on top of that, I couldn't find in the law whether it was planned at all, perhaps by some other law, so I ask you here, that foundations can establish other legal forms in Croatia. So the foundation can be the founder of a specific d.o.o. either co-owner or owner or have shares, ownership shares of any other legal form. And why do I ask that, in the West, where a much more developed system of trusts is developed, regardless of which I will refer once again to the final question, where a lot is used in the tax ejaculation, as a foundation, as such. It is stated here that one of the basic activities, for reasons why the foundation is founded, must be some social accepted charity, in what proportion? So, does it have any ratios if one of the entire assets’ business foundations, which is 100, will carry out some socially acceptable activity, or will help something of 5%? Whether this can continue to be considered to be a regular business within the trust or whether it must be 95% or must be the majority of its business income, especially if the trusts are carried out, are designated to participate in the market, carry out certain economic activities. Because we know that a lot of those, if we talk about America, who actually designed this whole trust fund functioning system, the foundation is used in the tax evasive. Where actually the foundations are owners and other actions and people actually live and receive rent from that foundation and from that is the funding and all the property is in the foundation. Was that the most favourable way to function? So here we want to actually see in one way, that we encourage the establishment of a foundation, certainly, because all this is done by someone, which makes sense to perform, social or charity any kind of activity and role in society is commendable. Just so you don't serve as some alibi, for what's clearly and loudly done, far before, far more in the Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106151	This closes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9.30. The first item on the agenda is the declaration of amendments to the tax code package. Thank you. Session interrupted at 14.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-20-0.u106152	Final proposal of the Foundation Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 345. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Treasury Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 107 for and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Foundation Act.
