ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am asking that the SDP club be consulted on the agenda point, and it is related to the situation that took place in Agrokor and our serious suspicions, as Prime Minister Plenkovic continues to defend Minister Dalic from the organised criminal octopus headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, Mrs Dalic, and who pulled five hundred million kunas out of Agrokor and we want to discuss it because we think it is unacceptable that the crisis in Agrokor was used to make people rich in this way. Five hundred million kunas were extracted from Agrokor. Why through Ukraine? This is a question for Mr. State Attorney, why not pay the branch of the Americans in London or the United States, but in Ukraine, and we think that since Prime Minister Plenkovic, we also see today a firm defense of Mrs. Dalik, Mr. Ramljak and these consultants who defiled the mustache for five hundred million kunas, that it is an organized criminal octopus that was the goal of, unfortunately, at the crisis in Agrokor extracting five hundred million kunas while our people in Croatia are leaving Croatia while our people are out of work, while the pensioners live on 2,000 or less kuna, these people used power to get rich and we need to discuss it and we have to take our position as a Croatian Parliament, because people point to us that you have allowed such a legal framework of gentlemen from HDZ to get rich. How is that possible? Why didn't you put in protective mechanisms, which makes the law different than it was in Italy where it couldn't have happened? These are questions that Croatian citizens are asking us MPs, and we have to take a stand on this. So I'm going to say one more time, given that Prime Minister Plenkovic is still protecting Mrs. Martina Dalic is a corrupt octopus, which he unfortunately leads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78217	Thank you. All right, I'll approve a break according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78218	A fellow coat of arms, a colleague of Bulls and you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given that we have a agenda point relating to the Law on State Property Management, the SDP Representatives Club would like to request a break on that point, and please allow me to ask for reasons to seek this break and explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78221	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78222	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78223	Thank you. What is the most valuable state property the Republic of Croatia has? Of course, we'll say all the seas, shores, our nature, etc. But in addition, the most valuable property the Republic of Croatia has includes our share of the INA and Croatian electricity industry. Although the Honorable Mr. Minister publicly says that the privatisation of HEP knows nothing and that it is not addressed, this week we have had the opportunity to know that there are those who are being directed. We know from the published texts that the Borg group was not originally formed for Agrokor and for the story about Agrokor, but was formed because of the privatisation of HEP and the nationalisation of INA that was to be financed by this money. We at the SDP Club are extremely concerned because we had the opportunity to see what Borg did when he went to Agrokor and we are afraid, unless we talk publicly about it so that the same assimilation could happen with both INA and HEP, and then the damage that would have occurred to the Republic of Croatia would be immeasurable. We know that Mr. Ramljak, who happily flew off his post, participated in the Borg group. We know that the Borg group formed Mrs. Dalic, who also flew away happily, but in the whole group of Borg there was one more person standing in his position, which is Prime Minister Plenkovic, who knew everything he was doing, who called for meetings there, and therefore I would like to warn and ask you to give us 10 minutes to consult on what to do to prevent the prime minister from allowing the Borg to assimilate with Agrokor INA and HEP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78225	Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for the reason that we should consult once again on the unprecedented situation in Croatia and what in every normal country would be a cause for the government's departure, for the prime minister's resignation, not to talk about other things. In us, Mr. Plenkovic, HDZ, you act like everything is normal, like nothing's happening. Today, we have new information about Mr Plenkovic and the HDZ Government's involvement in the Borg and Agrokor affair, but no, you act like nothing is happening. Moreover, it has also encouraged you and you are proposing new laws that will rob Croatian citizens such as the Law on Floating LNG where you want to take hundreds of years of money out of your pocket to make some new Borg people rich and maybe these are the same Borg people, only their e-mails have yet to be seen. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, do not agree on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to cover the crime that took place in Agrokor, do not create a country from Croatia where it is normal to tear down the institutions of the Croatian state where private interests can take over the government and the ministry and the post of Deputy Prime Minister, do not allow and give hope to the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of Croatia to live in a normal country. I'm looking for a break and I'm inviting everyone to resist it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78254	Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78255	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break because of the situation in Agrokor, as colleagues have said. Yesterday we realized that what we have been suggesting for the past year proved to be accurate, so a narrow group that lists Mr Plenkovic, Minister Dalic, Minister Marić, Mr Ramljak, Mr Tomislav Matic from the tex management. She created one, as they said, bunker, I'd say, innkeeper crew who did the law the way she wanted for her interests and then actually gave herself later jobs. This is clearly a violation of Article 295. The penal law, therefore, is a trade in influence, it is an eclectic conflict of interest, in any legal country, I would say, to modern democracy, it would immediately mean the resignation of the prime minister and the resignation of the prime minister. It is clear that we have not yet reached that level because the prime minister is relativizing all this, although it is clear that this is a breach of democratic procedure. In a normal democracy, it would publicly reveal who the law-making people are, they would have made that law within the time limit, not exactly if it hadn't been for time. In early February, they started working, so February, March, there was enough time for the law to be made in a regular manner. No, they decided to hide somewhere in restaurants and if the public knew those names, if procedures and practices had been respected, if the public had known those names, if they had known that Matic and Ramjak were on that team, Ramjak would never have been appointed Commissioner. So there was direct damage to the Republic of Croatia. The team simply shared 500 million kuna jobs with each other, not caring for employees, for shareholders, small suppliers in Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78256	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78257	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Living Wall and the Power Club, I'm also asking for a break, but 10 minutes is enough. I would like to talk to my colleague Bačić about Amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, because unfortunately very few HDZ MPs have been at the debate on the Law on Amendments and Mandatory... don't laugh, it's not funny, it's about our citizens who are burdened by Implementing Law and the Law on Mandatory Relations. You weren't at the hearing, and you didn't listen to the debate at all. The amendments proposed are very real, very possible, can be achieved, you did not listen, you do not know what this is about, the government defends that this is not possible because it does not comply with EU directives, which is not true. The EU court ruled that it was in line with the EU directives, so I am looking for a break to talk to your club right now and to try to push these amendments to the second round because this is not the final proposal, there will be no law, let it go to the second round and try to find a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78258	So, Art. 248, during a session of the Assembly, the representative of the club of representatives may, once a day, request a recess for the meeting of the club of representatives. Not for meetings with other representatives' clubs. So, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. I will, of course, give a 10-minute break, but I ask you that when you justify it, stick to the Rules of Procedure because I will refuse to take a second break. You'll get a break. No, no, I won't give it half an hour, but 10 minutes is a break. So what were you looking for? [[I've been looking for half an hour.]] It's 10 minutes break, we'll continue at 12.25. It's 12.15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78259	Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78260	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Living Wall Club, I'm also looking for a ten-minute break. Can I explain? This is when we went to take a break for violence, I would like to point out that a few days ago our representative Branimir Bunjac visited Biševo to warn of a case of illegal construction there. This is one case re-netified by neptimism, networked by local political corruption, which well shows what the situation is in our municipalities, especially municipalities that are a little further from larger cities. As for this visit, the person who has pointed out irregularities has been beaten on the ferry by those who have violated the law, I also call on the competent institutions from this place to sanction any violence and ask for once again to adopt the Law on whistles as much as possible in a stronger and more effective form that those who report irregularities and violations of the law in this case of illegal construction to protect themselves, not to create a system in which the one who reports is the only one who has problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78261	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break from 11 minutes to 1600 hours. Here you go. It's 3:49 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78262	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78263	Thank you, President of the Parliament. And I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I can explain. Here before we go to vote on the confidence of the new economy minister, before we go to vote on the promotion of Mr. Tolusic to the vice president of the Croatian government, he would like to invite the entire public and, in all of us here, the representatives to build more democratic standards, more integrity of all of us, and to do more of this corrupt train that is increasingly speeding up every day, instead of Mr. Plenkovic admitting a mistake, and we are waiting for more epilogous institutions, instead of resigning, that he has gone through Martina Dalic, no, he is becoming more and more arrogant, increasingly conceited with some kind of false certainty driving that train further into himself and will actually take us all to a break, it will cost us all very expensive cost. So let's think a little bit about the state of consciousness in the Parliament, think about the state of consciousness in the country. Should we say where we are at the rank of corrupt countries, where we are at the rank of doing buissines, where we are at the rank of attracting scientists, innovations. Very low. We have not seen real reforms, nor demographics, nor the electoral system, nor the judiciary, nor the economy. What the prime minister calls reforms, these are pathetic scratches on the surface and if he won't listen to the voice of the opposition, or such criticisms of the Living Wall, let him listen to his Europe that tells him the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78264	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78265	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, and if you'll allow me and I'd like to explain for what reason. So, I'm looking for a break, given the fact that the government's policy is beginning to implement and serve political personnel, and what's even worse is being burdened by a series of indictments. Namely Bozidar Kalmeta announces cleanup in the HDZ presidency, Ivo Sanader announces a major coalition with the SDP, while Stipe Mesic attacks President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and, by order of Andrej Plenkovic, even announces the bid in 85 years of life for the country's 3rd term. So the government's intentions can no longer be read from official sources, and therefore we suspect that even when LNG is introduced, there are occult games similar to that of Agrokor or the Borg group... For this reason I ask for a break to think about how to set up, so according to the double policy that is being conducted in Croatia [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I need you now, I need to interrupt you, just a second.]] [[Break president: Comrade Bunjac, just a second.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78266	Therefore, Article 3 of the Recital: ‘The meeting is the time laid down by this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the Assembly.’. What part of the agenda is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78267	It's a point of LNG, since we suspect that the government is being honest with us here. We therefore suspect that politics is being conducted untransparently or that someone else is affecting the work of this Parliament, not the government, or representatives of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78268	Okay. All right, the break will be by 11.40. It's 11:30 p.m. We are now going to vote on the points we discussed, colleague Alexic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78270	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, please take a 10 minute break to agree within the club how we will vote on points 238, since we do not have a uniform position, those laws that need to be voted are only cosmetics. I will compare them with the Zagreb-Savski Marof railway, at which speed is 60 km/h if we change the thresholds on that track there will remain a speed of 60 km/h however that trains can drive 120 km/h. So, such cosmetic changes will not allow people to come to the green branches with their executive procedures, but we will continue to allow them to be carried out in a frenzy way, so we need to consider these laws and we need to see whether we will vote evenly or vote according to our conscience. Because a certain shift is still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78271	Is anyone else picking up? If not, according to the Rules of Procedure, a break of 10 minutes continues at 9.50 hours. It's 9:00. And there's a colleague named Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78273	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I'm looking for a 10-minute break just for the matter of the appointment of the governor of the CNB. Here's a quick explanation. It is known that Croatian monetary policy has begun to question itself within the last few elections, Governor Rohatinski, Governor Vujčić were elected from the same deck of cards, from the same team and here today I need eight members of the CNB council five of them starting with the governor, the new old governor Vujčić, the deputy governor and three other vice governors. Should it be said that precisely because of HNB's poor policy, that CNB is the most lenient institution in the Republic of Croatia that has achieved 2.5 billion kuna loss in 2007, we don't know exactly why this is happening because we don't have an insight inside, the audit there can't get in. The CNB is responsible for all these malfeasances that the banks did, from the Swiss cases, from the wild loans to Raiffeisen cooperatives. Also the other day, I was publicly in court in the case where the Bank of Zagreb gave credit for the construction project and, before the end of the project, withdrew from it and then completed the project manager. It was done massively and the governors watched it all and kept a ladder of banks and kept a bag while they allowed it to be done. All of this with bonds, bonuses and this whole euro introduction plan that Croatia doesn't need, all of it says that we need to get that team out of the CNB's council and not extend their mandate, so I'm asking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78274	He approves of a break. We'll get back to work at 10 o'clock and 25 minutes. It's 10:00, 15 o'clock. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78276	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, I request a 10-minute recess to be consulted. So we had a chance yesterday to see the emails and we had the opportunity to listen to the prime minister who was manifesting himself in relation to the new situation. Sometimes you have situations that are win-win and sometimes you have which are bad-bad. The prime minister tied his fate and the fate of this country to Agrokor, tied it to Mrs Dalic, and it is related to the way in which all the situations and all the affairs related to Agrokor are handled. Not so long ago we were participants when Commissioner Ramljak was the one who came to the premiere and told me I would no longer play with you in this game for the simple reason that he estimated that this game could not end well. The debate on the role and importance of Vice President Dalic was also discussed in this House on several occasions. I think we've come into a situation like in bad American movies, when Vice President Dalic really should have a gun in his hand, a gun that smokes, a man who's dead and who would say, yes, I did die because he did something wrong. Of course I'm talking about a picturesque situation. So e-mails are undeniable to everything that's been going on. It is indisputable and what Vice President Dalic said, which is that she wrote the law and it was in fact undeniable that it was, that it was a project, in which the project was targeted and under the beauty of saving jobs was actually saved something else, it was a personal interest that ended up with one fact. This story of Agrokor about restructuring does not have an R. Equally one who will go and be unscathed will be banks, and ultimately we know who will pay the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78277	And my colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78278	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club so everyone in the opposition can consult on what came out in public and in the media yesterday. We had one failed attempt to defend the prime minister, by transferring responsibility to a political option that just because of insisting on transparency came out of the government. What has confirmed this correspondence is that MOST has been telling the truth for more than a year, that the boys of our Margaret Thatcher have been well exploited, that they have all ended up with millions in their pockets and that this is the only reason Commissioner Ramljak was because he has left the Commissioner's place and that his company has made a very good profit in this crisis in Agrokor. Someone for this reason should be held accountable and this someone is Martina Dalic, who led this whole process, who led this correspondence, which took place outside the institutions and which means that it practically showed that not everyone here was fighting for the interests of the Croatian economy but that at the break of Agrokora they wanted to achieve their private and particular interests. And the prime minister continues to defend Martina Dalic, firmly behind her. I am here asking the question and MPs who supported the recall of Martin Dalic whether they were still standing by her. And I also announce and ask my colleagues in the opposition to support the initiative that we will require of you, Mr President, to put on the agenda within 7 days, to amend the decision to set up a parliamentary investigative committee so that the opposition can discuss this whole affair here in the Croatian Parliament, but also everything that has happened around Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78279	Thank you. So, colleague Bauk, colleague Maras has already been. Then we'll settle the matter under break. ... Well, we can't change the rules of the game now, so it's a 10 minute break, so we'll vote at 10 o'clock. Ten o'clock, go ahead. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's 9:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78280	Dear Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78281	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break for 10 minutes, so if you'll let me explain why. What attitude toward workers shows the attitude of people who have lost their jobs and have sought their claims to the Knin DIV. In 2003 he took over, i.e. TVIK has taken over DIV or Fatty, the people, the workers are looking for their claims and, of course, our judiciary has made a decision that our people, i.e. The workers have no right to claim. That's how 46 people sued for their DIV claims but the judiciary ruled that they had no right to their earned money. However, this is not such a problem, following the report. Of the 46 workers who have sued for their own, prosecutors for their claims, it has been completed 24, as solidarity. These other workers who, they need to sue their colleagues to return claims. However, as far as our judiciary and FINA are concerned, as it does illegally and against people, against workers, three people of 24 have been completed, three workers have not filed a lawsuit or has been prosecuted and carried out by people who have not sued for their DIV claims. More precisely, the DIV is of course because the DIV is a follower of these obligations that should have been paid off by 5 million kunas. This is how the state treats workers, not just workers in this DIV case, but in the case, i.e. The former TVIK and the Dalmatinka workers do not pay their claims where the state is guilty, neither in the case of Dalmatia and other companies in the Split-Dalmatia County and also in the case of Brodosplita. This is injustice and cry out to heaven.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78282	Thank you. You'll probably consult about it within your party, I figured it out because it's the meaning of a break. So, I'll see you at 9.45. It's only a matter of time before we're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78283	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78284	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And I'm looking for a half-hour break to meet club members about destroying maritime good government property, which is the Osjeva peninsula in Makarska, 23 hectares of natural protected beauty that they seek to protect. One... one of the 10 most beautiful beaches, 5000 signatories in Makarska, protest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But yesterday, despite being half-closed to the media session, the city council decided to concreteize itself and to accommodate that one of the most beautiful pearls of this Adriatic in the centre of Makarska. People are in Makarska on their feet. Don't make trouble down there. Prime Minister Plenkovic is familiar with him, here he was directly involved with his uncle who was in the administrative council of Biokova, and is also a park of nature, and he himself went away as a young man down and bathed with his uncle. His uncle is in this case both in the city council and in the spatial planning of the city, this committee. Therefore, I expect all of us here to protect the marine well-being, not to suit individuals. One of the most beautiful beaches in the Croatian Adriatic. This is 50 times worse than what's... worked at the Golden War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Directly, so members of the Andrej Plenkovic family are closer, he is familiar with it. A petition was sent to him, sent to him by associations from a civil association in Makarska. What's this all about? Why is it destroying the common good? One of the most beautiful beaches in the world. Twenty-three thousand acres of forest, pine trees, beautiful. The Macarani won't let you do that. I'm saying this because people are ready to block the road in the season, so you know. He wants to defend their well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78285	Thanks, buddy Bull. And a third application, fellow Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78287	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Like this, I'd just like to warn you. You don't need any breaks. I would warn you of the fact that, I received information that was arrested in Austria by six citizens last week. The oldest in Austria, the oldest is 83 years old. According to me, they're in a prison in Klagenfurt and they need to report to the court on the 25th of this month and they should take some... Our consulate, we don't have complete information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're still there. They're still in custody. We don't know why they're in custody, but we need to check it out and see that, that diplomacy of our consulate that they react in time because what they're going to do there in another 10 days, it's not clear to me, or more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78288	Are you looking for a 10-minute break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78289	You don't need a break. I said what I said. That's it. We have six Croatian prisoners in Austria.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78290	Okay, thank you. Thank you. So, I'm taking a break until 9:46. Ten minutes. Thank you. It's 9:00.36.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78291	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78292	Thank you. Your Honor, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break to consult the representatives' clubs about the vote. We had a debate on the establishment or amendment of the decision to set up the Parliamentary Research Commission on Agrokor. However, part of the ruling coalition said it would not support the decision. I think it's very important in light of these decision-making developments and we see what's going on at the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that we support the Agrokor investigation committee, that the clubs reconsider their decisions once more, in particular I mean the HNS clubs, but also the minority representatives, as well as the most numerous political group in this House, and that all together, if we want the truth, means the full truth about Agrokor, we give support to the Parliamentary Investigative Commission. There is no reason for any fear of colleagues from HDZ, I just think that on the truth and sound foundations we can build both the Croatian economy and Croatian society, and I think that this truth about Agrokor is about how this concert came into existence at all, whether it had the support of politics, and all of us know that it was and how these were happening, I would say the processes of the breakdown of Agrokor itself, the intervention of the state and this Assembly through lex-Agrocor and all of these processes and the hot-mail affair that we have witnessed in recent days, that all this should be examined and I call on all clubs to withdraw, to discuss this and to support all together the establishment of the Assembly's investigative committee on Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78293	A fellow bush like this. The way you're formulating your request for a break, I can't give it to you because you asked for it on behalf of other clubs. I'm interested in whether you're looking on behalf of the MOST or on behalf of other clubs. ... On behalf of the Most. [[You can't hear it.]] I can give you that, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78294	Comrade Bulj, you've raised your hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78295	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club to consult the club, I'd like to request a 10-minute break. Stanka, if you'll let me explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78296	Yes, yes, of course. Do you agree just to ask you right now, that fellow Striker finishes his job since I've already called him and then, no, but you tell me now the reason for the break. You tell me right now, and I'll let him say it. [[/Attack Bull: Uh-huh, and that he later, okay.]] Or we'll take a break first and then we'll do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78297	Okay, okay, thank you very much. We are all familiar with the problem of Dalmatian workers, i.e. worker that the Dalmatian girl was sold after 9 years, that the workers did not exercise their rights, i.e. Your salary. As early as 11 months, I sent a memo to the city council of Sinja also sent its opinion to the government, the finance minister, but the finance minister has not yet responded, that the state gave up its claims to those workers who, after 9 years, need to exercise their right. In the last current hour, I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic, on the basis of the fact that Dalmatinka was sold to the Ministry of Finance and local self-government, that the demands of the workers were 10 million kuna, whether the state would give up its claims and that Prime Minister Plenkovic here agreed that he and the Ministry of Finance and local self-government would solve the problem and that the workers would finally get their claims, but so far there is nothing to do with it, so I would once again publicly invite Prime Minister Plenkovic here, because it was a public parliamentary question where he said that the problem would be solved and expected that now that when the funds were paid, because the time had come for the Dalmatinka to be bought, the bankruptcy procedure was carried out, the money is where, to solve the problem. Once again, I ask Prime Minister Plenkovic to keep his promise, to contact the local authorities who sent the city council his conclusions and the finance minister and to resolve the problem because he has made a public promise here from his chair to my parliamentary issue and has agreed that this is a great injustice and that this problem should be solved. I expect that he will give the solution he has promised for the Dalmatin women's workers regarding their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78298	Thank you. You'll be consulting on Dalmatian workers now, of course, with your club, so I'll see you at 11.50. Here you go. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.40 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78299	You too as much as the coat of arms before. What does that greeting mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78300	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to meet my colleagues at the club, but also the general public through what I'm about to say now with a situation that took place in Tribunj, where an independent commissioner was cut off by brakes on his car. This is another one in a series of attacks against independent mayors and mayors who try to bring order to their local environments and I think it is important to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament to protect people who are in certain positions who are trying to settle their local communities that try to establish order after the rule of these so-called local communities. major political groups in the Croatian Assembly of HDZ and SDP. And this isn't the first time that's happened. We had similar situations, and as far as the Bridge itself was concerned, we had an ashtray attack on the then mayor, today Vice President Boza Petrov, we had an independent head of Omis on Ivan Kovacic. I don't know what's bothering my colleague Mrs. Gristle about what I'm bringing out. I think we should all solidarity with the people who have been attacked. If anyone in this assembly approves of any physical violence, that's what we all have to worry about. And here I am taking this opportunity to warn you of this situation, and I'm going to get to know the detailed club with the whole situation that happened about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78301	Okay. Mr. Sincic also asked for a word. Wait, Mr. Grmoy, since I'm sorry, there's no time, since later you won't be able to speak, and now you're rallying, I think we can save ten minutes. ... But you won't be able to talk later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, I'm giving you a break. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78302	The Most Representatives' Club has now called. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78303	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST 10 minutes to also discuss the position on the appointments of Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, who will be appointed, Mr Tolusic, who was Minister of Agriculture during his 2017 increased the import of only pork by 30%, 131m euros a year importing pork that is fed with GMOs, 76kg increased the import of fruit and vegetables, you did not accept the Law just before which I proposed to protect Croatian farmers, 750 thousand square metres of unprocessed agricultural land. On that point, Minister Tolusic did not make it. Minister Tolusic has proposed the Law here on land for agriculture where foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land from 2020. Now that he has emptied the Croatian village and peasants, the Law on OPGs is also not in favour of Croatian citizens but is against it. We have here the appointment of Minister Horvat, you also remember in that government that he was on the side of consulates and Jose Petrovic in the case of INA. He did not speak to the Committee, he did not respond to the Committee, he did not publicly answer the Committee's question concerning the sale of HEP and INA, he accepted the position as economy minister. And as far as I'm concerned, it's clear how the government left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78304	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Before we begin with the first point, allow me to congratulate you all, as well as all Croatian citizens, but I will do so in an appropriate manner, later and president of the Croatian Parliament, but especially you, to congratulate you on the Day of the Croatian Parliament, which was established on the basis of the established first democratically elected Multi-party Assembly today on 30 May 1990, after the first democratic multilateral elections in the spring of 1990, and I hope it will inspire us to do even better, even more quality work, such as those who have established the first Assembly, imagined that this Assembly is working. Another more promiscuous announcement, please, that from the bench today, you have already received a notice, in the hall you move all materials and personal items, in order for the council to be ready to hold a meeting within the chairmanship of the Croatian Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will be held here on 31 May and 1 June, it will seem to me somewhere 110-120 representatives of various parliaments, distinguished guests and so, we must clean the benches, it is a much more prosalytic notice. Comrade Bull, you wanted something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78305	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to request a break on behalf of the Club Mosto for 10 minutes to consult and send one message to the Minister of Health, the entire public about the situation and the ever worse services in the Split Dalmatian County's health home, i.e. Shutting down services used for years by our citizens of the Split Dalmatian County as the largest county in the Republic of Croatia, which has 5000 000 inhabitants. With this we should call the minister and emergency response, because there is a situation where everything is privatised, and all services are targeted in health homes. So, here, as of Friday, we no longer have a radiologist, except for one doctor, who's retired, but she has extended her work to review radiologists and all the objects used by our citizens. It is a shame that on Friday, a lady left first of all because of the mobbing because those who manage a health home in Split Dalmatian County are more in love with their administration and essentially destroying the home health system as it was, for years, women, an example in Split Dalmatian County, I will say that we have only 5 radiologists in the whole of Split Dalmatian County, so that on the islands, they literally do not have the opportunity to examine it, and in the Ceti area where we have more residents than in Ličko Senj County, women have waited six months for an ultrasound check. And if they were lucky enough to sign up, a lot of people were dying and they weren't writing, now they're going to have to go to the private, and they don't have money, they're the poor neighborhoods, health ministers, turn to what the Constitution guarantees, equal health care for everyone, equality of everyone, and not aimly benefit privates and private interests. Stop the devastation of the health home of Split Dalmatian County. It is a message from this place, not for the first time, this is in the last 2002 since the refuse of the home of health, targeted destruction of the home of health in favour of private services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78306	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break. I'll see you at 9.43. It's 9:00.33.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78307	Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78308	Dear Chairman, on behalf of the Mosta Club, I request a 10-minute recess in order to consult the club on these latest circumstances in the case of Zdravko Mamić, namely our representative Marko Sladoljev, sent an open letter to the Attorney General Drazen Jelenić and asked him if the measures of caution against the defendant were in force, in terms of restrictions on movement, abandonment of residence, and in particular the precautionary measures of the ban, execution, certain specific activities in Article 98. point (b) is replaced by the following: The CAP. So, in time, we warned the attorney general not to happen, what happened yesterday, that the defendant, who is now accused of leaving the country. On this point, no measures have been taken, nor has anything been done, and this is not the first case that the accused and convicted of serious crimes leave Croatia and thus avoid the execution of the verdict. We have Mr. Kutla's case now, we have the Zdravko Mamić case, but we also have a case against which an investigation has been launched, e.g. Mr. Todorovic, who left Croatia, was given the time to leave Croatia and to make everyone happy with his blogs. What is bad and what is bad message is that our citizens are being executed because of several hundred kunas, and that those who have blacked out millions, that they are being allowed to leave Croatia, and we know that these were HDZ donors, that they were animators at HDZ meetings, that they were working on, that applause and applause at the HDZ rally would be as strong as possible, so in that sense I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78309	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmoy, for setting a break by 3:45. It's 3:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78310	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just give me a second, buddy Bull. So today we have a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Terminal Act for Intended Natural Gas, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 333. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've got 380 amendments, so we've got a big and long job ahead of us. But before that, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78311	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult because we've been witnessing that these last days an incredible amount of hypocrisy from the MPs. It's the old story again, one thing we think, another we talk, the third we do. One ruling majority representative interrupted during the free speech of the ruling majority during the debate. But after five minutes, they continued as a real coalition family. Their statements of impatience in the media were transmitted by all the portals, all the media, because it was a mention of the tragically missing and deceased patriot and peacemaker Dr. Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78312	Buddy Bull, just a second. So you can look for a break on the agenda point, I don't know why All right, let's keep going. [[No, you're wrong, you're wrong, no, and I'd like time to stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78313	A representative who spoke the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter is a colleague of Stevo Culej. For some time, a colleague named Culej has been justly asking questions about Dr. Schretter and that's good, but I don't understand why my colleague Culey doesn't want to accept my proposal to declare Dr. Culey's day of remembrance. Schretter. That's the proposal I made on February 5th this year. The proposal this year means, already, that proposal has been for 4 months. We have no opinion or government. So the government doesn't want to give an opinion on dr. Ivan Schreter. Doesn't it hurt that the government government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, your Parliament president, is silent and won't accept that decision. What is the fear of fellow Culei and those who are HDZ? Do they, perhaps, think that Dr. Schreter does not deserve his day of memory in the Croatian people. I'd like my colleague Culej and everyone at HDZ and all of us fellow MPs to tell us where he is and where Dr. The John Schreter I sent four months ago. You still sell your hypocrisy and I'm giving you a chance to all sign that. Ivan Schreter for whom Milorad Pupovac does not want to answer where more of his bones are located to sign the proposal and go into legal procedure because it's dr. [[Intruder President: I thank my colleague Bulj.]] Ivan Schreter deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78314	I agree that Dr. Ivan Schreter deserves it, and we don't have any on it. Well, you can, so you have the right as a club representative along with the other MPs to sign that request and he'll come [[And why don't you give in...]] You don't need the government's opinion, you can sign it and it'll come to the agenda. [[We don't have the government's opinion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78315	No, no, no, no. It's been given in the procedure for four months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78316	No problem at all. But please, colleagues and colleagues, we will now have a 10-minute break because that's what the Rules of Procedure says. However, it states clearly in Article 248: "In the course of the session of the Assembly, the representative of the club of representatives is obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the exhibition for no longer than 2 minutes. So the problem is that today we're discussing amendments to the Law on a natural gas terminal and these consultations, I don't know what these consultations are going to do right now, I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78317	About collecting signatures and hypocrisy because Dr. Ivan Schreter deserves it. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter deserves to be a day, his day, a day of peace. It's a person of There should be an example... [[Invader president: colleague Bulj!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78318	Okay. Now we're gonna take a break from 10 minutes to 9.45 minutes. It's 9:35 p.m. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78320	Dear President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes to consult on the disastrous situation in Croatian agriculture. It started down here where I come from in the Neretva Valley where we have a big problem with the ransom means fruit, vegetables, so now it's been a row of melons, watermelon comes in. Besides, we have that point, which means the Competition Protection Agency. It is the situation that means we have too much imports, that the buyers behave as they should not, that the law on unfair commercial practice, which Minister Tolusic has praised so much that it does not work at all, that it is bypassing and that the situation is catastrophic and bad. We have Minister Tolusic, the PR minister who does nothing, institutions do nothing to protect our farmers. And we all know in general what the situation in the country is that people are leaving Croatia more and more every day. If this destruction of Croatian agriculture continues, then we will have an even bigger wave of emigration and Croatia will be completely evicted. I also call on the Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic to come here to the Croatian Parliament to tell us what the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing on this issue. Because I repeat what is happening at this time in Neretva, where practically threatens the rebellion of farmers, their getting out on the streets and on the roads, this will happen to us in other parts of Croatia. So I call on the Minister here to the Croatian Parliament and I call on the Croatian Government to finally do something for Croatian farmers and not only repeat always the same phrases that they are, that they are working, that they are offering, that they are proposing laws, that they work for the benefit of Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers and nothing is actually happening. This law that we voted for, so here we see nothing done, goes around and the situation is very bad. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78321	You've abused the Rules of Procedure. It is clearly defined that the time-limit laid down by this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Representatives' Club on the item of the session agenda set out. This has nothing to do with this agenda point. ... Stop yelling. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78322	Don't yell at me, don't yell at me. So it's about the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78323	I'm giving you a warning first. You have failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so. Now you're gonna get a break by 9.45, but from now on, when situations like this happen, we're not gonna give a break. It's 9:35 p.m. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78325	Your Honor. Since my colleague is unable to look for a break because he is not at the club, I am on behalf of the Mosta Club looking for a ten-minute break for my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, precisely because of this problem that he was talking about, the emigration of young people and these measures that are presented here, which are the flat-rate measures. In fact, our young people are going beyond Croatia's borders to find jobs in EU countries, as Prime Minister Štromar's reply to what he's offering? Subsidized credit war. Are these measures that plan to keep the youth of our young people in Croatia because if youth goes away, and knowledge goes away, and expertise goes away, education goes away, the future goes away. And your plan is to keep young loans for a shorter period of 15 years, and you're also reducing the rate of co-financing. So you've reduced the co-financing rate and you're selling it to us here as a demographic measure. I am looking for a break so that the Mosta Club, as well as all other representatives and colleagues of Shkybol who requested it, can consult on these proposals that will do nothing to keep young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78326	I grant you a break according to the Ten-minute Rules of Procedure, so we will proceed at 10.41. Just before that, I'd like to check in with a lot of replicas, a lot of people came forward at the same time, so I'll read if I don't read someone to pick up if they're not registered. So Mrak-Taritaš, Prelec, Kovač, Alfirev, Lalovac, BAčić Ante, Grmoja, Čikotić, Batinić, Sladoljev, Lovrinović, Sinčić, Stričak, Mikulić, Makar, anyone else? Lovrinović did call you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78327	I was the first to report to Mr. President. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...I must have answered first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78328	You called in that first group. You must have called before Bačić Ante saw it, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78329	No, no, I'm sorry. As soon as the Secretary of State started, I answered first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78330	Okay, fine. I saw you there. All right. If we don't proceed at 10.41. It's 10:00.31.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78331	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78332	On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a 10 minute break to consult on this Law which is in the second reading, and in fact it is as much, as my colleague Podolnjak said, and it has been amended that this is the first reading and this should, of course, go to the third reading because this is a whole new law. There is no water supply here in municipal activities, as counterpart Podolnjak said. It's pure privatisation. This is similar to what the SDP government has done to HNS in terms of energy, now the HDZ government of HNS is working on water supplies. This is privatisation in this way because this Law lists water supply through municipal activity. Also, in municipal infrastructure, I asked the secretary this question because there is no minister. The distribution sewerage of telecommunications is not listed where cities and local self-government would have huge amounts in millions, billions of kunas, who knows what amounts teleopers would be obliged to pay to local self-government, which they do in their own countries where they come from. In Germany, Sweden. In Croatia, however, they do not. These are huge damage to local self-government, huge damage. This Law is not the law that was in the first reading, it has changed, he here, you want to push the privatisation of water supply, disposal, and of course you're pleasing teleopers to the harm of local self-government. This is about huge amounts. I repeat once again that this law must go into third reading because the fact that the HNS in the SDP government has done with the energy it has done, the enormous damage of the Republic of Croatia to renewable energy sources with wind power plants, and this time this same Ministry that is in HNS's hands, which the HDZ has allowed him and is now silent, will do on the subject means water supplies i.e. The privatisation of our sources, water and public goods, and we must not allow this by fellow MPs, if the SDP has allowed this to the energy, you HNS colleagues, from minorities, do not let Milan Bandic, do not allow them to privatise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78333	Thank you. I'll, of course, give you 10 minutes off. I'd just like to schedule some time so we're all aware, we have about 7 clubs and 10 individual debates for this point, it's somewhere without a single replica of about 3.5 hours. After that, we have the Arms Act in short terms and interpretation, so here we simply know how it is with time and adequately schedule time. Here we go. I'll see you at 3:00. MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78334	Here you go. Excuse me. Yeah, well, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78335	Thank you very much on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, I would like to request a recess to consult on the laws we are now discussing. We will pass this discussion of the 3 laws in the field of medical protection, which practically happened in a short time today without any debate. On the ground, there are a lot of problems that I want to consult at the club, because the debts they have towards hospitals, according to health homes, only in my county, Vukovar, veteran hospital, HZZO owes over 100 million kuna. Debts that are not recovered, affecting the level of health care that we are talking about today, also affects the functioning, insurance, same medical staff, care for all these people, care for the defenders, and everything we want in every part of Croatia. Unfortunately, over 100 million Vukovar hospital, almost 80 million Vinkovačka hospital, over 10 million homes of health, is that the way, is that the care that the Ministry of Health is taking in its policy of care, primarily about such areas. Like my, uh, depressed area, which requires the same treatment, better even treatment, so we can make up for all the shortcomings we have. It's not only due to hospitals, it's due to the local economy, it's also due to local citizens, we all get damages from such amounts. Just imagine, meaning that the annual budget of the Vukovar Hospital is smaller than the HZZO debt to that institution. Imagine one company that would work if it had more debt than the annual turnover. I can't imagine, we can't imagine simply, all of this can be discussed, but what protection, in which there is no means to implement, what is a minimum obligation. And then when we talk about it, that it happens to us, that doctors are leaving us, that the working conditions aren't, what they require, when we have protests of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78336	Thank you very much, time. I approve of you, of course, a 10 minute break, and we'll continue at 12.15. Thank you. It's 12.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78337	Later today, the vote will begin at 10, President-in-Office's notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78338	CONTINUATION OF THE SESSION 8. The meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 13. This Regulation shall enter into Dear MPs, honourable MPs, I wish you all a good morning. We'll vote today, we've got a little more than 20 points, but before that, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78339	Thank you very much, President. I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the MOST Club to consult because we see that in the agenda the appointment of the new governor you're awarding is a key man in the financial stability council, you're rewarding him for his troubles, you're rewarding a man who's the main culprit for the financial and monetary instability of the Republic of Croatia in case 10 billion kunas of bonds without cover used by Agrokor. When asked, Mr. Vujčić commented on those 10 billion kunas he used without cover for Agrokor, he said the bonds live their lives. Ten billion kunas without cover. Whether people live their lives blocked, executed because of him and his monetary policy, today 300,000 blocked, whether they live the life of a pensioner who because of his failure as head of the Council for the Stability of Financial, not giving any reports on us, reports of what the obligation was, his reluctance, negligence. So this is embarrassing that it has compromised the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, 10 billion kunas have used Agrokor without cover and now you reward that man, gentlemen, by ruling. The man who brought the state before the collapse itself. Please withdraw this agenda item i.e. The appointment of Vujčić as governor. A man has brought this country to ruin. Ten billion kunas were used without cover, listen and did not warn what was his duty either to the government or to the Croatian Parliament. I've filed a criminal report there's a year on BOOK and DORH, yet there's no response to that. man is the number one problem, monetary and financial policy in the Republic of Croatia. Agrokor is a fundamental example of how man used 10 billion kunas without cover until the government can give up for workers of its claims to the Dalmatians, constructors and others Please pull this dot, please, Mr. President, the man is responsible for everything. [[Bulj fellow president, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78340	All right, I'll give you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78341	Before continuing from colleague Dragana Jeckov, we will now move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. So it's the first one on behalf of the National Minority Club of fellow Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The national minority club sought a break to express its indignation and its protest against the initiative of a group of citizens who will soon collect signatures for, which aim at reducing the rights of national minorities. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have already spoken against and or who have taken a distance from such an initiative, starting with the prime minister, Mr Plenkovic, to the SDP, IDS, Mr Ivan Bandic and his party and all other parties who have actually expressed concern about taking away the rights of national minorities. Let me remind you, this is about one thing, if you read it well in a very confusing referendum with questions that actually, if you read correctly, increase the threshold and do not reduce it, because no one is questioning 10 electoral units so that in the end, mathematically, it is easy to come up with a reduced number of MPs and with the same number of constituencies, in fact, with three preferential votes at the end, we would come to a larger electoral threshold that would benefit not fewer than larger parties. But let us leave it to them, what is important and what is very clear in both of the two questions being asked is the reduction of the number of national minorities' representatives and the delegation of powers to those MPs who in this way would become what I called already in the early attempts because they were for such a thing, they would become representatives of the garbage rather than representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or I think in the Croatian Parliament, contrary to any logic, contrary to any constitutional logic, against human rights. National minority representatives would be deprived of the right to decide on the government, means trust with the government and the right to decide on the budget. In other words, first and third category representatives would exist in this House. To remind and to say very clearly. I've always been a supporter of rights, equal rights, and even had a much better solution for diaspora advocates. For me, the representatives of the diaspora and that's what I said should have a flexible quota, but the Constitution has changed the way it is. What is the difference between guaranteed diaspora sites and guaranteed national minorities? No, but in one next step, when the composition of this House may change, there will be an idea to reduce the powers and representatives of the diaspora. I'm against each other. I'm saying that this, what's clear in this attempt at a referendum is xenophobicity, what's clear is resistance to all those who don't meet national standards, to all those who are different, so I'm very pleased to hear that all those who are healthy, politically healthy and humanistic think against such a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u78343	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82137	So let's now go to the first item of the agenda, that's: - The Attorney General's report for people with disabilities for 2017. The applicant shall be the Advocate for Persons with Disabilities under Article 17 of the Act. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the government delivered an opinion. Now that we've calmed down, I'm going to ask the D.A. for people with disabilities, the respected Anka Slonjšak, to come to us and give us an additional explanation. I would only ask those who wish to leave the assembly to do so as quickly as possible and as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, for those with disabilities, to give an additional explanation. I thank everyone, and I would now like to ask the attorney general of the disabled person to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82138	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to re-show the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities for 2017. In accordance with the work of the Act on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, the Ombudsman's work on the protection, monitoring and promotion of rights and interests in the Republic of Croatia has been shown in his report. In 2017, we had a total of 1827 citizens who came to us, which is 31% higher than in 2016. As regards the overall conduct, 2913 were based on those complaints, which addressed more than 650 recommendations and warnings to the competent authorities, we proposed over 60 amendments to the provisions and gave 43 opinions on 20 and 31, respectively. We conducted 47 tours of space, participated in various professional gatherings, workshops, exhibited 86 events, then made over 200 statements in the media, organized international and domestic meetings in cooperation and organisations on our own and with other bodies. The status of persons with disabilities shown in this report reflects the knowledge collected by a series of complaints, but also through all these office activities to monitor the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In 2017 we also set up the Expert Council on the principle of "Nothing Us Without Us" in cooperation with 15 experts advocates of disabled persons, advocates in the field of disability. Thanks to the Ministry of State Property, we were able to prepare the area of the district offices, so we plan to open an office this year in Osijek and then in Split in 2019, depending on Istria or in the Primorje-Gorski County. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints was in the field of social care, then employment and work, access to goods and services, pension insurance, health and education. In these areas, I find that the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties are guaranteed by law, international documents, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As a society, we have defined the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the community, but according to the 2017 data, it is evident that people with disabilities are still concerned, not rightholders. It is therefore necessary to take concrete measures to ensure that people with disabilities become concerned about all systems as well as other citizens. As I warned from this place last year, thousands of people with disabilities in Croatia live in institutions today. Their fate depends on the will of their guardians and the welfare center. In institutions, deprived of freedom, they spend most of their lives without the right to privacy and very often without the right to personal choice. The knowledge of the lives of these persons in welfare institutions, which are located there without their consent, has been obtained through years of visits, dozens of institutions and family homes, and where people themselves have complained that very often their requests for exit have been ignored by custodians. In addition, their position is even more powerless by a limited right to move, by the minimum amount of money they have and without sufficient knowledge to seek the protection of their rights on their own and actively. This represents a segregation in accordance with the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination because they are not adequately provided with support, i.e. those services that enable them to return to life in the community or stay for life in the community. According to data from persons outside their own family, it has been visible since 2014 according to this year's trend to reduce the number of accommodations in the homelands of social care, but at the same time there is an increase in the number of accommodations to foster families and family homes. We presented the information here in this full report based on the knowledge of our tours, the space in which they are located, and the publications that we have made together in cooperation with experts called Respecting the rights of persons with disabilities located in foster families and family homes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The independent life of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2015 highlighted in Croatia's conclusions and recommendations that the Committee is concerned that not all institutions, such as smaller private institutions, long-term care departments in psychiatric institutions and foster families for adults, are covered by the deinstitutionalisation plan. Recommendations from the Committee to include them, i.e. all facilities for disabled persons as well as foster families for adults with disabilities. A major obstacle to an independent life of people with disabilities remains the reason for their separation of the institution, which is a dramatic lack of tailored housing and support services. The biggest task is not only in front of the state but also in front of local communities that need to assume the obligation to build an accessible environment and transport for all their citizens without segregation of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. The complaints we receive from different parts of Croatia also referred to the lack of needed services, as very often parents do not know and say we do not know what will happen to our children, people with disabilities say we do not know what we will do after parents or our loved ones can no longer help us. One of the most significant forms of support independent of life is today a personal assistant service, i.e. different forms of assistance arranged through the project. Not even years of warnings, as well as recommendations, have resulted in the adoption of a law that would regulate, inter alia, assistance services, or all forms and types of assistance they would provide, primarily from the type and severity of disability and the needs of an individual person. The parents of children with developmental risks and difficulties still cannot rely on systematic early intervention and support in terms of diagnostics, appropriate services and logos, rehabilitators and other experts. They testify in waiting lists for individual procedures, the early intervention service provider is still missing in certain areas, are not timely informed by either the pediatrician or the social care system. As in other systems, the problem is to develop and expand networks of services, primarily in this case extra-institutional services for children with developmental difficulties. Only 518 children are entitled to early intervention in the welfare system. This high House in 2015 presented a special report on children and adults with autistic spectrum disorder. From 2015 to today, we are aware that it is a matter of systematic solutions, but we are still only talking about a normative framework without systematic implementation. When we talk about education and education, we continue to accept complaints that indicate the inaccessibility of preschool education for children with developmental difficulties and continue to be a common practice of kindergartens to make child inclusion conditional on previous insurance of assistants. The focus on supporting assistants is also noticeable in primary education, although the education system should be strengthened as well as the capacities for all other forms of professional support. Teaming schools to experts in rehabilitation profiles, education of teachers themselves, and the creation of support centres to support the regular education system. In the report, we also described the difficulties students have regarding the system of secondary education. Especially from the problem in the process of professional orientation to the application of the support measure in regular secondary schools, as well as the difficulties of students in the welfare system. When we talk about skill, despite the efforts of experts in the sector of the single body of art, to raise expertise, there remains a burning problem of the lack of specialists, witches and the inaccessibility of inadequate spatial conditions in which skills are carried out, which is why there are very often great delays, and thus delays in the exercise of rights. Yesterday we testified, i.e. the day before yesterday that an art institute was opened in Split and we hope to continue to continue the continuous opening for the reasons why we are still talking about 17 district offices, only 30% of them are accessible to people with disabilities. When we talk about employment and work, complaints were still very similar to in 2016, and they concerned the implementation of employment procedures, i.e. advertising competitions, the short right of advantage, the need for reasonable adjustment, or for its short-term employment, but also at the workplace. I must say that our office, as well as persons with disabilities, civil society, have put a series of proposals into effect recently and we expect that the following rules and all other sublegal acts that should be adopted as soon as possible, so that really employment and work in all possible ways in the normative at least framework will be removed, and then all these apply. When we talk about data related to pension insurance, then we do have a real concern that 70 thousand 107 people with disabilities work outside of work relations, who are granted the right to a disability pension due to established professional inability to work, i.e. partial loss of work ability. It concerns the fact that their average pension is 1795 kuna 73 June. Only 5314 people with professional incompetence remained in the world of work. The area of health care. Still the largest number of recommendations and warnings went this way. We also addressed them to the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and they concerned the availability of health services, the right to treatment, physical therapy, health care in the house, rehabilitation, orthopaedic and other aids, and medicines. A large number of people with various consequences of illness and injury, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's, dementia, rare illness, spinal and other injuries remain inaccessible medicines that are of primary importance for maintaining their health and quality of life. The reasons are multiple, of which medicines are not on the list, so often some have to pay, some are too expensive, and some are simply not available to them at all. When we talk about accessibility, it is still one of the biggest areas in which people are discriminated against with physical disability, but also other damages. In order to justify non-adjustment, responsibility is often transferred and the most common answer is that it is a protected cultural heritage or that there are not enough financial resources. The Republic of Croatia is a country that is the top destination in tourism. When we talk about it, we conducted a survey of tourist communities, cities and indeed if we want to be a top destination, then we must make a tourist offer completely. Which means adjusting both road and rail, air, maritime transport, providing accommodation regardless of whether we are talking about a hotel, apartment, OPG, without talking about other content such as sports, etc., which are actually not a sufficiently accessible person with disabilities and reduced mobility at the moment. In 2017, we were all familiar with a beautiful exhibition that started with “Mind from the future” Nikola Tesla, which was in Meštrović’s Pavilion. Currently, this pavilion, or its surroundings, is being renovated. However, there is still a concern about the lack of awareness of the importance of the accessibility of people with disabilities. We simply cannot believe that even after all these years of warning, repeating the commitment of society to respect the rights happens that despite recommendations and persons with disabilities and our Office does not foresee the cooperation of all key institutions in order to make this monument of culture accessible. Although most of the 511 thousand 850 people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities did not address the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and such serious violations of rights are already seen in this issue, we can only ask ourselves how much harder it would be if more people with disabilities were familiar with their rights and had the necessary support to complain about their injury. Those who are the most endangered are not even in a position to address us. At the end of this part, I would point out that this report is a picture of the situation for 2017 from the perspective of parents of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities and their families. All legislative changes, political decisions and public policies in the past year should only be seen in the context of their impact on everyday life and the functioning of people with disabilities. Therefore, by estimating the government's efforts in the activities carried out in 2017, we expect that recommendations and warnings, as well as amendments to the rules, will be adopted, if they have not already been adopted at the beginning of this year because there really is no room for justification that there has been no time, that there has been a lot of time done, and that a problem has been proposed or that there are plans, meetings, agreements, because in fact any transfer of the problem in the coming year is often irrevocably lost time for certain categories of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82139	Thank you, Madam Attorney General. You have 8 replicas, but before that, will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. In fact, replicas come before. The first line has Mr. Ante Babic. ... Replications first. [[You can't hear it.]] First the replicas, then the committees. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82140	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, you said among other things, that persons with disabilities are actually the subject of concern, not the subject of law. Doesn't it get into your eyes the fact and through the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that there are 508 thousand 617 people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia? It's about 12% of the population. In the surrounding countries, the number is between 5 and 6 and 7 and 8%, respectively. So 12% of the population. I'm saying this for the next reason, because you're talking about an inclusive aid and care supplement for people with disabilities in order to actually help those who need it really came into the right hands. I think that this initiative should come from you, from the D.A. through the Resolute Ministry, and that this situation with this number of people with disabilities needs to be resolved in order to really help those who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82141	Thank you, too. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82142	I do. Here, I thank the representative for his comment and opinion, and I would like to say that this particular sentence is in this sense that the largest number of complaints from persons with disabilities and parents of children with disabilities was in the field of social care. And in that part, it is actually an indication that society as such still involves too many persons with, excludes, from the employment system, means insurance in different other systems rather than to be directed towards social care. I think that all of us as a society need to take advantage of these opportunities and potentials so that actually social care has as little to do with people with disabilities as possible. And in fact, the funds that are being received, or referred to persons with disabilities, are indeed to cover the cost of disability. And as long as we don't have one such form of a supplement or compensation that isn't social, but exclusively based on the individual needs of the person himself and specifically related to disability, so unfortunately we still have a social welfare situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82143	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honorary Attorney, thank you again for your report, we give great support to your work, we think that each of your reports contributes to better solving the problems in the following year. However, I am reporting for a replica of the foundation and contact with the parents and the basis of what you said about where there is simply no movement. This is a problem of systematic early intervention and help logos, rehabilitators and other experts where we have seen from your report that only 518 children are involved in the early intervention system and that year after year despite your warnings there is no shift. You also list the problem of autism where we have a national framework for screening and diagnostics but unfortunately is not implemented in the health care system. So please explain to us where the problem is and why is there simply no movement here even though you point to it year after year?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82145	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82146	Well, here's the quick answer. During 2017, we, in cooperation with UNICEF and the Ombudsman for children as well as with the support of three ministries that are key to the field of early intervention services, have made some shifts in terms of agreement, I do not know the different developments in order to also take action from the national strategy drawn for 2017 and for this period to be implemented. However, all these arrangements, all these preparations take too long. What I've pointed out, children can't wait, children are growing up, they need rehabilitation, rehabilitation right now, now, not during another period. I think that the system in this part is too much and that, in fact, it's all too slow, too slow. There is a shift, we know that some specific activities are expected in 2018. But these are all arrangements, meetings, plans. And what I pointed out in the report and what is clearly visible is still in the normative part. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82147	Thank you very much, Madam Attorney General. The third line has Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82148	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I have one, actually a replica, one case of a mother who has a son who has autism and pointed out to me a problem that is so few people know and it's child transport with autism, i.e. children who are no longer in the education system. The boy is 19 years old, he should go to the rehab center, she doesn't have a car, and those kids can't take public transportation because of the specific illness they have. She was simply convicted, a good man called, a taxi driver who drives her free of charge every day. And she told me, and I also spoke to the city of Zagreb, and they also said they were powerless in that system. It's one problem that people don't know much about but I think it's big.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82149	Thank you very much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82150	All right, all right. Well, here's the short way of saying, the problem with transportation is the problem in all the environments. And if the problem is in the city of Zagreb, then we can think about what the problem is in other parts. I mean, infrastructure is extremely important, and if there's no connection, in fact, to a person with disabilities, and children can't carry out any of the activities that actually further isolates them and shuts them out of society. I think it is essential that local environments ask how they can secure transport because it is not in the interest to take over all associations and to go through associations, it is simply necessary to provide public transport that will be adapted. I think that there is also a great deal of need to see the possibility of using and funding from European funds, wherever it is possible to use and, of course, see together with the country in which to ensure that road transport, but as I said other modes of transport are adapted. We still have a lot to do with associations and customized vans and it is actually necessary to ensure public transportation for those with such needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82151	Thank you very much. I take advantage of the opportunity to welcome students from the ERASMUS International Exchange Programme who are at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, we welcome them with applause. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] Now it's Mr. Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82152	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I remember from your presentation some time ago here, one of the main problems was the lack of research, or a lack of statistical data, which is why people with disabilities are concerned. So I'd like to ask you, from then on, that is, how much progress has been made, are they still at the benefit of certain associations of citizens, or have some state institutions started dealing with these statistics, or are they already running statistics as they have received information? I also remember the absurdity that these institutions were supposed to provide you with information and eventually they asked you for information about people with disabilities. So please explain, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82153	Here you go, Madam Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82154	Well, that was about the meaning recently because we defended the report in the 10th month of 2017 for 2016, so we'd like to say that from now on what's changed is that we've proposed amendments to the law that have touched statistical data and we believe that it will be adopted, we still don't have a final opinion on these regulations but as far as this absurdity is concerned, it's still standing just here, at the beginning of this year we didn't look for data but we had meetings that we actually exposed to problems generally related to statistical data. So I can't tell you that there are any specific changes at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82155	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Maria Alfirev's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82156	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. So, you mentioned in your report which is really quality and broad, it really covered all the areas, you mentioned that in fact one of the key areas that you have worked on is independent life and life in the community, including in the community with a special emphasis on deinstitutionalisation processes, and also the dissemination of services in the community in that sense we must therefore, in one part it is very clear that it is also necessary to fund clearly the service providers that must be evenly and in this sense last year the public consultation of the rules on standards for providing social services was carried out. Until today, we don't have that report, do you have any knowledge of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82157	Answer, please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82158	Well, at this point, I can only say that we've been making recommendations and we believe and we hope that they will be adopted because I think it's in the interest of everyone that prices are even and right for the reason that we have to do everything to be, as you would say, those people who live in their own home to know exactly how much they cost services in the community and how much an institutionalisation costs. I think it's important for all of us that people stay in their homes, get the support they need in their own home, and that it be really appropriate for that person to be paid for. And that we don't actually have situations to put people in institutions without charging institutions with amounts that are absolutely different, regardless of whether it's a private or public sector. So I think that the ministry in this work has considered a lot of proposals and I think that maybe they can respond because they are here, but in any case, it is in our best interest to achieve equality and to actually see that persons with disabilities are in their homes and with the support of their communities and not in the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82159	Thank you. Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Your Honorary Attorney, your report is a fundamental document on the state and care of persons with disabilities in Croatia. And this year it's very detailed, and we expect some shifts to be because you're really going into the very scale of things. What you would like to point out in particular, you have mentioned again the issue of the availability of medicines, and you have also noticed as well as we within the board, I have launched a story as president with the availability of medicines, especially for multiple sclerosis patients, you have also started with the initiative because we know that there are particularly discriminatory criteria for patients present, there are 6000 in Croatia not to get the medicine if they are older and are diagnosed over 55 years and these are still working persons as well as only after a year of diagnosis that person can get the medicine, thus bringing them into an even greater state and worsening the degree of disability and ultimately costing much more. And then it's said, yes, HZO says I can hospitals but on the burden of my calculations, it's taken away from other patients. Thank you for paying attention to that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82161	Thank you, thank you. Answer, please. Okay, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82162	Thank you very much. Madam Attorney, here I accept your report absolutely and the number of people who appear to you are not talking specifically about whether in Croatia the situation is improving or worsening rather than whether they recognize your work. And it is good for people to address, to see in you someone who can help them in their daily lives, and what I am dissatisfied with, for example, that we should imagine ourselves as parliamentary representatives, that after Mrs Vesna Škulić in her term provided certain accompanying contents in the Assembly, that people with disabilities have access as well as everyone else. We still don't have that in the assembly itself. So colleague Ljubica Lukačić continues to speak on behalf of the club from the bench instead of having an equal position as all other MPs to enable and adapt the speaker of the club and to work on it. So I'm also appealing to you, Mr. Vice President, that at one of the Bureau meetings you point out, I don't think that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82163	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Okay. Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney, it has been mentioned several times, is pleased that my colleague Jovanovic said this, I think it is related to persons with disabilities, people suffering from one of the disorders for the autistic spectrum at this time are the most vulnerable in the Republic and as mentioned, therefore, related to the national framework, related to working groups, further complicates the situation that there are three ministries, all of this is too slow to turn around and this pilot project that is with UNICEF, therefore from my active political engagement, 2013 and in the City Assembly of Zagreb and now in the Croatian Assembly, I think it is necessary to constantly repeat and hurry up all the responsible to yet run some things because it is going very, very slow and intervention, so we are not saying that there is no modern diagnostic centre for the autistic spectrum disorder in Zagreb city at all this time, then it is too much to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82165	Thank you, Mr. Cell. Would you like to answer? Thank you. I would now like to ask the representatives of the committee who want to take the floor, Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives of the ministry and our dear lawyer with her deputies. So, the Committee on Health and Social Policy at its 44th session, we are quite worthy of having a lot of meetings, discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2017, which was delivered by the Ombudsman to the President of the Croatian Parliament for persons with disabilities since 27 March 2018, so the Committee discussed as the home working body, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and held the written opinion of the Government of Croatia on that act. The opening argument was submitted by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, stating the data for 2017 in which the Ombudsman addressed 1827 citizens, which is for 433 complaints or 31% higher than in 2016. As stated above, by 266 requests from previous periods, a total of 2093 requests from citizens in the protection and affirmation of the rights of persons with disabilities and the prevention of all forms of discrimination were handled by the Advocate's Office in 2913 cases following those complaints, sent more than 650 recommendations and warnings to the competent authorities, proposed more than 60 amendments to the provisions and gave 43 opinions in the 31st regulation. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints referred to the area of social protection, then to the field of labour and employment, access to the goods and services of pension insurance, health and education. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints referred to more than 300 complaints in the field of social care, which suggests that people with disabilities remain concerned, and not rightholders pointed out the Ombudsman. When it comes to the right person with disabilities to exercise the right to an independent life and life in the community, to choose the place of residence, where and with whom the Ombudsman will live, he believes that we have not ensured the enjoyment of this right. And therefore more than 10,000 people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia still live in institutions. In this connection, and in relation to the process of transformation and deinstitutionalisation and the development of services in the community, the lack of use of eu funds has also been highlighted. In the system of education and education, the Ombudsman pointed out that she still accepts complaints that point to the inaccessibility of pre-school education for children with developmental difficulties and frequent childcare practices that include the child is conditional upon the prior provision of assistants, which is not always possible. Only 518 children are entitled to early intervention in the social care system, and many parents of children with developmental risks and developmental difficulties continue to be unable to rely on systematic early intervention and support in terms of diagnostics, adequate logod services, rehabilitators and other experts. In the field of healthcare, the largest number of complaints received concerned the availability of health services, the exercise of treatment rights, physical therapy and health care in the house, hospital rehabilitation, orthopaedic and other aids and of course medicines. The research carried out on problems in this area warned of the need for urgent reorganisation since services and the exercise of these rights must be waited too long. Although the representative of the Ministry of Demography, the family, youth and social policy explained the government's opinion in relation to the report warned of a number of wrong allegations made in the report and pointed out a principled remark on the report submitted, while noting that it was not complete because, as she pointed out in the report, only irregularities and negative actions identified during 2017 and not positive developments, the members of the committee unanimously commended and supported the lawyer's report in question. As the debate highlighted the fundamental role of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities is to protect, monitor and promote the interests and rights of persons with disabilities and to point out certain shortcomings and irregularities, all for the purpose of promoting the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. After the debate was held, as I said, all members of the board unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82167	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Madam Attorney-General with an associate. At the 32nd session held on 9 May 2018, the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2017 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities Act of 27 March 2018. The Committee discussed that report in accordance with Article 179. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee also held a written report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, informed the Committee about the conduct of the offices in 2017 and pointed out that 1827 citizens addressed the office and 31% more than in the previous 2016. Since the Committee particularly covers the area of employment and pension system, we have seen that, as in previous years, there have also been objections to the field of work and employment and accessibility, or more than 300 people with disabilities, have addressed and pointed to the problems of the social care area, which points to the extremely difficult material situation of persons with disabilities. In the area of employment and labour, the complaint mainly referred to the right of advantage in employment under equal conditions, the short-term adjustment at the workplace, and the non-compliance with the obligation of quota employment or the fulfilment of the obligation by paying cash compensation instead of employment. As in earlier years, there is a growing number of complaints in the area of pension insurance that most often relate to non-recognition of pension insurance rights and the long-term resolution process. The number of items received is over 85,000, as many as 90,000 of these cases have been solved. At the end of 2017, the total number of pending cases was around 32,495. The long-term artificial process also affects the prolonging and exercise of individual rights from different systems, and most often in the procedures for the exercise of pension system rights and social care. According to the Office of Arts, professional rehabilitation of the employment of people with disabilities, the art procedures last the longest in the towns of Varazdin and Osijek, due to the lack of a doctor specialist of witches. The written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was explained by the representative of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, and in the debate the members of the Committee supported the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2017 and proposed to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: To accept the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, unanimously with 8 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82169	Thank you. If the Prime Minister wishes to add an additional explanation, Madam Secretary of State Maria Pleikosa is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82170	Honorable Vice President, respected MPs and MPs, esteemed attorneys with associates. The proposal for an opinion on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2017 was drawn up in cooperation with ministries, the Central State Sport Office, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The proposal for an opinion sets out comments and proposals in relation to certain chapters of the report. It is clear from the opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, among other things, makes a principle note of a report submitted by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2017, deeming it inconclusive for reasons that there is no parallel to the previous period, nor is there any information on the results achieved on the previous recommendations of the Ombudsman, even though the Ministry of Attorneys provided reports from its jurisdiction. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken the number of 1827 dissatisfaction citizens very seriously and considers each of these remarks and recommendations by the Ombudsman extremely valuable and important. The government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to take steps with a view to acting in a hasty manner so that people with disabilities truly have equal opportunities with other citizens and are maximumly involved in the lives of the community. In line with the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of the Ombudsman's report, taking into account that all objections and recommendations are called for to address the problems faced by persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia by all stakeholders in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82171	Thank you, too. You have six replicas. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82172	Thank you very much, fellow Secretary of State. Here I must note and consider a quite inappropriate response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Attorney General's report, which makes me feel like the Government of Justice and very rarely sees the report on page 21, meaning the obviouss to the report pardon, to page 21. It is not you, Madam Secretary of State, nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is called to this justice, but to remove these problems which persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia have and I am very sorry when I see such a personal approach by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as if all the lawyers in Croatia should only praise the Government and then the report would be accepted without any suggestions, but when certain problems are observed then written 21 pages. That's what I wanted to say and I hope that's not how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82173	Thank you. It's a very old problem. It's a very old problem. It's always been a problem. Here, you want to answer? No, good. The second line has Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82174	Well, I'd be as attached as my colleague Maras, and the government is here to take a good look at this report every year and act accordingly. So I already point out twice what the Ombudsman notices that we have five hundred homes in which people, most of the elderly, persons with mental difficulties, people with special needs, homes where they live, where they have no ability to achieve some kind of human and personal contact and with their formerly known persons, or have available communication with the outside world in which they do not have the ability to satisfy the basic medical needs, and we as a state, or you as a ministry, have done nothing to control these homes. There's a very bad situation, I don't say they're all, but the vast majority of those in which basic human rights are violated We've pointed out that the government hasn't done anything about it yet. [[Intruder Furio Radin: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82175	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82176	Thank you. I would answer if I didn't agree with you for the reason that over the past period 647 persons with disabilities have been deinstitutionalized, currently organized housing services are used by just over 1,000 people with disabilities. As for accommodation in welfare institutions, we are aware of some shortcomings, but we are working on them, to correct them. The number of inspectors has increased by 50%, since I was alone at the head of such an institution, they cannot agree that people live in them. So, not in all the facilities. It's about, in some institutions, if there are human rights violations, then we're really responding right now. So we work regularly, we work to improve, and as for these remarks that persons are forced into social care institutions, they also disagree because...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82177	Thank you, Mrs.pleikosa. You'll get more chances, there's more replicas. Here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. ... No, no, no. [[You can't hear it.]] Someone left it on. It's okay now. It's okay now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82178	Yeah, everything's fine. Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, what is the meaning of the Attorney General's report? The point of the lawyer's report is to point out all the shortcomings, to point to possible improvements, and that's why every year they go from the last year to the last year and actually be the basis for them to be better, to change laws, to create conditions and criteria, so it's a little unusual, I understand on a personal level. You're from the system, and then maybe you're personally experiencing it, and that's how you react. But absolutely it is a very good word with a very good report, a very correct report, a report where the Ombudsman for people with disabilities points to all the problems they are, and the government should then, in co-operation, show what the shift is made and in that sense, there should be an indication of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82179	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82180	Thank you very much. Well, here, I must stress an extremely good cooperation with the Attorney General. Of course, on nearly 400 pages of her report that not only are the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, but other ministries have had certain objections and no one should be angry about it, but certainly those things that have been done should be highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82181	And we must commend the Advocate General because it is the first Attorney General's or the Advocate General's report for 2017. That's the same thing that matters. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82182	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, what I'm reading here is just a report, can get the impression that these are actually instructions that state bodies should take to remove a number of irregularities, actually those disadvantages that make life more difficult for people with disabilities. What actually fascinates me, that the figures speak the other way around, especially in the case of quota employment where we see that state institutions where there is no additional need to engage some of the funds do not meet their obligations. In fact, that part of me was somehow and I can tell the most disputed that when I look at the state, geodetic, hydrometeorological, intellectual property of the institution, measurement and many others. Actually, they don't meet. How can we expect the real private sector to meet the criteria if we do nothing ourselves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82183	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Strike's last, last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82184	Thank you, Vice President. So here, a year ago, the SDP government then abolished all those private commissions that were at the Social Care Centre, so the pension has its own, so health insurance has put everything together at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. However, they did not provide space and working conditions. And now we have a case in Varazdin that evaluations and artisans wait one year at a time. And now imagine, a person who is unhappy there needs one confirmation, an skill to exercise his right to whether out of retirement, whether they are social or health insurance, and to this confirmation of the commission's solution, or the Bureau, waits for a year. Well, here's the thing, I'm appealing this time if it's possible to secure more doctors and, of course, normal working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82185	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first to report for debate on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists... Ah, excuse me. [[You can't hear it.]] Excuse me, my bad. Mrs. Alfirev, another replica, too. I'm sorry, it wasn't intentional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82186	It's all right. The Honorable Vice-President, and here, because I received a partial answer because it is probably not from the attorney-general's knowledge, so I referred them to you as well as to this issue regarding the adoption of the Rules on Social Services Standards, and it is also considered and as the public consultation itself has caused a lot of interest and is aimed at once at equating the financing of all social service providers, and it is already over, almost a year will pass, at the 8th month of last year there should be a report. Where is it, what did you do about it and where are we now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82187	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pleikosa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82188	Here, I can only say that the rule on the methodology of pricing and services in the final. It's working, it's just finishing up so that in the second half of the year we expect it to start to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82189	Thank you very much. And now I can really open up the debate. Mr Tomislav Panenic in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82190	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The esteemed attorney, the secretary of state with his associates. I think you set one quality standard for how the report should look, which is all the information, which is the information that should be presented in this home, also to the Croatian public and how to approach problem removal. So it's not only that you've identified certain problems but you've been actively making recommendations, and that's what we must surely appreciate and we will appreciate and with support in this home on this report. What I would point out from this report primarily concerns the problems of children we see is a good part of the report itself, and especially with regard to early intervention, rehabilitation and specific children with problems in autistic spectrum. What is evident is that there is still a lack of specialized institutions. We know that for such children, the existence of such centres and early interventions is essentially the best model of how to deal with a number of problems that are becoming increasingly difficult to approach later on. And that's where you showed concern, too, and actually in some way the incentive to make positive shifts that are not visible so far. Since they come from the Slavonia area, I know exactly and there, and I hope that this centre that should be in Osijek is that it will, as such, truly live, provide full funds not only for its construction but also for its equipment and further functioning. In children who suffer from autism, one of the problems that often arises on the ground is the uniformity of the criteria of determining their disability. And they range from two, three or four degrees, but in the end, in children with the same problems, they create differences in the exercise of rights. What is pointed out further refers to the Preschool Law which is clearly indicated, here are certain experiences from the field, that it as such is adapted to some other time, some other criteria but not only not responding to disabled children but also not responding to children who can normally attend those institutions with a pedagogical standard primarily shows their problems precisely to the children you care about. It is often the case that such children are discriminated against and it is often the case that just as such the law brings the directors of these institutions into a problem where they cannot simply transpose what the legislator requires in regular daily practice. What should be pointed out is that one of the frequent obstacles that is put not only in preschool education but also later applies to assistants. Assistants in the teaching that are very important to help socialize children during their stay in kindergartens and schools. A key problem here which is shown and what we get as information concerns the current project financing of such persons who need to provide assistance where there is no systematic approach and permanent support to all those who have these needs. The regulations on teaching assistants have passed a public debate but we see that it has been standing for a long time, that it has not been passed, and that is certainly something we should warn about. What I would further point out about the assistants is their professional training especially in preschool education where it is unequal who can be an assistant. There are no clear criteria whether these are high-skilled persons, more or more medium-sized facilities, which should, with further training, behave in this role and then have different interpretations in local self-government units. So, for example. We have an example in Osijek where the problem is to find an assistant for preschool education, for kindergarten because it must be high professional training while e.g. The same assistant at school he can only be medium professional training. Thus, these are certain differences that can certainly be removed without any significant interventions but would make significant assistance to those who need to have just such a person in their aid. But not only would it be a question of preschool education, primary school education, but there is a difference in the work that applies after schooling is completed when they leave the system which is not resolved at the state level. We have positive examples, for example. It is here in the city of Zagreb where, for example, There is no such content in the rest of the country. The code, I've also pointed out, in my replica, in people with disabilities, they always face a number of obstacles and violations of the right to employment primarily in the right of the championship. What is visible, and I noted that we still have a number of taxpayers who still decide to pay compensation and do not go in the direction of hiring disabled persons within the framework of the quota, employment. And what worries me the most is that the public sector that should be an example, a model and an incentive element where work processes are certainly not at a level that would endanger a profit level or some other form that could be mentioned in the private sector as an obstacle, that means that the public sector has not met its function because here is the data that e.g. of 2618 taxpayers even 1606 pays compensation. So 2/3 pays the fee, that only 1/3 fulfills the work or fully its obligations. And most of all, I'm concerned about their answers to your questions, so calling for a decision to ban new employment, about the specificities of jobs, about the fact that a small person with disabilities appears in competitions, I think that, in fact, it's one communication that shouldn't even appear and that only their attitude or effort can be the one to change all of this that you've made known to them and as your remark. Here you might single out that, here's the State Geodetic Authority that has 1100 employees has an obligation to employ 33 people equally quotaically. They're hiring 20. There are some who actually employ even less than that by looking at the percentage, but I think that should do so from a level of government significant pressure and I thank you for your efforts to warn you about it. I would single out another item, which is to ensure access to institutions, especially those institutions where these individuals are seeking the most help. You have singled out, it is the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Pension Insurance, Social Care Centres and their customization that people in need of help, disabled persons, people with disabilities can access the services they require. Just looking at the answers, I'm going to single out, I don't know the Pension Insurance Office, 114 responds that none of them were positive that they said they were affordable, even 60 are unaccessible, and in part just 54. so I have to find out that there's simply not a number of conditions that should be provided, and it's good that certain and ministries have given their observations and what they said, they want something positive to be found, so here I am, just on this example that I last said, I'd like to see what the ministry would say if, for instance. No pension insurance agency is fully available for disabled persons, which would be a positive shift that they would say to answer this question? Therefore, the report itself must contain the problems facing it, not only in this case persons with disabilities, but in any other user, Croatian citizens and warn them, and institutions that are referred to your analysis and other analyses, as well as recommendations, should look at the possibilities of solving and, of course, solve those things that are possible without significant financial expenditure in a hurry, and access to planning of all other investments, we can primarily say investment or amending laws that can facilitate life, not only for persons with disabilities, but also for all Croatian citizens. Once again, I thank you for your efforts, your team, and all of what we could communicate today to try all together to promote the improvement of the condition of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82191	And to you, Mr. Panenich. The second is the lady, the second club will present, that's the HDZ Representatives' Club, excuse me, the proposing asks for a word, so we'll give her a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82192	I'd like to thank Mr Panenic for a moment. But I'd just like to say about the services of early childhood intervention. During 2017, as I mentioned, at the end of December, we made a national symposium called Day for Tomorrow through cross-sectoral cooperation to integrated services in early childhood intervention and in accordance with the conclusions we referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a request for appointment of the Management Board. We had a meeting today on 10.05. We had a meeting of three ministries in the government and a parliamentary representative was, etc. and related to the question of autism and related to early intervention services, then he took over the role of the holder of the Ministry of Health and I urge that this opportunity be signed as soon as possible by the board of directors, because indeed time is going very quickly, we are already practically half a year, and we are not yet going into concrete realisation, while at the same time applying and measures that are among other things and part of the national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82193	Thank you very much. And now we're going to go to another club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Ljubica Lukačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honoring Madam Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed attorney, colleague and colleague. The Attorney General's report for people with disabilities is very, very extensive this year. That's good, but I'm not sure that all the MPs have read it, and it's probably what the MPs have read briefly, and if I were to recapture what I've heard in this debate so far, then I'd say it's all bad. Comments, i.e. the Government’s opinion on page 21, you have not done anything so far, etc. The conclusion would be nothing. But I have to say, even though I'm sure some won't be happy that this government has done more than the last in a year and a half, so I'm free to say three governments. I say that as a person with disabilities first and then as a representative in this House. Because of some of the shifts that this government has made and we MPs here in the Parliament, I mean the regulations that we've brought, I feel both my colleagues and my colleagues and my skin. When we talk about the deinstitutionalisation that everyone in Croatia is talking about today, not just us here today, I think that we started to deinstitutionalise very, very strongly, and that we were not prepared for it at that time. In her report, the prosecutor is talking about 10,000 people who are still in institutions, probably so, is, I have no reason to doubt the number that the lawyer presented in her report, however, the question of how many of those 10,000 people can get out of the institution at all? How many of them will be able to live alone, we don't know that here today, and we're talking about 10,000 in institutions. Some of them will never be able to live outside the institution, and that is what colleagues and colleagues must be clear to us all. Some won't be able to simply, even if I don't know what kind of support, they won't be able to live outside the institution. There must be problems in institutions and control is necessary, but not everything in institutions is so black. If I could just read this and listen to what others are saying, I'd conclude that one common disaster. And yet people finish schools in those institutions and I'm just one of them who graduated from high school in the institution and nothing happened to me. And I have to tell you, many people with disabilities would never have finished primary education, let alone high school. I'm saying this to bring you closer, I'm not going to tell you the real truth because I don't want to say that this isn't true what the D.A. wrote, it is, but it's not all so black. The institutions will always survive, they will have to. Some Scandinavian countries that are far more advanced than us and have gone into deinstitutionalization long before us, are now returning to institutionalization. Deinstitutionalisation is very expensive, it must exist, but it must be implemented systematically. The Republic of Croatia has gone into this, and I am warmly hoping that and I believe that this government will really do as much as possible, first of all, that people with disabilities remain in their families. It's the right deinstitutionalization to allow them to live in their own home. After that organized housing is something that is deinstitutionalization, but that would also be discussed, if you put two or three people in one apartment in a building where they live together as a family, I have knowledge that things happen in such buildings. So everything is subject to control, each process of deinstitutionalisation is subject to control. I'm happy this ministry takes care of that. There is a new Household Act in the making, and as much as we may have the resistance to whether foster care is institutionalisation or deinstitutionalisation, I would say, however, that it is a kind of deinstitutionalisation because in foster families I personally know several people with disabilities who are located there and who live well. And most importantly, they're involved in the community. Once again, where it is not so controlled, it must be carried out, and all that is not right, we must correct. As far as work and employment are concerned, it is already a big problem and impresses us when I hear today my colleagues talking about how employers have not hired persons with disabilities, how the unique body of art is not working properly. And then I have to tell you I'm just being challenged and I have to say that today this government and this House of Commons, we recently passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which I'm going to say, we've improved the mistakes. I have to say this because since 2014 when it started with this process of art, employment, there have been a lot of mistakes and we couldn't even process of art and we couldn't do the employment process of people with disabilities the way it was imagined, even in such conditions we record an increase in the employment of people with disabilities. What's important is that we, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, have provided something we've never had, ever. In the Republic of Croatia we only know who are Croatian military disabled, but you don't know who the person with the disability is? Neither the D.A. nor I have a document saying we're people with disabilities. We have documents that we're persons with physical damage, and that's not disability. Body damage can cause disability, and it doesn't have to. Therefore, we have enabled the Institute of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to finally determine disability. The Institute of Arts is still, in most towns, and so is the town of Zagreb, a tenant of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Two days ago in Split, we opened new rooms of the Institute of Art, and I believe that under these human conditions, the final art will be able to be carried out properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82195	Mrs. Lukačić, just for one second, we will stop time and you will continue because I am extremely pleased that at the Croatian Parliament gallery I can welcome the delegation of the Committee on European Integrations of the Ukrainian Religious Works, meaning the Ukrainian Parliament who are staying on a working visit to the Croatian Assembly, so please welcome them with a round of applause. . Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Lukacic, please continue. Time has stopped. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82196	Thank you very much. So as for the assistants in the class, we talked, we heard today and about it, there was talk. The rule that was supposed to be passed long ago was a lot of remarks from a very disabled person of different categories. The Ministry finally brings him to an end, and in June, we'll have a rule on assistants in the class. As far as teaching assistants are concerned, I believe it's a big step, although, if you ask me personally, when I went to school, there were no assistants in class, so schools ended. I'm not saying I shouldn't today, but teachers and teachers must be educated how to work with students with developmental difficulties. I have an impression, and that's what many people tell me, that today teachers and teachers rely too much on assistants, so I won't say it's not good, it's good that there are assistants, and it'll certainly make schooling easier for a student with developmental difficulties, but I'd love to see both teachers and teachers devote a little bit more to students with developmental difficulties. I'm sorry we didn't hear when the D.A. presented her report, which was all done positively. So this year, or at the end of 2017, we did, we, when I say, think about all of us and the attorney's initiative and the great pawn and the government's proposal and us here in the Parliament, have made colleagues and colleagues something that no one has done for 20 years, which is an increase in the amount of personal disability. From 1250 kuna to 1500 kuna. Some will say it's not much, but for starters it's enough, given that no one has touched that amount for 20 years. Another thing about a person with disabilities is that no more personal disability is lifted for those with disabilities who are employed, so we wanted to encourage people with disabilities to get into the world of work, because of the abolishing of that fee, many did not want to hear about one day's work. Now, however, the situation is slightly different, but as regards the disabled, there is another major problem, and I am particularly pleased that Minister Nada Murganic, when we talked about it, has made a positive statement, the Ombudsman has been pointing to this problem for years, as I am, and here I am going to talk about it yesterday and on the board, and now I am going to ask the secretary of state here to take special care of it, since the Working Party for the Making of the Social Care Act has begun to work, to spread the personal disability, but just for all the censors. Personal disability is not a social compensation, it pays people with disabilities because they can't meet, not special needs like we had the opportunity to hear here today, but those needs that I can't satisfy because of my disability and are like anyone else's. So, a personal disability relieves all possible censorships. I could still talk about every single person with disabilities here, but I don't have time for that, and the number of people the D.A.'s turned to whether it's a lot or a little relative to the number of people with disabilities, I'll say a little, but it's a lot if one person with disabilities turns. As far as accessibility is concerned, we've done a lot. But colleagues and colleagues, please, all of you together are invited, you, MPs, to warn employers, to warn about accessibility and any rights that are violated in relation to persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82197	Thank you. We're moving on to the Voice Representatives' Club. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The D.A. asked for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82198	Here's a thank you. I'd like to thank Mrs. Lukacic for her presentation and for showing us about this report, and I'd like to say, here are a few things. Why is the report on so many sides? And we keep coming back during here during yesterday's debate and in the opinion of the government and comparing the data, is it little, is it a lot, is it like this, is it like that? From the very beginning, here is now the 10th report of this year by the Attorney General, if you look at the previous, etc., none of our reports were practically below 250 pages. In each report, we are equally well-conceived, which is that there are also recommendations and warnings listed inside, in some areas answers from the competent institutions to individual questions in order to actually have a full overview of a particular problem that we have cited if, in particular, a life situation or someone, an analysis of a research or something like that. I reiterate that the attorney's office has a role as a body to be a link between civil society, between persons with disabilities, between the Parliament, between the government and all those who can contribute to a better position and the life of people with disabilities in our country. In that part, the part is, we're not here to criticize, we're not here to wave a sword over someone's head, we're here to be actually help. And I think that all of these, this report of ours is actually one report that serves many people, many institutions, institutions that do domestically, which is the only thing that can be found in one place as much as what happens in the Republic of Croatia with people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. So this is whether it's big, small, whether it's extensive, not extensive. I think it's too far-fetched and I could add to it, and I've shorted it off, not to say from 700 pages practically to 350, believe me, if I'd put in there what someone did, as much as we did in cooperation with other bodies, it would have, I guess, 1,500 pages. I don't think the 25 pages I put on the summary can say anything that's meant to be said. That's why we're here today at this debate, but it's important to listen to what people with disabilities say, what associations say, and what those who actually advocate disability are regardless of whether they're civil society or institutions or something. As far as the deinstitutionalisation part is concerned, deinstitutionalisation is only part of the part that is referred to as independent life and participation in the community of persons with disabilities. The Republic of Croatia began with a process of deinstitutionalisation of many years ago, it is not a fruit nor a lawyer nor something that was before 3, 4 or 2 or 3 Governments, it is spent for many years and it is in fact directing people with disabilities to live in their homes, to live in their environment, in a healthy environment, to have control over their own life, to include making their own choices, their own choices and actually to have freedom, equality and respect for their dignity. It is necessary to change the position of persons with disabilities from the patient and object of care, the facility of protection. Many of us who have been on tours of a series of institutions, institutions, foster families, family homes and the like, we know and we know that it all comes down to having a roof over their heads and having food. Many of them do not have the right thing to do, so we have examples that in some of the institutions that we have come to, or homes, we have encountered people eating for days of desire. And that is normal, that one person in the evening who is a male healthy person is given a physically strong dinner at half-six, a spread, bread and a spread. Is it expected that this person will no longer eat after half-six, let alone search? Is it normal to shower in cold water, is it normal to say... When will she eat, at what time, when, what and how is she aware of her own, means abilities and abilities and knows how to say and how to ask? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it normal for her to have a Retirement from the rest of her pension so she can't go out and buy a Coke so she can't get out of the yard and that she can? Is involvement in the community the first store that's 500 meters away from that foster family, is that life in the community? I think there's a lot of, a lot of situations here where, of course, there are families that are high-quality and who are caring, but we can't talk about equality if I get a home family user calling me his landlord. What kind of relationship is that? Is that the relationship of an equal family member? I'm talking about cases we've visited and concrete facts. I'd just like to say that [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you very much for your attorney. Thank you.]] Okay, here's a chance. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82199	Excuse me, I have to have the same criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82200	No problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82201	Let's move on. Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82202	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, State Secretary with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's ahead of us, as we've all observed one extensive material. Otherwise, if you want to move forward in your life, if a man wants to move forward, then you need to be questioned, you need to put some criticism in that context, and in that context I am experiencing this report and we at the club of GLAS and HSU who, of course, will accept it for the simple reason that we should try to be better. We should try even better. We should try even more to help. In the opening part of the report itself, it says that 31% of the observations in 2017 were more compared to last year, which in fact shows me the fact of openness and transparency. I don't just read it in context there were more remarks because there were more shortcomings, but the context was more open, people could get more information, somehow they were more free to make those remarks, and when you look at the structured groups as they concerned, they referred to the problem of social protection, the problem of labour and employment, access to goods and services, pension insurance, health care, education and education. I'll say it first thing first, because when you leave, when you're in trouble with time, then forget something. What Mrs. Lukacic said on behalf of HDZ was extremely important, and this is about disability. So, the theme is that it's not social, that it's personal and that it doesn't have a topic of censorship and it's absolutely going to get support and we're behind it, for our programs advocated. This is related to the disability that a person has and the disability helps him for personal needs, for those personal standard needs at all, and it is not a social category and it has nothing to do with censorship and I absolutely stand up for it and if it is such a proposal you will absolutely have our support there because we think it is the basic thing he has. I'm going to stay on a few topics in this presentation because, of course, you can't process all the topics. The first topic is the right to independent life and life in the community. It's some kind of elemental right. The line where all of us together have to stand up for it all. In his report, among other things, the Ombudsman says that there is a need to leave the subject of foster care and leave the topic of people living in certain institutions. Of course you have to sort of make a schedule for everything. Of course, in general, those 10,000 people living in institutions should actually be allowed to live in communities, to ensure their rights, in a certain way, to be placed without coercion, to be equal with other citizens because that is the only way we can actually make a step further. When you have one model, never in your life is for anything you do a good one model. You must have several models and in several models really participate and help. As we all have done in our working life or in our working life that we have been dealing with certain problems, I must say that something that I regretted in the end has failed to be related to children with autism, but however children who are 19 years old and who are wanted by parents in one place at Vrbovac, they even could have come to an object that they wanted to reconstruct and allow in fact that young people with autism live there, to live, to allow them to do certain things and work, and it was one of the projects that were related to the EU and EU funds but eventually failed to withdraw funds. So we often look separately. What we need to look at, we need to look to enable equality with other citizens, to make them feel equal, not to feel that anyone gives anything to anyone, but to allow them really this equal life in one community and equal life with all other citizens. Similarly, a lot of remarks are related to employment and work, and at all a way to enable employment, to enable work. When we discuss at all, then we discuss that there are some two basic conditions for people to be able to work decently, make a decent living, feel good, enable them to work and give them housing conditions. And that's one big one, that's one big problem. Of course, examples should always be given by the public sector. It is the public sector that should make observations, examples of its activities, which should be employed and absolutely there are jobs that can be done. We always stress some examples where people with disabilities are involved, but when you think about them a little bit better and see them, then there you see that it's some kind of private investment, and the investment of a certain man. One of the excellent examples is the chocolate factory in the Križevci, which was created in this way and developed further. But what the whole society needs to participate and it should be the whole emphasis is the equality of persons with disabilities that are equal with our other citizens because they actually deserve it, are and should be. And in this context you should read this Report and in this context you should read the entire content. Of course, it's the attorney general's job to point out what's wrong, what needs to be improved, where there's still an emphasis to be on, and that's why I'm in the replica I gave to the secretary of state, and you're always kind of experiencing people. I kind of always try and say you have to show your examples. The first report by the attorney general, and when the work of the ministry that I led in some segments felt that it was not good, and I thought she was wrong, I personally experienced it, but then you realize that it must be an incentive to be different, that it must be an incentive to keep an eye on when you do legislation, that legislation must also be changed in accordance with the changes that are in society, and that where you have executive authority and where you can do something, you do. And one particular segment is a segment of accessibility, mobility and housing. And there were a lot of objections recorded by the attorney's office, and now I have to say that in relation to accessibility, you see that the Republic of Croatia has been sued and that, because it has not made it possible for it to be accessible, I think of a single facility in Karlovac, and for that it was sued or in Rijeka, I forgot because I didn't sign up for it. What's the point? The point is that all public institutions must be available to people with disabilities and not since yesterday, it's the rule that was first passed was brought somewhere in '86. which defined that there must be accessibility, which defined that a number of dwellings must be provided for persons with disabilities, which defined also the number of parking spaces that must be in public parking spaces, which defined related to tourism and to the accommodation of tourism facilities, a number of rooms for people with disabilities. So we've had it for a long time in our legislation. And then we have, since we have this for a long time, we have new buildings, new facilities, new public facilities are really designed, but let's be honest when private ones design their own apartment, and when they have a certain number of housing with disabilities, then there should be co-operation or with the local self-government unit because it's always a question, he'll design an apartment, make an apartment, who'll sell it? What I had was a case, it was about a new hotel, that hotel had the obligation under that rule to have a certain number of rooms for people with disabilities, everything you would say at this point, I'd say wrong, so I won't talk and that investor said a little bit, which one am I going to rent it to? Besides, I can't rent these rooms one way or another, so these are things that have to change, even our way of thinking, thinking, actually talking about that topic of involvement. This topic of involvement in everyday life, it's equal life, is a topic where we have to change and we have to change our consciousness, I deliberately in all this exposure I'm going to stay on this topic and not talk about children. I had an example of seeing a kindergarten in a city, in Cres, where a boy with disabilities was involved in kindergarten, and I have to admit it quite seriously. There the unit of local self-government did everything to make sure that this boy could come to kindergarten and what was extraordinary and what was useful to me to see and something that, that they all treated equally with this boy who had a serious disability and could relatively little get involved. So he got the opportunity to get involved, but all the other kids got the chance to grow up with the fact that there are different us, as there are different, different colors of hair, looks, heights, weights, or don't know what everything is, so being in life is different, and those kids are going to live with the idea and inclusiveness and people with disabilities, and that's important, so we can read the numbers through these reports, but what we should see in terms of education should see that we are raising ourselves in a way that diversity is normal, that this is a world where we live and that all of our actions and work should help. I'm going to end here, about general object adjustment, there's the role of unit local, I went into this emotional part, but I think it's important and it's said. And there is an excellent project that is a project at EU level, and this project that is at EU level is elevators, the installation of elevators in residential buildings. For the simple reason, it's a minimum standard, minimum conditions. Among other things, it was a great effort by an association to ensure the niche in Croatia. After one great effort and several meetings that went towards the Minister of Regional Development and when it was explained in two sentences, so we have a niche open to the energy efficiency programme in construction. And if you're building an elevator as part of the energy efficiency in construction, that's all right. However, if you want to install an elevator like an elevator in terms of general mobility, in terms of a better quality housing, then such a niche was not and there was quite a demand and appeal to the minister. We have even received from the EU that it is possible to finance 80 percent, but in the end they replied that they will not allow us to agree differently because we have not used enough of the funds for the basic programme So what is important is to talk from these reports about the shifts that have been made and there is always a shift, of course there must be also talk about criticism, emphasized because we have to strive and be better because if we do not apply critically then it is actually a topic of how much better to be. What this report should certainly highlight, and that is, disabled persons should be allowed all the conditions to be equal in all parts of their lives with other citizens, of course, of course, I always think that those who are trained to do so need methods, ways, and what we need to ensure, we need to ensure through daily life a more comfortable and decent life for such persons. What I have no problem with when such a big report comes, because then it says that all segments that need to be processed are defined, which should be defined but behind this one report, there must be some changes in the law that need to improve the living conditions for all and, of course, disabled persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82203	Thank you, too. Now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, I'm sorry, here's a comment from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82204	Thank you. I would just briefly comment on accessibility, I would like to say that, in fact, without accessibility and without housing, these are the basic preconditions with mobility so that we can even talk about any segment of independent life and life in the community. We still have a problem with affordable housing, we've been saying it for years because simply, many people, unfortunately because of their disability, which because of the consequences of age simply can't get out of their own homes and then we're having problems with this support that we're talking about. Support is necessary for persons in their own home because just without such support, without the affordable possibility of leaving the apartment we can actually not talk about any involvement in the community or we cannot talk about the dignity of the person with disabilities at all. I would return and say about these public buildings that we simply have to make public services available because in fact their non-availability assurance is discrimination of persons with disabilities, and in that part there was indeed one rightful verdict for the access of the court in Rijeka where one person with disabilities who is a lawyer was not guaranteed the possibility of coming to work or moving or anything else necessary to carry out all his duties as a lawyer. And what's important, it's precedent, so all the bodies in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to do everything to make public services available to people with disabilities regardless of whether we're talking about physical, sensory or any other damage. I would also like to emphasise that we are talking about a long series of precisely all kinds of compensations and social care as one of the most important areas for the life of persons with disabilities and in this part of personal disability as one of the most important and important fees at the moment, in fact we want Mrs Lukačić to make recommendations and suggestions, we have had a series of meetings in this part, precisely in order to leave her out or to move the censorship. But what is important for us to pass is finally one law that will actually include an allowance or disability costs, and in that part, then a personal disability as such should not even exist, because in fact it would in some way be a part of it. Whether it will be called an inclusive supplement, a personal disability or some other form of compensation, is not an important name. At this point, it is important that it really covers what is necessary for a disabled person to cover the cost of disability. What is also important to provide, among other things, an assistant, is what we called an assistant to a disabled person regardless of the damage involved. in some people, it may be a carer, some will be some form of assistant who will not be personal, depending on someone's work, so we really need to do everything we can to make a good regulation related to the Assistence Act that would actually cover the needs of support for that person in her own home or at work, at school and elsewhere where it is necessary to make a contribution equal to another citizen without disabilities. As far as living in institutions and outside institutions is concerned, it is necessary to develop community services parallelly, and we keep saying that, we can't just move people from institutions to communities, put them in one apartment, close them up and say, that's deinstitutionalization. We need to offer these people activities, we need to provide them with support adequate to their functional and remaining abilities and simply if some people have a problem in the environment, so how many people with disabilities so they have a problem in the environment? Then let's put it all in an institution because someone's yelling somewhere, someone's making some kind of violence somewhere. Let's set everything up, then make all of Croatia a megalomaniac institution. I think we all need to do everything we can to make this society sensitized as such for all of us, to know that this neighbor of ours might need support and help the lady whether he's old or young, whether he has any disability or not. If there isn't, it's just awareness of support and giving, actually tolerance and respect for another person to yourself, then I'm really wondering what this whole thing is all about and what we're all doing together. I think we should all have the right to choose and that each of us can and should say and say if, if not, then we should do so with the support of the adequate and not that someone else is speaking instead, at least where possible according to his damage and without services in the community it is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82205	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Maria Alfirev's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82206	Dear Vice President, the esteemed attorney, the secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to say right away that the SDP club is going to support this report and above all for the reason that it is real and so far we've heard it in these previous discussions, it's really comprehensive, I'd say it all the same. It could have been, as the D.A. said, it could have been even bigger, over 1,500 pages, but I don't think we need it, because I think we've both got these 300 and more pages, and we've got very, very clear indicators about where people with disabilities in our society are at this point, which we as a society do, which is what the government does on this issue and what it's really still needed to do. When we look at, when we sum up all the conclusions, the recommendations of this report, I'd say we're still somewhere at the very beginning. Why start at the very beginning? Let's actually look at all those strategies, all those things that we're like the state that we adopted, that we brought and that we said we'd stick to, that people with disabilities could live a full, equal life in the community. Some 10 years ago, therefore, more than 10 years ago, we also adopted a convention on the rights of persons with disabilities who are an international document and who are actually telling all of this about which the Ombudsman herself gave the report. This Convention speaks much more, speaks and extends and puts before each Member State which is a signator of this Convention a very, very clear task, very clear instructions on what needs to be done and what should be done to ensure that a person with disabilities, regardless of the type of difficulty, is really participating, I would say, with full lungs and fullness in the life of the community. This Convention and all the other documents that we have brought from those basic documents, which are from the Constitution, from the fundamental documents that protect human rights to this last one that I am going to say, this was adopted last year, I think last year, the National Strategy for Equalising the Enabling of Persons with Disabilities for 2017/20. I think it's saying, where all those directions, all those strategies, all those measures that need to be done to make a person with disabilities live in and out of the community and participate in all those activities in which people without disabilities are involved. So I would say that, somehow, I'm worried in some way, that right now at the beginning I'm going to say that we're still hearing actually words, we hear sentences, we hear statements that some people with disabilities have no place in the community because of their own, because of the forms of difficulty or the severity of difficulties. This is something we may not need to hear, especially in this House, where we are, because it is this House, this institution that first and foremost brought all these conventions and adopted national strategies, and we really need to do everything, first of all, from those who pass the laws, and then those who enforce those laws to the public themselves, to do everything in order to adapt as much as possible, or to make possible life in the communities of people with disabilities. I say, no matter the type and extent of the difficulty. Even though this has been done, although it is done to people with multiple difficulties, persons with certain behavioral disorders, persons with different difficulties, persons with different therapies, psychiatric treatments, and yet create those conditions that will allow for full participation, but above all one right to choice and right to vote, the right to decide on their lives. So I'm saying that this report is good, it's just talking about what needs to be changed, about what's done in some way, but it needs to make it even better, it talks about everything people aren't happy with. On one of the committees, I mentioned that I am glad that there is also an increased number of objections or address to the Ombudsman, not because it may be an increased number of violations of human rights or an indication of errors in the system, but which in my opinion also points to one confidence in this institution, the trust of the Ombudsman institution, which means that it is doing its job well, that persons with disabilities or their family members or others in the system have confidence that they will hear their voice, that they can point to certain problems and that it will be publicly presented and that this will also result in certain changes. On the other hand, in this regard, I believe that it is good, and I hope that in the future there will be one such trend that people will be increasingly easier and more confidently address the Ombudsman. On the other hand, we have really on page 21, I would say the government's excuses on the one hand understand the government's need to say everything they've done in the past year, what they've done, what improvements in the system they've brought in, what they intend to do yet. However, the very intonation of this opinion that they have brought, and in some ways it is said that it is incomplete and on the other hand, the whole impression actually speaks of it being somehow defensive, that it is aimed at saying what the government has done well. Although many of these, many of those allegations, statements and sentences found in the opinion speak in fact about what is actually normal, natural, and actually one job itself, the Government or the Ministry. So, something that goes into one regular and I would say, in part, the work of the Ministry itself, which is the implementation of certain laws, but on the other hand, and the work on, that is, the analysis and adoption of one quality system system system system system, i.e. the implementation of certain provisions of the law, so that, on the basis of these good analyses, the implementation of the laws themselves and the functioning of the system itself, some new amendments and additions of the laws themselves, we can primarily talk about the Social Care Act. In that sense, I would point out one or two or three things in this part in which I now have an exhibitor on behalf of the club, and later, in an individual debate, I will continue. I would point out a few areas that have already been touched in some way through previous discussions, but I think it is very valuable to mention them because they are just talking about the situation of persons with disabilities in our society and how much we as a society still have to do to not recognise this right and say that people, that they deserve to be in the community or have the right, so we must finally as a society change and say that people with disabilities have absolutely equal rights and we cannot say that someone in our position deserved being a being in the community. A person with disabilities has and must have the same rights as a person who has no disability and that is simply the starting point from which to start and whenever we pass a law actually speak from that position. Whether someone deserved it or not, that's not what a disabled person should talk about. It's simple, here. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is very important and there is a lot of mention in the Report itself, so I would like to pay a little attention to this particular article because this article actually says what I have already mentioned and does not actually make a difference between people with a higher degree of disability, with more difficulties and persons with less difficulty. This article actually states that every person, regardless of type, shape, difficulty weight, has the right to independent life and life in the community. Now, how are we going to do it as a state, as Croatia, as a signator of this Convention and as a country that has adopted national strategies that follow these provisions of the Convention, how we are going to do it, actually adapt to our existing state of development, to our degree of development, to both economic and other, so it remains on us. But anyway, we have to do everything we can to find those models, those ways that will best fit life in the community. With this in mind, therefore, the process of deinstitutionalisation should also go parallel to the development of services in the community, so we should say that we have really recently had a sense, and in the media opportunities to see and read how the process of deinstitutionalisation has experienced its failure or that it is going in one wrong direction. I would say that this is the time when good analyses are to be made, when a good, good analysis of the financial needs of different service providers is to be made, and accordingly to bring about those changes and additions that will go towards creating and allowing some other models of involvement in the community because at this point, we obviously do, in addition to that, institutional or life in large institutions and organised housing where we can live up to 5 people, we don't have that other diapazon or model or a wide range of different services that will enable people and life in the community to meet the needs of people with greater difficulties and greater needs, and so on, to enable them all of those rights to, human rights that they have. First of all, the right to choose, the right to decide and the right to quality participation in the community. Of course, the report also mentions a number of areas where systematic changes should be made. I would leave later for the individual precisely the subject of a personal assistant and the adoption, in accordance with this adoption of appropriate laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82207	Before continuing on behalf of the club of representatives we welcome the elementary school Supetar na Brač, students on the left and right... /Applause./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We continue with the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2017. The next on behalf of Klub SDSS representative is counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82209	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, State Secretary. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will talk about the 2017 Work Report which we consider essential to indicate the situation and problems faced by persons with disabilities contain accurate statistics, opinions and recommendations addressed to various state bodies. It also contains proposals to improve people with disabilities, which should certainly be taken into account, and therefore this report certainly has special significance. In 2017, as we had the opportunity to hear in the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and the repression of all forms of discrimination was a total of 2913 acts, the Advocate's Office addressed 1827 citizens, which is 31% more than compared to 2016, which certainly speaks of the growing problem encountered by this population. More than 650 recommendations and warnings have been addressed to competent authorities which concerned individual cases, as well as a group of disabled persons with the aim of improving the quality of their life in the community. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints were in the field of social protection, labour and employment, access to goods and services, pension insurance, health, education and education. Law infringements were related to the same areas in most cases to harmonising the reasonable adjustment and long-term nature of the procedure. More than 300 citizens with disabilities addressed the Ombudsman to the area of social care, which suggests that people with disabilities remain concerned, not rightholders. It is estimated that there are still restrictions in achieving individual fees and services which do not encourage the right to choose and participate in the community. Among other things, it is noted that there is still no guarantee of the right of persons with disabilities to independent life and life in the community to choose the place of residence and where and with whom they will live. More than 10,000 people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia today live in institutions and their fate depends on the will of their guardians and welfare centres who instead made such a decision, so life behind locked doors to institutions in their best interests is considered by their guardians. In institutions deprived of freedom, and without committing a crime, they spend most of their lives without the right to privacy or any choice. The exclusion of persons with disabilities in an institution is contrary, largely contrary to their will, because they are not provided with support, or services that could live in the community, which represent discrimination, i.e. segregation, is contrary to the principles of respect for human rights of persons with disabilities and obligations that the state has undertaken by ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In particular, the report warns children and difficulties in development and persons, so it is especially about children with developmental difficulties, of course they should be considered an integral part of our society and that they belong among us and that disability will not be a reason for segregation and separation into special institutions and schools. Key changes should be made in our society so that the active relationship and concrete actions in creating a more accessible and inclusive environment in all social areas will change. The largest number of people excluded from society, 3976, are persons with mental disabilities, which indicates health care shortages with a lack of rehabilitation and insufficient support in the community from which they should not even be excluded. I also believe on behalf of the club that the report should have dealt with the problem of motherhood, women with disabilities, their sex, marriage and the issue of their reproductive health. These are topics to talk about because they are mostly taboo topics today. One of the biggest problems facing women with disabilities in reproductive age are numerous prejudices, insufficient access to their reproductive rights, non-adjustment of information and education on reproductive health, non-interest and need for healthcare professionals to provide adequate care tailored to the needs of women with disabilities. Society often experiences women with disabilities as asexual and thus deny adequate support in reproductive age. Women with disabilities of childbearing age are discouraged for motherhood and are openly condemned and deprived of parental support. Lack of information, lack of support, architectural barriers and barriers in the heads, as well as the amazement and infidelity of known and unknown additional food prejudices that make some believe that motherhood is inaccessible or even forbidden zone for women with disabilities. The prejudices faced by people with disabilities, when they want to have children, are such as to tell them that they will not be able to care for them or that they are better off without them. This topic is more important in research conducted on a hundred women with disabilities in reproductive age, whether they are mothers or not, 49% of women have higher or higher education, 48% of high school and 3 primary schools. And even 54% of those women aren't employed. Women from 10 Croatian cities are represented, and target groups were mothers with sensory and physical disability. Almost a third of these women were not satisfied with their concern before, during and after childbirth. But their comments conclude that this can also refer to problems and failures in the health system. As far as maternity equipment is concerned, most of them had negative experiences for birth purposes with disability. Several women with disabilities who participated in the study pointed out that they lack financial support, especially because of the need for appropriate assistance. They point out that they would need help at the house to do day-to-day work, stressing the need for an assistant who could provide them with considerable assistance in organising everyday life, which is therefore normal practice in other European countries. How many of us in the street, in the park, kindergarten or school, have seen a mother with disabilities, and how much are we familiar with their needs regarding the support of their motherhood? And yet not seeing them does not mean that they are not there, because in Croatia annually, about 330 women with different forms of disability are born in Croatia, and the figure is estimated to be higher. They, like all other women, deserve care and support and to be provided with dignified motherhood. The society of equal opportunities, the inclusion, the destruction of barriers calls are often heard, but at least when it comes to pregnant women and mothers with disabilities, these calls are mostly just declarative. As for the care of reproductive health of disabled women, it is known that gynological services should ensure adequate care for women of all age groups who have some disability such as cerebral paralysis, autism, trisomy 21 and other genetic disorders and cognitive deficits, traumatic brain injury, spinal cords, amputated extremities, sensory disorders and others. In practice, it's not like that. Namely, gynecological care of women with disabilities sets specific requirements for technical conditions for a gynecological clinic, both at primary health care level and at secondary or tertial level and operating room, and then on these specific conditions, heralds to say further education of the gynological team as well as specific time normatives. Some of the technical conditions for a gynaecological clinic in which care for women with disabilities who need to be satisfied are provided special access, so the ramp or lift adapted for wheelchairs and other orthopaedic aids, specially equipped gynological table with special customized options. Therefore, the launch in all directions, for example, or the addition of specific extensions. Suitable editing and supply of sanitary nodes in the waiting room and others. Some of the additional conditions for the gynaecological team are additional knowledge and skills of special health gynological risks in women with different types of disability, adjustment of consultation, diagnostics, treatment and monitoring under special circumstances. The time norms by the legislator are mostly tailored to the care of women with disabilities. But the problem, as I said, is most often created at the level of primary health care in gynological clinics in health homes where sometimes gynecological teams receive up to, have up to 9,000 insurance companies and 40 more women a day. Not going deeper into the issue of the organisation of healthcare, we will mention that women with disabilities are aware of the lack of health care system when they are involved and delay leaving in this case gynecologist. So it often happens that in a gynological clinic with a problem that comes, which already requires both more extensive and longer diagnostic processing and more complex and long-term treatment, and the success of treatment and the prognosis behind therapy may not be what they might be at that early stage. For all these reasons, I felt it was necessary to point out this problem that was understated. I had the opportunity to work with people with disabilities, and they very vividly told me a story. A short story about the life of disabled people. The story sounded like this. The state will pay for rehabilitation and treatment of a child with developmental difficulties if necessary. The state will then pay for the schooling of children who often involve paying and personal assistants. The state will finance books, the state will pay for more education in college and even retraining. Eventually, it will create an educated and self-aware person who can and wants to work, but has no chance. Then the individual with all his options will turn into a disappointed, depressed and unemployed individual to whom the state will pay social compensation. If lucky, this same individual will be employed in one of the above-mentioned associations or as an illusion of opportunities at a workplace where it is self-intention and this will, of course, be proof that persons with disabilities have been accepted in the Republic of Croatia. All of the above, unfortunately, is not an expression of irony and cynicism but a realistic representation of the reality in which we are. If people with disabilities were first referred to as persons, and only then about their disability, in the case of their life or business success, it would not be necessary to talk about a person with disabilities as someone who can do something. It would not be necessary to admire her but to treat her as normal. In such a society, it would be perfectly normal for a person with disabilities to study, dance, do it normally because he does it in a different way than those who have no disability, so he does it in an acceptable way. With us, every participation of a person with disabilities in some common aspects of life is considered to be a great success, almost heroic work, and insurance of the conditions in which this person is located can therefore seem to be the height of humanity. However, in this Report, what is positively to be pointed out is that we have a certain reduction in the number of unemployed persons of the Croatian Institute. So in 2017 there were 2648 people with disabilities who were 1.7% of the employee population. Compared to the number of people with disabilities in the same period in 2016, therefore, there is an increase in employment, so we have 15.83%. In any case, pointing to the previous Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82210	Thank you. That's what we're done with the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We're continuing an individual debate. First is colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected State Secretary with an associate, esteemed Deputy Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. We have already mentioned, therefore, that this report is extensive, that it is very comprehensive and it is not surprising since we are talking about almost 12% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. Today, cameras and media are focused on other topics. I think it'd be good. I am afraid that today our media won't publish much about this debate at the plenary session in the Croatian Parliament, but I think we should keep talking and when the annual report comes up again and in this way to raise awareness of certain topics and to raise awareness that persons with disabilities who have specific needs live among us. I'll talk about two topics today. The first is related to persons with mental disorders, primarily related to their persons freedom and security, and I will briefly look back on the problem of people with autistic spectrum disorders. If we look at the prosecutor's report, it's big, but the report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia is indefinitely large, which I don't see any harm in it, I think it's good and that the responsible persons who wrote this on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have made an effort to read the attorney's report further and in detail and to point out possible differences. According to Article 22. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, is human freedom and personality inviolable, when we talk about the freedoms of persons with mental disorders, we must bear in mind all the positive changes that have occurred in recent years, which are primarily related to the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, but if we take into account the Ombudsman's report, then we can see that certain hospitals, which are not psychiatricly, are still applying the Law on the Protection of Patients, which is not directed when there is a law that is more specific, so when it comes to persons with mental disorders and there is mentioned a general hospital. What I would also like to mention is related to the application of Article 26. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, for me as a psychiatrist, comes into my eyes that a large psychiatric hospital has not sent to the Ombudsman the number of received notices marked as accommodation without consent. It's impossible that they're not like a hospital that has almost 600 hospital beds had any receptions according to Article 26, it's St. John's psychiatric hospital, so I think it's good to send these instructions and keep repeating because the fact is that if we look at retrospectives in the last 10, 15 years, the fact is that human rights people with mental disorders are significantly improved in the Republic, so let's say again now if we look at foster families, homes, I think that the future of specialised homes can in one way look like segregation. We also have a problem in elderly homes with elderly people who have psychiatric diagnosis and certain homes, most of the homes for older people do not receive persons who have some psychiatric diagnosis, which in one way they can understand because they are not teamed up enough. This mentions the Ombudsman’s objection to the application of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation and is a distinction from health institutions where the Court’s evaluation is possible, unlike social care institutions. However, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government there explains that the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation and Applicable and that it applies to social care institutions. All in all, as a psychiatrist who works for 15 years with people with mental disorders, I can say from my daily experience that there are great foster families, but unfortunately there are situations, as the lawyer said, that a person with the mental disorders of his foster homeowner calls his boss, which again shows one definitely inappropriate relationship. Here during this morning's debate was a talk of deinstitutionalisation, I think it is an important step forward in respecting the human freedoms of all persons with disabilities, especially persons with mental disorders, but I would also agree that not deinstitutionalisation at all costs, because unfortunately, there are such damages and such persons, for which there are certainly no foster family, or homes that can be specialized in mental adults, are not so competent and so teamed that they can take care of that small but yet a certain group of people who need such help. Many times in the media come up with various sensational writings, and when we talk about respecting human freedoms, we need to explain what accommodation means without consent, which means forced detention up to 48 hours when a person who is in danger of his or her mental illness has to be hospitalized and when we talk about forced accommodation that necessarily involves judicial institutions that can decide on forced accommodation for up to 30 days to begin. But here, too, it should be mentioned and commended by the relevant ministries, above all the Ministry of Demography, family and social policy, which, with the amendments to the Social Care Act, made it impossible for persons providing social care services to not be able to enter into agreements on alienation or burden on the property of users, which unfortunately was a certain number of abuses. And here, although those of us who aren't in those institutions seem to be going too slowly, certain shifts are happening for the better. In the end, I would like to mention, there have already been speeches, the issue of concern of persons with autistic spectrum disorders. In 1995, unfortunately, the children's department was closed to care for people with autistic spectrum disorders at St. John's psychiatric hospital. After that, there was simply a stalemate who slowly took the car downhill, now there are colleagues Ljubica Lukačić and counterpart Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, we were also at the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Health on the subject, we were familiar with the joint project with UNICEF. There is therefore a lot of problems because three ministries are involved and I think it should be accelerated as quickly as possible with those capacities because without a modern diagnostic centre we cannot even apply early interventions so many times parents are in despair and are forced to look for quasi experts and go to neighboring countries to look for so-called. professional assistance which is certainly not entirely professional. And that is why I also appeal to the establishment of a special clinic for children's adolescent psychiatry at KBC Zagreb, I know that Minister Murganić and her team also worked out to get it better as soon as possible because, in fact, without early breakthroughs, without diagnostics, we cannot intervene early, and then we also have certain segregation problems that occur in enrollment of certain persons with autistic spectrum disorder in kindergartens and in the first grade of primary school. And the other day we had a situation that we could read in the media, so we all have to blow together into the same core so that quality of service, so that the quality of life of people with autistic spectrum disorders would be as good as possible and that Croatia would not be at the beginning of providing health care to those persons if we compete with other EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82212	Two replicas to the show. Lovebird doll, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, when you talked about deinstitutionalization you mentioned deinstitutionalization yes but not at all costs. That's exactly what I was talking about when I was talking about it on behalf of the club, and I think they got me wrong. Always at any time deinstitutionalisation, but some people with disabilities have such a great need for medical care that they simply are not able to live in an organised state. That's what I was going to say, and I'm glad you brought it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, when you talked about deinstitutionalization you mentioned deinstitutionalization yes but not at all costs. That's exactly what I was talking about when I was talking about it on behalf of the club, and I think they got me wrong. Always at any time deinstitutionalisation, but some people with disabilities have such a great need for medical care that they simply are not able to live in an organised state. That's what I was going to say, and I'm glad you brought it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82215	So here's one of the bright examples is Dom Turnić, who at the Gorski kotar in Mrkoplje in Moravaci made a deinstitutionalisation where he lives by several people with mental disorders who are able to live in this way. But unfortunately, here I am saying, and there is State Secretary Plegikosa and Minister Murganic who have already worked out, we have the situation, and there will definitely need together the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Policy to think about opening specialized health centres where it will be possible to provide certain therapeutic interventions precisely for these very difficult groups of people with the most severe physical and psychological damages so that they can then provide health care when necessary because unfortunately, despite all the facilities, it is quite problematic at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82216	Thank you. Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82217	Thank you. I must commend my colleague in your presentation, which is that a right measure has been put in place between what we need to institutionalise and what needs to be deinstitutionalized. We certainly need to enable people with disabilities to have institutional knowledge, and that is why it is necessary to set up a department that you said about child adolescent psychiatry, and one way in which we can adequately respond and bypass the impotence of the institution. Institutions shall not be powerless when it comes to the provision of knowledge and the provision of professional services. However, we must not replace the thesis, so we expect that through institutions, individuals get emotional need and get emotional support, it can never be obtained through institutions, because in this way we do the destruction of the emotional one. And I believe that it is really necessary for Croatian society to construct a proper institutional concern, that it will be a concern of knowledge and expertise to enable our fellow citizens to grow emotionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82218	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82219	Thank you. So in this context, I would also mention the question mentioned in the prosecutor's report, which concerns the protection of mental health in the community, so to speak. Community psychiatry, it was only in the beginning that the pilot project carried out in Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Karlovac and Križevci began to be as few hospital treatments as possible in people who, for example, suffer from schizophrenia and then mobile psychiatric teams were established to visit those persons at their homes, their families and, of course, if necessary with institutions. So institutions are definitely needed, but not in that period and in those periods that were needed 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82220	Thank you. And before continuing on behalf of the promoter, Mrs Mira Pekic Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82221	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I might want to explain some things to Mr. Cellic, and perhaps it is about differences in the application of the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruption and the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. In fact, we have often met in practice cases where people with mental disorders have often been asked to apply the Law on the Protection of People with Mental Disorders and to further discriminate against them as well as to persons with mental disorders when treated with other diseases and in other departments, the Law on the Protection of Patients must apply. That's one thing. Secondly, when we talk about applying Article 26, which is accommodation without consent, it is either forced hospitalisation or voluntary accommodation, these are three options, the reception must always be given to show the will of a person with mental disorders at reception in a psychiatric institution whether it is a person who is deprived of his or her business ability or not. At any moment, I must stress this is important to question and assess the capacity of a person who enters a psychiatric institution whether she is able to give consent because of her current health condition, whether or not she is deprived of her business skills. Therefore, if at the time of entry into a psychiatric institution, if a person is assessed to be a person, but it must be very clearly demonstrated and visible from medical documentation and examination, if it is estimated that he is unable to give written consent, then in its name the guardian signes. If a person is deprived of his or her ability and has a guardian, it is often the case that a person who is admitted to a psychiatric institution and an assessment is to be detained and opposed to hospitalisation, in this case it is considered to be an accelerated process of deprivement of his or her business ability and of the appointment and appointment of a guardian who would make such a decision. However, a psychiatric hospital must inform the Ombudsman within 48 hours of all cases when it comes to persons who are under custody and when the guardian gives written consent and the person could not do so because of his current state of health. The lawyer within the 48 hours of receiving this notice has the right to verify the eligibility of the accommodation, however we are witnesses, you have wondered why a certain large hospital has very little application for accommodation counsel without consent, unlike some other hospitals. The reason for this is still arbitrary interpretations I would say, the hospital in which cases the Ombudsman should be informed but what we have seen in practice, which is that often happens or we have such statements and complaints of patients, that they are urged to give their written consent because if they do not, then the mechanism of forced hospitalisation is initiated, and then it is said, if the court decides, the competent county court, then your stay in a psychiatric hospital will be much longer than if you agree to stay in the hospital. I wanted to say this a little bit that I might explain these differences between certain forms of accommodation in a psychiatric hospital and you said, at one point you mentioned the possibility of developing a psychiatry in the community, the only person with mental impairment or mental impairment are people who do not have the ability to rehabilitate in the community but who mostly weigh the form of treatment for people with mental impairment is hospital treatment in Croatia and that is something that we want to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82222	Thank you. We ended up in the name of clubs, we proceed individually, the next fellow Silvano Hrelja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82223	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorneys, or deputies, with an associate, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I have no intention of dissipating these reports very much, but I wanted to say something in principle. We have here on the one hand a very precise attorney's report, we have a hyperproduction of the government's eye on that report, so there's created a sensitivity that shouldn't be. Namely, it is not the two camps of the Ministry and the Advocate General, but is the lawyer of the Croatian Parliament who has received special tasks that certain ministries dealing with this problem would not suffer from the so-called so-called. Organisational blindness would not see certain problems in society. I think they're partners before rivals and rivalry is seen from reports and answers. Of course, you need to do positive reports, of course you have a partial right but you don't have to flaunt these relationships but you need to look at the problems and look at them first, which is whose role, because indeed the lawyer is working without any intention of working on anyone, working on the basis of that and on the basis of the insight into the defects in the system, working on the basis of people who have turned because of them and exist. And of course, as easy and elegant a system as possible to build, build up, correct certain shortcomings as possible, rather than justify ourselves on the public stage. I think it's counterproductive and it doesn't produce adequate results. And if the system is burdened with problems, it's burdened with problems. On our board I met for the first time, I think there is probably this information that in Croatia as of 13.4.2016, I remembered that number because it was my birthday, that we had in the register of the Public Health Office 511 000 people with disabilities, so every eight citizens of the Republic of Croatia are persons with disabilities. I can't believe it, I can't believe it. I think a person with disabilities has fewer, and perhaps citizens with functional difficulties in moving in life have more, due to age, illness, etc. They're not covered by this, but they have difficulties. What am I building this claim on? Well, look, in 1990, we put 50,000 people in the disability pension category, but they ended up in disability pensions. So they had a changed working capacity and were on the care of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, possibly 1997 and '98. A year. And they were under disability pensions. So, what do I mean? I want to say that the policy that takes over the role of the profession has a strong impact on this system and that it really shouldn't be, that the profession here should play a dominant role and that here it should look at this entire register primarily from the position of functionality in relation to something. Because someone who is a person with limitations, or disability in relation to a particular workplace, does not mean that he must have disability in the remaining work capacity for another job. I think that here we have a pretty rigid system and we don't act on changes, changes in this system, and in the meantime we're getting awfully old as a society, and new problems arise that even those who don't have, are nowhere in the register, are not registered as disabled people have existential problems. One of these problems is new, it started to be given in some way, i.e. to get the public's light at the end of 2016, and this is the initiative of the HT Retired Association on the possibility of financing the installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings. These people, I am unusually grateful to them that they have broken through one, to the European Commission itself and received confirmations that this is possible to finance, but I think that there is also no support from the relevant ministries and regional development and the Ministry of Social Care to accept these initiatives and to push them together because it is our daily bread. That's what's happening around us, it's possible our parents, our neighbors. I'm lucky, so I live in a family home, but most of them live in Croatia in these multi-story residential buildings and in those years, about '70. They don't have a choice. I would like to say that I would be very happy if the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Engineering really managed to do for what is being said around it that it will solve all problems, but it is very difficult, on a unique scale, to artificialize all people. I also agree with what is said here in the discussion and what is said on the board, that we must create all assumptions that all entities, that all the competent ministries and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance and the Ministry of Social and Employment Centres and the Employment Office can be the owners and the institution itself so that they can initiate professional rehabilitation and employment procedures, job adaptations, etc. I'd love to, but I'm afraid of us, I'm afraid of us, I'm afraid of our bad habits, I'm afraid of not understanding teamwork and misunderstanding, I'm afraid of not conducting coordination of activities so-called. Interresorial. This isn't a problem. The problem of people with disabilities, the problem of this number, the problem of not understanding what is in this story, is not the problem of one ministry, nor is the problem only of lawyers for people with disabilities. We've had 250 000 disability pensions in our coalition government. And then Minister Miranda Mrsic decided that those who have passed 65 years of age go into retirement, which is quite normal. And when they were told that they would not lose zero material rights, but would only get other status, it was still dissatisfaction because as we developed society and we like to catch what it is, in some cities they had these parking permits for people with disabilities on the grounds that they were users of disability pensions, and not on the basis of the degree of disability, so there was a loss of certain benefits. The system has made a good move, but bending the system over the years is putting us in the middle of something that we can do. I would like to finally know the pure definition of disability in the Republic of Croatia, what if everything is clear and I would like to have what I have already mentioned, this functional approach to these assessments who, why, according to whom, and not so generally because I can't believe by comparing myself with one Germany that they have the same and that each eight is the same person with disability. It's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82224	Thank you. We have five replicas for the presentation of our colleagues. First up, she's a colleague of Sabina's Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrelja, you have well actually appealed to the Government that you should understand the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, but also all those associations that act with the aim of protecting certain particularly vulnerable social groups that concern persons with disabilities as partners and not as enemies. I just want to give one example here of actually deafening one big problem facing children with developmental difficulties in our schools. Unfortunately, now it has been years and a few days in which it is retreated and puts into public consultation with the interested public the Regulation on assistants in teaching and communication intermediaries. This is one of the key forms of support and support for students with developing difficulties in the system and it is unacceptable for solutions to stall so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82226	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82227	Dear fellow Members, I agree that associations that are interested in representing disabled persons are, in any case, an important subject in this entire system, but also associations, I must again be realistic and say, not to perform ultimatically. They must have understanding of other associations and other needs, so there is not only one truth. There are many equal truths here, among other things there are children with developmental difficulties and their school programs and the promotion of their education. Thank you for the replica to complete my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82228	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Vučetic Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82229	Thank you. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, what you have said is that there is a certain tension between the ministry and the D.A.'s office, I disagree. I disagree for the simple reason that the place where we are now discussing it is the legislative body and the Parliament, not the theatre. We are not looking at a show directed by the ministry, nor are we advocacy director, but we are taking part in the reflection of common policies, common goals. The aim of both the Ministry and the Attorney's Office is to facilitate life and raise the quality of life for people with disabilities, and therefore we cannot talk about any tension, because the attorney's office, the ministry, did not come to the Parliament to stamp out their mental trail, but came to report and participate in a joint policy-making process that would raise the level and quality of life of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82230	Replication response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82231	I thank you for the replica, dear colleague Marko, but I will always allow myself an experience level of discussion, something that we all have the right to have because at the end of the 15 years I've been here, so I've seen the government's answers and reports of all the lawyers and lawyers, and because of their own differences and overexcessive abundance, I think that's where the dose is entered and let's say, someone may have been overly sensitive to what is not necessary. There really should be a circus here, not a circus, but an arena, but a political arena where an argument should be dominated always. I think this is on a good track, but I also allow my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82232	Thank you. Replica No. 3nd colleague Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82233	My colleague Hrelj, you mentioned the art in the Office of Professional Art for... The person with the, yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was the intensity of setting up that body is that finally in the Republic of Croatia we have the same disability for the same damage to the organism. It is known that in the Republic of Croatia we have two types of disabled. One is a person with disabilities, one is a person with a disability defined in the system, we can tell the health care system or the social and the part that is defined in the defense system and it is known that defence decisions on the degree of disability are different from those of other bodies that were outside that defensive section, and that is something that is unfair to persons who have lower rights because of this, have lower rights, while in the defence system we have very generic people with disabilities. And that's what this body was supposed to solve. So, that same damage to the organism, the same disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82234	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82235	Ma dear colleague Mrsic, the intention was in any case noble and the intention was not abandoned, therefore accepted by the government, so we will see in the end whether it will be. I'm sure you're right about the general disability skills. But I have asked a question in my discussion and in my debate regarding what, when it comes to the workplace, there are workers needed and... Factors and numerical abilities and psychomotor abilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that a certain degree of disability in a given workplace can mean that it can do a certain job without a problem, and on another job it is a 100% restriction. So, just in that part, I didn't suspect good intentions, but I do know that art can't be uniquely applied to all areas. We need to make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82236	Thank you. Replica No. 4 of Ljubica Lukačić's colleagues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82237	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hrelja, you mentioned well in your statement that fear is a habit when it comes to art. True, all of us were afraid when the single body of art began to work, but the regulation on art methodologies did give some frames, and I think that it should finally know exactly what you're saying, who these people are with disabilities, who are persons with physical impairment, and who are not. And already today they determine disability in relation to work and the solution that should soon be visible to the entire Croatian public should finally determine several segments, who is a person with disabilities, whether he has the remaining working ability etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82238	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82239	Dear colleagues, you and I have been following this for a long time, and you see that I am restrained, that I know how to react some time, but that I have confidence in what people do, and especially if little steps of progress are seen. The worst thing is to create euphoria that will solve it all. Let us be careful and be satisfied if, through the system of the unique body of art in the Office for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, 70% are properly resolved and placed in certain frames, and the rest we will have to adapt the system because these are specificities in the system itself. But in any case, I'm looking at this process and I'm monitoring progress in this process in developing a single body of art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82240	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposition of colleague Vecligaj Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82241	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Hrelj, I see in his presentation, and there are a few people in front of clubs and in individual debates there have been a matter of access, you have specifically mentioned multi-story buildings. In addition to multi-story buildings, however, it is important to ensure access to persons with disabilities and certain institutions and institutions, welfare centres, red cross buildings, etc. which they must use, it should be something that is mandatory. And what I think is very important because of the socialization of these people is access to certain cultural institutions, sports resorts, social institutions, and there needs one real institutional assistance. Because small municipalities and cities are very difficult to finance, to manage through various ways and through various competitions, but it is definitely not enough. That's why it's good to think about this policy here, but we need to act more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82242	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82243	I thank you for your rep. I agree with you. I mentioned it because this is a new project and opened up as a possibility for the government of the Republic of Croatia to secure a new niche for the financing and construction of elevators and to withdraw EU money of 85%. And for the institutions, that possibility existed before, of course, I'm trying to make it the poorer the higher priority because there's no one else to help them. Not everyone was lucky enough to be developed as some cities like Zagreb, etc. And by that principle should help, there should be a reverse order because big cities can do something on their own. We are trying to keep people in the place of residence to get them a favor, not to have to put them in retirement homes, and, of course, the whole of Europe has given up, and they will not co-finance us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82244	Thank you. And before further an individual debate on behalf of the proponent of the interventions of Mrs Mira Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to say that Croatia by the share of people with disabilities, which is about 12%, is not different from many European countries. In many European countries, this percentage is much higher. Why? Because these countries provide much more support and services to disabled people. The disability must be seen as the result of one failure and the state to respond to the needs of a particular category of its citizens. Thus, damage is not what creates disability, but disability creates obstacles in the environment. Not only those physical, not only architectural but also obstacles that are invisible to the eye. I think if we really want to be committed to this task to improve the position of people with disabilities, then we must always keep in mind how this decision or the law will affect the position and condition of people with disabilities. It's the only way we can move forward. I think maybe we should start thinking about how to look at the needs of people with disabilities through the need for a certain kind of support. It's not just services, it's not just fees, it's also a change of attitudes in this way we're going to allow really one fullness of life in the community. It is as complex as it should be for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. We should start thinking about removing different obstacles, involving people with disabilities in all areas of life, from education, from the earliest age to the older age. We must do everything to make every area available to them and that their disability cannot be a reason to isolate them, segregate them and exclude them from different areas of life, from education through employment to influence and political, influence political decisions, participation in culture, sports and all other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82246	We have two replicas for Mrs. Knezevic's intervention. The first is his colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Hajdash-Doncic. Mrs. Pekic-Princević sent a key message in this brief intervention. So the government doesn't need to write us an explanation on 20 and a few pages, but we need to offer solutions. And here it is crucial that today be the conclusion of all of us. So, the attorney general's report shows us what are the main problems of people with disabilities, and I'd just come from what's listed as one major problem, which is early intervention. So, from early intervention through preschool education, primary and secondary education, we solve key problems for people with disabilities. I would ask the government's representatives not to write excuses but to offer solutions to the problems that the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities has indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82248	Would you like to respond? Okay. The next replica is colleague Sagar Tomislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82249	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Knezevic, exactly what you said is actually the point and I see the meaning and submission of this report, as some colleagues have said, we are not here to listen to a nice report or to criticize the government, nor to justify ourselves to us. We're here for one purpose, which is to make life easier for all people with disabilities. And what the Republic of Croatia signed by signing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities actually ratifying itself in 2007 has taken as a goal, and you have emphasized this, is precisely social inclusion with the medical model of disability to go on the social model. Because disability doesn't exist until they come across obstacles, until then we don't see disability. But when people with disabilities come across an obstacle, that's where disability comes in. And there's still a lot of sea in that direction. Croatia has done a lot in the legislative direction, but much more in social consciousness must change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82250	Thank you. We continue with individual discussions. Next up is colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82251	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Attorney General and Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's how I'm going to listen to the debate until now, somehow I'm going to relate to this very last exhibit, that is, addressing the deputy attorney 'cause it seems to me, it's really one key message that actually speaks of this respect for the truly fundamental human rights of persons with disabilities. When I'm following in the House right now and I'm talking about a subject that is personal to me and professionally already part of life, over 20 years, then it seems to me that there's very little time because one of my entire lives is professional, but by following it, a person with disabilities can hardly fit in 30 minutes or 10 minutes, or in a debate like this, and even this little, three lines seem really insufficient to me when you're in some subject, some problem that you might even like to talk about. Why on earth would you do that? Here, I'd like to pay attention once more to two things. One is when we talk about the right person again to live in a community and when we talk about whether anyone has the right to live in a community. I think we really need to say that everyone has the right to live in a community, now it's just really a question of how we're going to provide people with proper support, the right conditions. That's all it really is. So it's really hard for me to hear that we're going to talk here in this house that we're going to allow or not allow some form of service because we really need to bring such legal frameworks, and according to these legal frameworks and services and support that people will need, which people will need and which ones will be allowed to do. Through this one of mine, so I started some exactly '96. years, so now you know how many years it is in the system of making education, which person, children with difficulties and young people with developmental difficulties, later work, so in some segregating conditions, also works in inclusive conditions, and when you go through such a professional age, then you see inside actually what are all obstacles, which are all difficulties and what to work on. And that's why I think that the key to this home is that we are the key representatives first in this sense of what laws we are going to pass because it's one thing to support the development of further protection workshops, for example. Or we'll encourage employment in the open labour market. Whether we adopt such legal provisions that will encourage and develop different forms of housing in the community or develop further institutional forms. When I say institutional, then I really mean those segregating, those big mastodons, whether we encourage them further, edit or we say, develop some more forms and admit that these and this model that we have are not enough, but that there are still some models that will be and support that will be good and meet the needs of people with multiple difficulties, people who also have psychiatric diagnosis and who really require wider and greater help and other people and the whole community. Of course, here is the point and what is very important except for this legislative framework, except for the government's efforts that are certainly working and visible over the past 20 years, major shifts have been made. 20 years or 25 years ago, we really didn't know anything about this. The general public had no idea what a person with disabilities was, and not to say how much more, very medically ugly terms were used in medical terminology, I won't even speak. So we finally threw out, we finally stopped using expressions and mentally retarded and not to say another expression and finally speaking to each other in a dictionary that's very good, but now we have to admit that we need to do an analysis and move on to development. There's very little time, so I'd like to make one more point. We are currently in a very, very absurd situation. What exactly is this about? We are developing a system in which we should certainly develop, therefore, develop and further develop personal assistance. To develop personal assistance, who will implement it? People, live people. Most of the time, they're your wives. Therefore, women are those who support other people and are most often people who are in need or older persons or persons with disabilities. Today in this situation, people with disabilities have a need for personal assistance and, for example, organized housing and in an independent life, therefore, at home. I'll tell you that in an organized apartment, to cover 24 hours a day, you need to have 5, 4.5 to 5 people. 5 women who will provide the necessary support to the number of persons, these are living in an apartment for 5 people. Then you can now know how much financial support and support each person needs and how many countries they need to ensure and pay those persons. So, the problem today is that we have one financial nature to really secure a system of personal assistants, and the other very, very soon we will face this problem which is galloping would say, and recently we mention it in the context of, say, tourism and lack of people who will work in tourism, and I tell you that there is a growing number of persons, especially women who will be able and who will have to work in the welfare system, in the assistance system, in the care system. More and more are, for two reasons, increasingly more and more women who are leaving, leaving here or leaving their families and their children behind, and going to work so they work as assistants, guardians in Germany, Austria, Italy for reasons that these salaries are far higher because they are recognized here, precisely the salaries of carers and assistants are really embarrassingly small. They are about 3 to 3.5 thousand, maximum 4 000, and especially when we talk about a sector that may not be state-owned, and that is one problem that we have to admit and with which we need to count because soon we won't have anyone to maintain the system without saying, therefore, everything we need to do further, and when we have and talk about the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistance, then we really need to take care of it. Finance, people, stabilising and bringing people back. Because they won't have anyone to work with. No one will have support and we will be really in a bigger problem, then we really seem to have to go back to the institution because we will not be able to create conditions to ensure the conditions for independent life in the community because they will not have anyone to provide that support. And we really need to take care of that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82252	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a colleague of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82253	Dear colleague Maria, I hope I understand well because at one point you said that we have an important role here and that we must decide in some future whether we will have protection workshops or hire people in the open labour market, whether we will have this or that form of concern. However, you and I worked in the real sector and while we were dealing with this problem, we wanted those who are ruling to accept and understand us from a professional point of view. Now we're here and we think we have to. I think the profession goes on and that even today we have to work very closely with the profession, and there is a problem that all these years the profession is underrespected and does not exactly follow the trends that you have talked about that are very limiting to the development of systems and social care, but also to care for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82254	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82255	Thank you. Oh, yeah. Here, I'd like to point out, if I understand you correctly. So the waist here is the key. Here, you may not believe me, but before these early '90s, we actually had perhaps the most resistance to change and these positive changes and involving people with disabilities in the community right at the level of the profession. So, we've had the most problems and here are some shifts, but still today I'm afraid that there's this one resistance to change amongst people who provide support in institutions, simply because they feel that their rights may be violated, which really shouldn't be the case and we should really pay more attention and education and sensitization...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82256	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82257	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Alfirev, of course, is now in the replica a little bit of time touched up on everything you've said well, but it's clear to me, and I believe that the report is here, too, doing a report primarily on professional people, smart people and decent people, and it's even polite. Because it could be a lot harder. We have one problem that our defense attorneys are chosen by us in the Parliament, chosen mostly by the majority, and that is the majority of them by the government. Well, then we can see from some of the attorneys that they paid for it. They paid me to say, in a picturesque way, their conflict with the government, so the Attorney General is in a bit of an awkward situation. However, if I read this report well, I will say more about it in the debate. The report is very good. He's telling us a lot about our society. Here, for now, that's all. I see the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82258	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82259	Yeah, well, I agree. I've already said that the report is really good. Unfortunately, here we may have created such a climate in which we always question the independence of the Ombudsman. Maybe they should be 10 years old, say they have other models. Yeah, what we're talking about, and then maybe we'll have another one, which you said more intensely, criticism and another stronger review, but I believe, but through what we're reading right now, we actually recognize all the problems that we're facing. I really thank the D.A. for that, because without this, imagine that we don't have, say, one institution like this, the Attorney General, so that only then would it be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82260	Thank you. We continue with individual debates. Next is counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82261	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed deputy attorney, the esteemed Mr. Pekec and Knezevic and Mr. Jurisic, the respected State Secretary of Pleikosa and the esteemed Mrs. Bogdanovic. I am pleased, I have started with these greetings precisely to have people from the Ministry now demographics, families and young people, social policies, those who have spent their whole life dealing with or are focused on people with disabilities, and also on our deputy attorney, in which the focus is on persons with disabilities and everything that belongs to them under the law and how society should apply to persons with disabilities. Given the briefness of time, I will base perhaps two things generally on the report, and then one part on deinstitutionalisation or employment and work, which I think would be good when speaking about this report by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. I'm glad to continue, for example, to my colleague, Alfirev, who is obviously on this subject and has experience in people with disabilities, I've spent one part of my professional life abroad and in the Republic of Croatia for people with disabilities, and I have to say the following. In fact, in that time that you said, Mrs. Alfirev, so from the very beginnings of the modern Croatian state to this day, a lot has changed, and that's good. It is good that the Ombudsman also constantly warns people with disabilities about certain things, thus also making these 600 recommendations to various institutions and authorities. Some of them, for those of us who have been here for a little while longer, have been repeating themselves from year to year, but the fact is also that certain things happen, that they improve and that they actually work for people with disabilities. When I say focus should be a person with disabilities, then let me say again, let me also say some knowledge and experience, I believe that in the Republic of Croatia when you talk about financial resources, there are enough financial resources to cover all the needs of people with disabilities. However, it is probably so because of the lack and state institutions, we are passing a certain law in the best sense in this Croatian Parliament, they are subject to abuse. And that's what Mr. Hrelja told you about the number of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and I've been talking to roof associations of persons with disabilities and individual associations of people with disabilities found out that they're actually saying that the actual number of people with disabilities is somewhere between 200, 220 thousand. So we have somewhere now 511 grand. It actually tells you that those rights that persons should not use, will not now speak or quote whether that number is correct or not, actually they use by taking away those rights from people with disabilities and all those needs that they need to have. If we were to actually do some sort of classification of people with disabilities and all that they really need in their everyday life, then you would actually wonder and see how it's possible that institutional as a state we don't have as much political will as we actually put certain things in their right place and that we would do these things in the right way by helping people with disabilities, and you said, right now, because of some small salaries and assistants that almost in the future it would be impossible to find assistants to help people with disabilities. So, as far as deinstitutionalization itself is concerned, the attorney general says she had about 300... regarding social care for this Ministry and that they are actually concerned, and in fact do not bear the rights, and that persons with disabilities themselves should decide on their own life whether they are in institutions or whether foster families should not have certain discrimination on persons with disabilities or, as it says, certain segregation occur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm going to call on you again, Mrs. Alfirev, when you say that a certain person with a certain degree of disability needs an assistant for 24 hours, three to four people. In my opinion, institutionally it can be done by really specialised institutions and people who do this work, and I say it for the reasons of deinstitutionalization itself. When it was said that deinstitutionalisation in Croatian society, then the profession said, and we also had examples from the practices of Italy, Austria and Germany, when they said watch what you do, it is a difficult job, a difficult job, you have to make good analyses, foundations, prepare people, in the extreme line and local environment and local community so that we can make one better, better deinstitutionalisation. However, we are always passing certain conventions, let's say the Convention of Persons with Disabilities that you actually follow on your pages and when one evaluation is made, then it is actually evident that we have signed very many conventions, and we can't actually implement it in everyday life. Then we wanted to be more Catholic than the Pope, and we wanted to show that in a short time we could do deinstitutionalization and transformation of homes and then we started with the most difficult forms of people with disabilities. Now, at this point, as far as I know, and you correct me, somewhere around 10,000 people with disabilities live in institutions, through deinstitutionalization there were about 630 people and 187 in foster families. So it's a small number, and it's still filling our homes, our institutions. Now, if you remember, a month ago in a daily newspaper, we had one situation, one scene, one scandalous creepy photo where you see a person with disabilities actually sleeping together where he sleeps with a rat on a single bed and it's a creepy picture. I would never show it. I don't know why journalists force it that way, I don't think that's good. And then it was a person who was actually a pioneer of deinstitutionalization in the Republic of Croatia, about whom BBC, ORF, ARD, wrote and did reports as examples of good practice as to how deinstitutionalization is done. We received the same person, for example, here at the Croatian Parliament. The Ombudsman for people with disabilities wrote about positive examples in his report, and it seems to me for 2013, if I am not mistaken, that today we would crucify this person through the media precisely because of this same deinstitutionalisation. Why? I can now mention certain institutions and, say, persons, or associations involved in this deinstitutionalisation. When you have a good intention and you have people who really want to do it one good way, then it's always one story with a happy ending. Often, however, that is not the case. There are very ugly things that happen, in this deinstitutionalization, and in renting apartments and in people who are there without supervision and the very people with disabilities who are experiencing very ugly things. So, that was not to be taken into account, because of the deinstitutionalisation, I think the attorney-general today also said that there should be a little, as the Italians say, "kalma" - slowly, and should be very careful. Time is running fast, and I'm going to say something else about employment and work. So, in the very register of persons with disabilities is mentioned in this Report 240 thousand persons, of which only 6497 persons were actively through HZZO those who were looking for a job. So, you have one pool of 236 thousand people with disabilities who can, in one way or another, be involved in the labour market with an active policy, I mean primarily at the Ministry of Labour, at the Ministry of Education and Education and Sports related through professional rehabilitation, to HGK, to actually include those persons socially and to be useful on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. So, as a society, we give up one huge working potential and I don't think that's good. If there are certain obstacles, it is up to all of us to think, to remove them so that they can get involved as best. Moreover, education should also be forced towards employers related to substitute quotas that can be very well used, i.e. to be dispositioned due to the possibility of a job adjustment, i.e. use all those benefits at their disposal. Something about this was said by my colleague Ljubica, and I think she said it very well, both on the Committee and here at this plenary session, and that's actually how better we can help people with disabilities to make your report even better next year. Thank you very much. And I commend, of course, a report I didn't have time to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82262	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82263	Dear colleague Babic. So, I agree, in some things, and I can agree with you, but I would still say that I am not the impression that the D.A. pointed out that deinstitutionalization should stop a little bit or somehow ease it. However, I think it is very clear that this report should continue and be stronger, but what I agree with you to do, and I pointed out in my presentation, should be done one quality analysis, so I also mentioned the rules on standards for providers, the provision of social services, analysis and financial indicators to highlight the positives that have been done so far, and so that there would be legislative models that will be between one end and the other end of what we currently have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82264	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82265	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Alfirev, I quote: According to data on persons outside their own family, the trend in the reduction of housing in social care homes is evident from 2014 to 2017, but at the same time there is an increase in the number of accommodations in foster families, family homes. An increase in the number of users in foster families or family homes is considered the wrong direction to implement a deinstitutionalisation policy. Such a form of concern over the institutional characteristics of adults with disabilities is unacceptable and contrary to the Convention. So the D.A. isn't against it, but she thought you should go first with milder forms, with children, not with severe forms of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82266	Thank you. Before continuing individual debates, intervention on behalf of the promoter, Mrs Mira Pekec Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. No, we didn't say and we can't agree to deinstitutionalization, that it's the exclusive right of certain categories, that we've gotten into this process too quickly. No, we're not too fast, we're slow to carry out this process. The right of a person not to live in an institution contrary to his will is something that we must all respect and something we must listen to. When we talked about the state of institutions, then we talked about the knowledge that we were directly learning from the basis of direct relations and contacts with the individuals themselves, with the experience of life in an institution. When we talked about foster families or smaller family homes having the same characteristics and culture of the institution, it is something that is very important. So the fact that we replaced a large institution for one person doesn't mean that we deprived it of these institutional cultures of life and that's what we're talking about. And when we compare institutions and foster families, and how they are being measured and violated and not respecting the rights of persons with disabilities located in foster families, it is not only our impression or something that we learned in our tours, but it is something that confirmed the research that together conducted a study of social work from Zagreb. What we want to stress is that the fundamental feature of the right to live in a community is the right to have personal choices, the right to personal autonomy, the right to treat you with one dignity and equal to being yourself, that's what we want. We would not want certain examples of employee resistance in some institutions that have been deinstitutionalised or transformed into community service centres, we would not want it to be an excuse for us not to continue this process. I think that this is something we must always bear in mind that we must ask people with disabilities what they want and we have, we must warn that many people with disabilities are in institutions not of their own free will and that if their will is shown, it is ignored by either their guardians or the welfare center, but we want to respect that person's will when he says he no longer wants to be in one institution. What we have a serious problem and we do not have the opportunity to ensure that the person lives in the community because we have not invested and developed a range of services in the community, as appropriate, specifically for the needs of certain types of disability. The fact is that people with the most difficult forms and degrees of disability can also live in the community if we provide them with the appropriate and necessary forms of support for independent life. We, too, must view people with disabilities as those of the earliest age, when we have a child with developmental difficulties, we must think about how different treatments, rehabilitations and early intervention measures have been said in one presentation, that we will allow them to be productive members of this society tomorrow who will participate in the construction of their social community. In order to do so, we must work very hard in all areas, and one of these is respecting the right to an independent life in the community, it is a fundamental and fundamental human right and we must not ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82268	We have two replicas. He's his first colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82269	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed deputy attorney, perhaps we didn't understand each other, but there is a person with disabilities who can't answer you at all, and they don't understand whether they want to stay in that institution or in that community, so they can't do it at all, you're aware of that. On the other hand, a concrete example, the center Stančić, the most difficult form of people with disabilities, the hardest, therefore there are no harder ones in the Republic of Croatia. Do you think that an association whose documents I have in front of me, with 3 employees, can take 10 users and take quality care of them as a center of Stancic in a foster family or in an apartment that was rented? He can't. I assure you that he can't, I assure you that he can't, actually I've seen it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82270	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82271	Yeah, I wouldn't go into individual cases and I wouldn't want us to start thinking in a way that maybe there are some people who because of their difficult health condition and who, for example, are able to... to whom we can expect them to demonstrate their free will to want or not to live in an institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't want that to come down to it. As I said, I wouldn't want any failures in trying to deinstitutionalize some people to be seen as some kind of message that we have to give up the process, that we have to slow it down or that we have to sort of correct it. We are, I would like to return to the beginning and at the beginning and at the end of the debate on the Advocate's Report we must always remind ourselves of this obligation that Croatia has signed, which it has taken over by signing and ratifying the Convention. He obliges us to this convention. We can't talk right now...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82272	Thank you, thank you, thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, you should take care, therefore, of course, of the rights of each individual, but watch what is in the best interests of that person. There are a number of conventions, there are a number of documents, there are a number of NGOs who, for example, advocate the abolition of forensic psychiatric departments, which advocate the abolition of psychiatric hospitals. I fear that with one complete liberalisation and not looking at what is in the best interest of a person who has severe mental disorders, which, for example, suffers from schizophrenia, we can bring ourselves into a situation like certain countries and the West, but also beyond Western Europe, that we will have a large number of homeless people who are mentally ill, who have no insight into their own health situation and therefore we will have under bridges and by cities of more and more homeless people who, thank God, do not have so much in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82274	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82275	I'd say on this exhibit of yours, I'll just say very briefly that often times people who have certain damage, and it's mostly about people with intellectual difficulties or mental impairment, often have, believe me, long-term institutionalized, not to say more permanently in psychiatric institutions just because we're not people in a community where a person lives to ensure that someone controls taking therapy so that unwanted behaviors don't occur because of not taking, regular non-therapy. We're talking about these cases. And when you talk about the best interest, then I'd tell you the following, that we're in a lot of contact, direct contact with people with intellectual disabilities and mental impairment, we realize that people know very well what their best interest is. Their best interest is something that is the best interest of every citizen of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82276	Thank you. You can always have an intervention, thank you. We just have to watch our time, no hard feelings. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82277	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed Deputy Attorney-General with an associate, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, to commend this report. It is like the aftermath of many reports that come into this Chamber of images of reality, perhaps sometimes it is not quite a real picture, it may sometimes be a mildly tempered reality, but it certainly gives us guidance on what in this case in the lives of people with disabilities we can take to make their lives easier and better. It's actually the whole point of the mission and you as attorneys and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has done much in the legislative framework, since the adoption of the Convention, and here. We've had here recently and the law, it hasn't been a long time, the Law of Professional Rehabilitation, so here's a chance to talk about people with disabilities again. It would be good if we still had the law so we could talk more often because it's a way for people to regain consciousness with this problem. I have to say it from personal experience. I can't, it would be hypocritical to say that I understand people with disabilities, I can't do that. I understood for a short time when I went to knee surgery when it was a problem to climb up the stairs, and understand people with disabilities, it's really pretentious, only those who live daily or with those persons or are themselves. People with disabilities themselves have a number of problems. The first thing that has certain bodily damage, that's the first problem. Secondly, interaction with the environment, where we encounter a series of obstacles daily that we who are not in this situation are actually taking them for granted and we cannot understand them. And then third, facing prejudice, fear, misunderstanding. And maybe this is an opportunity for us to raise awareness of these things in people and ultimately that we MPs are also making better laws to help these people. We'll never solve all the problems, but most of us can. Here, now some concrete things that seem very important to me from this report and what I think from this aspect of how I understand it and what should be pointed out. First, we see that we have a lot of things done here, something maybe in the wrong direction, we see that now this discussion has developed, but be careful, if the report says that more than 10,000 people live under the key, so to speak, closed against their will, then it's a serious situation. We don't have that many people in the prison system today. It's going through the prison system somewhere, 6,000 people, and right now we've got 10,000 people. Respecting also the arguments of colleagues who have said that this may sometimes be the only solution, but surely it should go in this direction to deinstitutionalise this system. The second thing that stuck my eye in the report, it's quotas, because we have an increase in the number of people's employment by introducing quotas and then what happens? Protected workshops say they work well with the private sector. The Republic of Austria, a company from the Republic of Austria, Croatia, employs 35,000 people. We're talking about the problem of Agrokora, be careful that's your order of size. For that information I know, there are other companies, foreign companies here and as I've heard the information so far, they have no quota problems, and our public institutions, our even ministries, we have problems with those quotas. And that's what he told us in a broader picture, it's not just a problem right now for people with disabilities, it's a problem in general Croatian society because obviously some things may not answer someone to be implemented legally, so then we come into these problems. Such problems as rights issues, human rights, people with disabilities, exceed many professions, many resolutions and many public policies. And there's actually a lawyer's job, it's not easy, I congratulate you on your work and I know you have a lot of knowledge, a lot of will and a lot of enthusiasm to try to unite it all, to try to find some common language. And what I see as a defeating and defeating the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, on which the government must work intensively, beware of this and your report says that the inspectors are going to the field, where there are clearly irregularities, the inspector returns and says everything is okay. That's not a good message. I'm not going to say now, could I as a citizen say that this inspector might... because watch out, and here we can conditionally say about a certain type of business activity, a certain type of profit in these legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it wasn't for the inspector, he might have gotten some kind of bribe. How could he... Of course, we won't go that far but we can say the following, maybe the man isn't educated enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe he doesn't have enough knowledge, or he's just looking closely at it technically, if it becomes a ramp, if the meal comes at a certain time, and someone like that says in the report takes a cell phone, so it belongs to the human domain, so what's his phone gonna do anyway, he's gonna be sick of an hour. So there's still a lot to work on, the ministry needs people, of course, according to how many people can hire, but they have to hire people, train them to control these things because it's a very sensitive human right because where there's no control, no protection of human rights, believe that it's going to break. And finally, just to conclude, the report tells us in which direction we need to move, I personally think that the greatest emphasis should be on education, on education, on education, here we are now being prepared for a curricula reform which is true, but we need to see there, something more is the area of vocational education, some shifts have been made and it is very important because the rights that have persons with disabilities, which are actually status rights, so often they are rights and for retraining and all are used as social rights because they are the only sources of income of that family. There's a high correlation between the degree of poverty and the life of people with disabilities and then it's a vicious circle. It says here 70,000 people who have a partial working capacity, they're used, it's the same wealth of this society. These people probably have certain remaining working skills and probably have a good level of competence so they can contribute to this society, especially what counterpart Alfirev said, not only with people who will work with them but also they can contribute at the moment that unfortunately we have less qualified workforce in the Republic of Croatia. I'd be done with this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82278	We don't have a replica. Before continuing individual discussions, let us welcome the students of the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb who are now with us. What is the trend in Croatia in the last 8 years, perhaps one of them will be the new prime minister or prime minister. [[Applause.]] Let's move on. The next individual debate is a debate by colleagues Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82279	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the Ombudsman, the respected representatives of the ministry. This report that we are discussing today is a report that puts us before certain questions and before certain visions of the future world. So we are now facing the question of whether we will be predators of our own kind or whether we will be predators who will actually treat human beings in this way or whether we will understand politics in the sense in which Hannah Arendtt understood it, for example, when she said that the policy is an instrument for achieving a higher goal. Since we are all in this House of Commons, and since we are considering policies of current debates, it is quite obvious that we have decided to achieve this higher goal, then they can welcome something like this, because it is our common fundamental definition to be ever more human society, the society that will be able to define this unattainable human goal so far, and that the measure of this human goal and the achievement of this human goal will be measured and realised when the report instead of a few dozen hundred pages and a summary of the report that is several dozen pages again, will contain only one single sentence, and this is without discrimination against persons with disabilities because human rights are respected in the Republic of Croatia. That's the measure, that's the goal, and that's the purpose, the noble purpose, the policy we're going to be heading towards and the policy we're going to lead to. Everything else is discrimination. Now that I mention Hannah Arendt, then I'm going to use her certain freedoms as an area or space that many create, and that space that she created from many is a common space where people who are equal move, they are free equal and equal to their rights. One society that does not develop a common space in which many or all cannot move is a society that discriminates. And discrimination is strike equality, discrimination is a blow to freedom. Let's always keep that in mind. I can't say from this place that it's precisely for this reason, that discrimination is a blow to freedom and a blow to equality, that I'm in a state of resistance to the future referendum initiative, which is now resting on discrimination against a part of the parliamentary MPs and that of the MPs who have minority rights. Because you can't, in accordance with the principle of freedom and equality, bring someone into the same space and give him less rights. You've made discrimination, and we've made a blow to freedom. A society that has not yet achieved this noble goal, the goal of not discriminating that it will respect human rights, will still discriminate in many segments. It is saddened and saddened to read a report that discriminates against persons based on some of them, even though medicine does not advance the duration or lasting character, which is exactly disability. Because it's not something you can throw away, it's not something you can hide from. It's not something that's separate from a man. A person who is discriminated against, on the basis of some of his permanent or permanent features, is in a state of permanent or permanent discrimination. And because of that, as long as we don't achieve this noble goal, and that's the goal in which there won't be a discriminatory person, who will all be free and who will be all equal, we are in a state of human diaspora. We don't have human countries, as long as we don't create a common space, people who are going to be equal in 'rights and who are going to be equal in their freedoms. Because what to call, rather than human diaspora, this data, that 10,000 people against their will, by other people's will, by the will that determines them based on this, some of their characteristics, to be placed in a closed-type institution. They're not prisoners, they're symbols of our unattained humanity. The human will be reached, when we respect the will of a person, who determines himself and who is in space, I repeat again, free and equal people. We as long as we are in this state, to read sad data about, for example, children who do not have available early intervention care, because there is a logo missing, for example, that we can have, we are in a learning split, because how we can understand it. I do not want to understand it, but I want to act, develop, know-how strategies, which will lead to an adequate response to the needs of all our citizens and regardless of their age, but depending on their needs. This knowledge split is also a moral and human split and we can't skip it, we can't bridge it, we can't overcome it, because every time he rests, we'll forget the initial positions, we'll, by jumping over, come to the ruins of human sense, and we don't want to achieve it, and we don't want to do it. The task of all of us, our society, our legislation, people with disabilities, people who have no disability is to grow in humanity and realize the measure of humanity, not to grow in social injustice, in the carelessness of a society that rules out, because let's just remember, that some lack, some discrimination, it's not just a negativity, it's a reality. Because someone realistically discriminates, and someone real is discriminated against. The net real brings about social injustice and someone realistic is subject to this social injustice, and since there is here the reality of our parliamentary representatives and we are real in our thinking, in our discussions and in our strategies should come to this, that the reality of achieving this human goal is present in this common space, in Croatia as a space of human freedom and space in which we have finally found ourselves after someone... and human diaspora sciences and settled in a world where there will be only one sentence of this report, which is in Croatia, there is no discrimination, people with disabilities, because human rights are respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82280	At the presentation of colleague Marko Vučetić, we have one replica, colleague Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82281	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetic, it is difficult to replicate in your discussion because it is substantive and philosophical, quite clear, but in the part where I can understand, I am not a philosopher, so I can understand it. But I'd like to make one degression, you're saying, in fact, that the purpose and development of human society is to accept those different, to accept those minorities, because all of us in a given moment can also be part of the minority. However, what is confusing me throughout the whole story, and I would like your comment on this, technical and technological development is far greater than this social development. So it's much easier to make prosthetics, it's much easier to make, it's much easier to do, it's much easier to help people with disabilities, it's going to make life easier for them, but it looks like it's where and where it's harder, these people understand, these people accept, give them the same opportunities for life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82282	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82283	I thank my colleague for your replica, however, let us bear in mind that this technological and technological development is being separated in society and that society is developing and that technological and technological development, in part and the product of the legality that is taking place in society. If we look at the state of human rights 10, 15, 20, 30 years ago and today, we can undoubtedly conclude it's about development, but it's not about the final state of satisfaction. As a society, we must not be at peace with the level of human rights achieved and the exercise of human rights, nor with the state of development of society, but we should strive to see society as a social organism, and that social organism that gathers all individuals, all human individuals in a certain area, although this does not sound too humane now when I talk about individuals, but I want to point out that it is an organism that is also developing and going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82284	Thank you. We continue with individual debates. Next up is colleague Sonja Cikotic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82285	Dear chairman, respected colleagues from the prosecutor's office for disabled persons, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Today's report tells us that we are still far from achieving the right of disabled persons, as described in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For starters, I will agree with the Ombudsman that when we talk about people with disabilities, we should talk about creating and implementing public policies that will ensure that people with disabilities exercise their human rights and should not be seen as objects of concern. Most people with disabilities have extremely low incomes, any wages, any social benefits, and have a hard time living with these incomes. And what does the Constitution say? The Constitution says that we should all be guaranteed equality and equal opportunities, accessibility is what we are obliged to provide to every citizen, persons with disabilities do not require special rights, but accessibility, equal opportunities for work, for access to their home, for public transport and inclusiveness in society. Work activation is extremely important. Persons with disabilities can contribute to society, it is particularly important to ensure the use of social entrepreneurship and resources that have associations and institutions specialising in people with disabilities, which I consider to be an important further direction towards helping people in their integration into society. During the debate, we heard that the report had over 300 pages, that the government had written 21 pages of answers, but as long as we were talking about numbers, I will ask the present secretary of state how many competitions were called for to encourage social entrepreneurship, and how long we waited for 2014 since these funds were available, but the associations were waiting for us, specialised institutions are waiting, waiting for bad financial situations and waiting for over 1000 days, waiting for a strategy, waiting for action plans, waiting for measures, waiting for competitions, waiting for evaluations, waiting for competitions that had been held, but there was not enough money for everyone so they waited and waited for implementation. Bad implementation, they say. I'll give you an answer. You've opened 2 tenders, I'll say 8 million kuna in 2016, and in 2017, 11 million kuna. And I'm going to add a few more numbers, and I'm going to add 270 million kuna to how much EU funds are provided for implementing the social entrepreneurship development strategy. So I ask you immediately to answer how much of the €270 million is agreed, how much is paid to end-users, and how much is in the end line of funds certified according to the European Commission in the statement of expenditure? We know that you need to do more and more, you need to do a lot more than this report and recommend everything that is stated, we probably all agree here, but to be clear. It is evident that we are not doing enough and it is evident that we are not doing enough with what is available for people with disabilities. And since 2014, according to the social entrepreneurship development strategy, we have 270 million kunas at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82286	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a replica from counterpart Nikola Grumoja. Here you go, Nicole.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82287	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Cikotic, for other reasons I have not been here during this debate, but this since I heard it, this is the first exposure with specific problems of people with disabilities without any general places and flossules that talk about how we should eradicate discrimination on persons with disabilities. And what I'm interested in, and what have you touched in your presentation, what are the key problems and how do you solve these problems? And as far as these funds are concerned, projects and aids and associations, as well as persons with disabilities themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82288	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82289	As far as the funds are concerned, they're insured. Associations have been waiting, associations are very hard to do without financial resources, why is it that the authorities who have both persons and the ministry and the detours and are not all discussing the competition? How long will it take us to reach the users? So we're talking, many of my friends, colleagues and acquaintances, unfortunately, are surrounded by this disability problem. And we as the central body of the government don't do, don't do, but the funds stand unused, you don't call it, when you call it, you change the call I don't know how many times, 5, 6 times, you answer 300 answers questions because you haven't clearly written the call, and the associations are waiting. They wait and support, often by volunteering and goodwill to help those who need the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82290	Thank you. And the last replica of her colleague Ninčević – Lesandric Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82291	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cikotic, I am pleased that you have just touched on this use of EU funds that we have available for disabled people in order to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. But what's sad and good that you've pointed out is this very means that we actually have this whole time at our disposal, which is the means that we can and must use just to improve this quality of life and these are the means that we can get to what they're guaranteed by the Constitution, which is that they have equal rights. Well, from the very fact that they are guaranteed by the Constitution that we must all have equal rights in this country, and the fact that we have the means at our disposal cannot understand for which reason we do not do so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82292	Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82293	As far as inaction itself is concerned, the operational programme of human potentials has been extremely poorly exploited, up to 5%, and the funds focus on active policy measures. I don't know how we're going to develop civil Croatia when civil sector, associations don't get our funding, not debate competitions, we're all witnessing that one huge inaction in that portfolio, especially for the use of EU funds, and we also had the initiative to be at home. Yeah, there should be a home available and yes, we need to install elevators. Well, if the elevators are to be installed and we say that disabled people should have equal opportunities to get to their home, not to go on vacation to Hvar Island, which we had the opportunity to read from the report that as a recommendation, so people with disabilities can not go to the islands, but let them fly to some places, so it will be less complicated for them. So it's not to make it less complicated for them. They should be equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82294	Thank you. And the last individual debate is from my colleague Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed deputy attorney, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here it is, when I spoke on behalf of the club I failed, of course I say everything I wanted to say, but I will repeat only at the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the club I said that I believe this report is extensive, but good and quality. And that's what I said every year when I had a chance to talk about the report and in this assembly and anywhere else. This report, like any other, serves many as a textbook. Learn from it whatever data you want and whatever you need. So many help, many institutions, and not only in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the world. So when the Republic of Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I had the honour of being present. Many from Europe and from the world have told us, don't do it, why you do it so quickly, why you have to be the first, it won't be easy for you, it costs a lot, etc. Then we spoke, it doesn't matter, we know that we're still not ready to fully implement everything that the Convention says, but the Convention will give us wind in the back and in some ways will constantly warn us what we have to do. That was in 2007. Until then, I wouldn't be talking about the rights of people with disabilities at all, not in a way that they weren't, there were, but people with disabilities were fighting, and I'd say it's cramping, and I know it very well, in order to achieve even the least right, I'd say, accessibility if I could go somewhere. By the way of standard rules until the Convention came, the standard rules were our standard standard, and I'm sure that here's the state secretary's associate who's sitting here with us today, she remembers well how we'd say we're dealing with those standard rules that gave birth to a convention that we're doing more or less today. I'm not talking about deinstitutionalization anymore. I said everything I thought at first. It is our job to carry it out and move on with this process as best we know and as best we can, to get as many people out of the institutions as possible. I say again, not necessarily those who can't, and there will be, you'll see that one day we'll talk about it. I'll say a few words about personal assistants. Today's personal assistance of people who have the right to a personal assistant, I have nothing to say, they're satisfied. However, they are not satisfied with the amount of personal assistance, four hours is too little and I have to say it here. You have today disabled persons who are taken care of from Monday to Friday through services provided by the state, whether it's a personal assistant, whether it's help in the house, whether it's a physiotherapist or a patronage nurse, by 3:00 in the afternoon. Nothing for the weekend. So that's the problem. And in these moments, this is exactly the problem and we're solving both the attorney and I and the Ministry are finding ways to solve the problem. Whether it will be by extending the right of personal assistance. I guess we're waiting for the one we're gonna have to bring. Why do I say I suppose? Because at first, we decided to do it. We will pass the Law on Personal Assistants as well as the Act on Inclusive Adjectives. Lately, we have to say that many Scandinavian countries warn that it is better to implement personal assistance as a pilot project than to go to establish as a law. We'll figure it out. The least trouble is to make a law, but all people with disabilities have to say what they think, how and how, as long as it takes, eight hours, you can give them an assistant for eight hours, but it won't be enough for some. So we need to find a way to make these services the best possible way for every person with the disabilities that is needed to have support at all times. The story's over. He must have support at any moment. Of course, it's not like that yet. As far as the Inclusive Supplement Act is concerned. At the beginning of the term of office of this government, I told the minister, I remember well when I first came to the Parliament, she to the government, on the same day, we were welcomed by the problem of a personal assistant who was difficult to solve at that time. We found a way, and the minister said we'd get rid of him, at least in a way. The prime minister has given the task of not leaving any of your jobs until you resolve this problem. Persons with disabilities should not be left without a personal assistant. Thank God we've managed to solve this. In order to make it easier for people with disabilities in some way, it was our goal and today, of course, to pass the Law on an inclusive supplement. We had a chance to see, that law was already released a few years ago. Persons with disabilities gave up on him and did not want the kind of person he was then suggested to bring. Why? Because the amount of money that was then proposed was too small. There's nothing anyone could do about it. So even today, we need to take a good look at how high this fee is going to be, and I don't need the same lawyer and me. These are different types of disability. So I believe that we will make a good law, the task force has started to work, examine the terrain, make a good law, and I believe that the biggest fee that should serve the most difficult persons with disabilities will not be embarrassing, that it will be sufficient for people with disabilities, along with this personal disability that we have raised, which I have spoken of, to settle those life needs for which they may not have a service. Or they'll be able to choose, so when you have more options, it's far simpler. I'm just gonna touch more health care for a little while. I think we have a really burning problem here. And in these moments of these days, we are just talking to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, which will very soon be sent to a public hearing of a regulation that will need to regulate the right to rehabilitation, specialised institutions. So far, you've had opportunities to see back a few years, and even today, we understand that you've been waiting for the rehabilitation for a few years, and it's already started to happen that you're being warned from certain institutions that they'll send you a memo when you can come, so not to come, but when you can come within 36 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82296	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First is colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end of this debate we will all surely agree that the issue of persons with disabilities is a question of human rights, not a question of giving some kind of social assistance, a matter of treatment. But for a short while, I would ask you only, you are also employed in the URI, so the importance is, apart from the state institution and local self-government units, that's not exactly what we're talking about today, and I think the local self-government units have their own responsibility and they have to make their contribution when we talk about the rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82298	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82299	When we talk about the right people with disabilities, of course, you said well, the right person with disabilities is human right. Wherever we go, whether it's a job, whether it's a professional rehabilitation, whether it's a social policy, I'm not going to deliberately say care, because I think politics is nicer and that's the right expression. Is that any other segment of accessibility that applies to all of us, not just people with disabilities. I'll sort of say education, employment, that's what will give people with disabilities dignity, professional rehabilitation if necessary, employment where possible in the open labour market, where it's not in the protection workshops, and if we do, we've done a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82300	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82301	Dear colleague Lukačić, I highly appreciate your proactive attitude in terms of quality changes, and I know that you are very much in favour and you are very much working on it, and I would like to hear almost all the wishes that you have said or as much as possible, and I would especially like to see that what we have discussed is that the censors for the personal disability are removed for the reasons that the personal disability is for certain needs of persons with disabilities, and it is never good for them to be associated with certain income or income or property censorship. That's what it's supposed to be for, so I'd like to congratulate you first if you can convince the minister to move as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82302	Thank you. That's what we're done with, and I'm sorry. Replication response, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82303	Thank you very much. Yeah, I've been saying and I think that's what I think, and that's what all the associations of people with disabilities think, and that's what the D.A. and all her associates think, a personal disability isn't social compensation. We'll take all the census off her. I hope that we will be able to put into the Social Care Act all of what I'm talking about because the personal disability is a slow introduction to this inclusive supplement that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82304	Thank you. That concludes the individual debate. That is how I conclude the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2017, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82305	The report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2017, is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2017 is accepted, please vote. I find it unanimous, 79 votes to conclude that the parliamentary working bodies have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82306	We'll continue with the next item on the agenda. This is: - Report on the work of the Research Commission on responsibilities for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute. The applicant shall be an investigative committee for the determination of responsibilities for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute under Article. 12. The law on investigative committees. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Here you are, colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, who was also president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82307	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a report on the work of the Research Commission on determining responsibility for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute. For short notice, we'll just call it the Commission for the Immunological Institute because the Immunological Institute Investigation Commission. Before the very beginning, entering this file of a hundred pages should be noted that this is the tenth commission since the RH is independent. It should also be noted that the commission worked hard for several reasons. One of them is the very weak arrival of its members, so I must say, the commission had 5 sessions and 32 sessions in these 5 sessions, there were also 15 members. So I would like to point out that the average number of members per session is, therefore, four members of 15 per session. The average also, the average member was only 9 out of 32 sessions. It was extremely difficult to carry out this activity because it was very often lacking quorum. I remember one time when we even made four arrangements to find new witnesses, new documentation, so it couldn't have happened on four occasions. Also, there are circumstances that have been local elections, I remind you in the 5th month of 2017 and the fact that our Committee which is legal, and we know that the Law has not been amended since 1996, has been maximum for 6 months, covering 2 summer months, so it ended right there in 17.9., which was defined by the constitutional deadline as the place where the Parliament does not sit. Normally, this summer break did not make it impossible for the Commission to work. Of course, though, many MPs were demoted to come to the Parliament itself, including the meetings of the Committee. Furthermore, I would like to point out that there has been a higher engagement of members, I believe that even more, if not much more, we would have managed to find it, but we would have managed to cover each other a lot more. I'm so sorry I didn't call any of these people here more times. I haven't said yet, we've called over 26 witnesses, let's say the INA Committee, which was before us just eight. Some I wish I could have called more times, but we needed the decision of the majority, the quorum, 8 out of 15, we couldn't have it. Also, I would like to confront several people who have given statements that disagree in general and, of course, I would like to invite new witnesses, let's say Mr Robert Hoffer, whom I will talk about a little later or Mr Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Each of the witnesses normally spoke from his corner, as he saw and experienced the situation around the Immunological Institute. I would like to say at the outset that the tragedy experienced by the Immunological Institute, even the present state, is seen by the entrance of the city of Zagreb, is bright days because the combination of the first bad governance because often the directors did not have any managerial experience or education for such activity. Also a combination and corruption, so we counted 33 irregularities, of which there are also criminal offences and normal, it is poor governance from the state level or vague and undefined policy by the state, which through the HZZ, through the CERP, via DUDI, the Ministry of Health and Economy, the Ministry of State Property, but who at which time was responsible. We know jurisdiction has changed several times. So all of this led to the immune institution's current condition. It should also be said that several studies have been made by the director, some of them I will list, which have been paid millions of kunas. It is worth mentioning Mr. Benk's 1998 study and the study by the director... Milosevic somewhere in 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Studies were focused, therefore, on the expertise to assess where it would be best to build a new Immunological Institute. However, since such construction has never occurred, that money has actually been thrown away. And what I cited when I proposed the very initiative to set up an investigative commission is that the commission was not only concerned with the past, or it did not just cross the past, but also gave guidance on the future, or what should not be done and what mistakes should be avoided so that the Immunological Institute did not again find itself in a bad situation. So let's go, please, in turn. On page 1, we have a summary, as I have stated, of 26 witnesses. There are witness records on the 80th page. Most of the witnesses I unfortunately questioned myself, well, not most, but a good part, which I am also sorry, surely each of my colleagues could pull some more information out of their corner to contribute to the quality and quantity of this document. I would also like to say that on page 103, we started with facts or the results themselves, they find themselves on one 10-page page, and then, after the fact, come recommendations for the Immunological Institute, so I will focus my attention, of course there is no point in reading this page now, who is interested, can go through them, I will read first of all and comment on what is most important from our conclusions. It's some kind of way out that came based on our work. Before I go to that part, I still have to look at some of the indications that are on these 80 pages of testimonials that the Immunological Institute failed to investigate, so let's say there was information that the Immunological Institute was wrong in the hay. Namely, an object in Bezje was ordered many more haystacks than animals could eat, the haystacks were paid or never delivered or never eaten or rotted, meaning bad management for which someone was responsible. It would be convenient to invite Mr. Robert Hoffer to this witness who was a worker at the time, however, because of the lack of quorum it was not possible so that it was one road, one street for which we did not determine how long it was and which roads it was going to be, but I will personally because I am interested in the subject of trying to get to the truth and close that street. So it would be so interesting to explore why the internal audit did nothing, didn't even check the company's financial reports, so it was one department within the Immunological Institute that has to under the Internal Control System Act in public enterprises exist in all public enterprises of the Immunological Institute was owned by the state, we're talking about d.d., about the Institute d.d. The body was fictitious, not carrying out financial reports, there was order to interpret our witnesses. It should also be investigated why some members of 2008 were appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Immunological Institute and should not be appointed because it was then stated in the statute that if a person from the firm, an institution, which operates with the Immunological Institute, that this is an obstacle, that this is a conflict of interest, that this cannot be done. Nevertheless, we had at that time several people who were appointed who were not to be appointed. So if anyone is interested, which I suspect is of great interest, but there are many indications, so in these 80 pages of testimony that we failed to investigate because of the lack of quorum to the end and close, however it was sent according to my announcement, all of this was sent to the DORH with instructions and we can only express hope and I will personally control this process as far as the law allows me to determine certain facts that we haven't been able to do in our six months. I would also like to say that, on the basis of this, I am as a parliamentary representative in order to perfect the action of the investigating committee in cooperation with my colleagues, we have written a new amendment and addition to the Law on Investigation Commissions which would remove all the mistakes facing both this commission and that committee later on for Agrokor, the 11th Commission and which stemmed from the restrictions in the laws. One of them is certainly this summer break that simply paralyzes the work so that the effective you do not have 6 months than less than 4. We're also a committee that hasn't only questioned one event, one period like the INA Commission that's been examining two contracts, maybe a little wider, but we've been dealing with a period of 30 years, so there's a much larger number of witnesses. So let's go to page 103 now, we still have about 20 minutes, that's about 4 pages, A4, I'm going to factor out the most important thing, so we have 33 facts where there's been an irregularity. So I'd like to single out some of the most important ones. The Commission identified a number of cases of poor and irresponsible management of the financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute which caused financial reputation, personnel damage to the Immunological Institute or the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. In the first place, we singled out a contract that was signed by the director of the then Bek in 1986, now the deceased signed with the Serum Institute of India, an acronym SII, in the introduction of vaccines against measles, rubellas and mumps means only $35,000. It's a catastrophic contract. This contract, and we know it from the records that we obtained from the Commercial Court in Zagreb, with this contract, that Indian firm has been incometing at least $6 billion and $250 million in just a few years, while in the same Immunological Institute it has received a poor 45 000 dollars for all this thanks to technology, knowledge, so we are talking about how, however, we are talking about sending experts and education, everything that stands in the contract between SII and the Immunological Institute, SII has grown to the strongest vaccine manufacturer in the world, colleagues and colleagues, today. In 2017, when this was written, SII was the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, viewed by shaved doses, not by profit or other criteria, precisely thanks to our knowledge, our technology that we actually donated or gave for nothing in a long time, in all time we destroyed ourselves, lost the market. the responsibility for this falls on Director Bek who signed a harmful contract and Silobrčić who failed to challenge him, or who extended him. Also another particularly harmful contract that was signed, it is a contract with Intervaxa, also signed by Mr. Beck, envisions a huge 28% commission for the sale of the distribution of Immunological Institute products on the world market, so whatever the Immunological Institute produced and placed on the world market had to go through Intervax, so it stands in the contract, with a huge commission. I remember from the testimony, some executives called that firm and her mob director because he worked at the Immunological Institute. It was also an arbitration with Interwax because the lost jobs, which cost $1 million and a half of the Immunological Institute in 2002, brought him to the brink of bankruptcy. Responsibility is also on Bek and Silobrčić. Furthermore, we have investigated, which was, of course, focused, the case where the money instead of improving the work of the Institute was invested in the Pantovčak savings bank, so it is said in point 3 of the testimony and documents it is clear that the Pantovčak Savings Bank was not registered for business with legal persons, except banks, but only natural persons, and therefore the business relationship between the Immunological Institute's savings company was illegal. Santini and Silobric knew that, but they consciously moved on with such activities. These two organisations were not allowed to conclude either the basic business cooperation contract, and in particular the deposit agreements due to the legal capacity of the savings bank and its successor, which is an investment commercial savings bank. Also, the director should not have had the consent of the Supervisory Board, you will notice that the Supervisory Board has often skipped and that the Company Act has been violated, he should not have had more than 5% of the underlying capital, which is 4 million kuna, and it is business of about 4 and a half million kuna at that time. The savings bank was not registered for lending activities, in breach of the Law on Commercial Companies of that time, and there was damage of at least 10965 kuna to what the Institute of Immunology paid interest to the savings. Unfortunately, there we could talk about a widespread conflict of interest because both the director and his associates, and also a part of the Immunological Institute employees of that time, tolerated these poorly harmful contracts with the savings woman, why? Because they were personally granted out of the same savings bank, and they looked at one eye and it went away. At point 4, we listed one project that was a harmful project that was never achieved, and it was paid. So it's about running the responsibility center, the profit cost center, it's been agreed, and the project has never been delivered. No clear countermeasure has been established. The money you gave against is gone, i.e. the damage of 286 000 kuna at that time, I remind you, then the wages were a few hundred kunas, if the cumulative inflation of these 286 000 kunas is now much closer to 2.8 million kuna per purchase power. Also, I would like to single out at point 6 of Vlatko Silobrčić's contract with Branko Puhal of Kalinovec for the construction of a barn of 375 000 German marks. The contract was also harmful because it says only 132,000 marks are being paid back in the event of termination of the lease, while the investment work of 243,000 marks is not returning, these are also millions today. Another one of the bad business was buying horses in '94. and '95. In just a few months, the Immunological Institute bought a hundred horses at an average price of 3700 German marks per throat, and then sold them to the same person within a few months for 3750 German marks, resulting in damages of 180 000 German marks within a very short period of several months. Before I go any further, I would like to point out that a number of these data have been placed in this report based on the archives of the State's Attorney's Office. We, as an investigative committee that we have under the law, asked that the state's attorney's office, even Mr. Bajic, the former state's attorney, was a witness, asked that everything in the archives of the state's attorney's office, and as far as the Immunological Institute is concerned, in one way or another, to be delivered to us so that we could go through it, it was a lot of documentation. It is numbered in paragraph 30, including all criminal records and documents dealing with the state's attorney's office, which concerns the Immunological Institute, so our investigation, our research has been partly based on the work of the state's attorney's office so far, with considerable extensions. And, of course, now we're putting it back on for them to move on with some of the things they've missed. Let's go further, one of the key things point 10. stem strains of viral vaccines, one of the things why we went into this kind of research at all, haven't been evaluated or entered into basic capital during conversion and privatisation, there are documents for that. They were evaluated only in 2011, only those strains were evaluated by Grant Thorton's auditory company on about 25 to 160 million kunas, so that we might be able to talk about an inaccuracies assessment, and it was done by the profession because we don't know if the company that has something so valuable, is it having a negative capital or a positive capital, is it a big hole of 25 to 160 million kuna? Why didn't there be a registration of that property much earlier? I was shocked when some, including former ministers, directors said it was only there in 2010, when it began to be written in the media that this was not evaluated, that it was not part of the property. The opinion of the commission that soybeans were not assessed for poor governance, not knowing of the lack of importance of the same, difficulty in assessing such a specific matter, so it was requested in 2010 somewhere at that time by the Ministry of Health, to find a court expert, who will say, ie. If denied, if things really are worth so much, the ministry responds that there is no expert in Croatia, with such knowledge, which could do so. Of course the real value of these strains is economic, is as many of them can economically... in some kind of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's in the freezer, it's not worth much, and if you're doing a billion doses of vaccines, their value, again we can talk about billions. We don't rule out a possibility, a particularly favourable acquisition of the same, in the case of a possible privatisation that never occurred. We've had 6-7 cases, i.e., attempts at privatisation, and it's not excluded that someone deliberately left that property outside the books, that the cheaper he buys, so when he buys, he writes it for himself, and that's how he earns it. For lack of time, I'm going to skip a few points, because of all these crimes and everything the DORH wrote, everything the DORH wrote, we can talk about and that it's a period of war and a stop to privatisation, that it's necessary to ask to apply the Law on the Non-Depreciation of Crimes... and criminal acts from the privatisation protest, it's one of the Commission's conclusions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, other institutions will determine what may fall under those laws, which they do not. But what might be one of the strongest things we've detected throughout the work, I'll read you the whole point. On the occasion of the criminal application against Gusta Santini and Vlatko Silobrčić of 2000 County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, he immediately formed a file under no. 298 and July 6th of that year. It immediately means asking the Zagreb Police Administration, the Department for the Prevention of Economic Crime, to make criminal processing, in accordance with the ZKP of that time. In 2001, the County State Attorney's Office sent an additional request and later received several invitations to complete the criminal trial, so that a state's attorney's decision on criminal charges could be made afterwards. The County State Attorney's Office only received 6 years later after the criminal application, which took place on 15 February 2016, with an age of 29 September 2005. Therefore, it is amazing that for the works of '96, '95. In 2000, we only have the exact dates, everything is covered, so the documents, which are from the police, which is just up from the law, the criminal report in 2000, that the Ministry of Zagreb, that they're investigating it, and of course they're asking for every little bit, I have a series of rushes, give us the order we found, that we can go further, to see there's something, to press charges or to drop the whole case. And for six years, there's no answer, and there's no answer from the police, and there's a relative crime scene. It's about the one where there's no opposition, the one about the fake project. And imagine, four months. Once it's out of date, then the police remember, that we have here, we give you back what we have and, of course, the state's attorney's office, which they can say, the thing is out of date. So we have concluded that this failure, whether in this case or intentional, was designed to put this criminal application into effect and, in fact, the whole file, or to keep the crime unpunished. And it's actually embarrassing for the whole country and for all institutions. It is important to say that the State Audit found in 2011 that the Pharmagent must return 8 million kn, however, it was not done, nor will it likely ever be done, because the company was liquidated, and the only member, Mr. Skalamer, died. Director Tatjana Sindik Milosevic spent 12-18 million kuna on the construction of new plants in Bezje, which has never been realised, although a local permit for the same has been issued. So let's say 15 million kunas were spent, to make documentation, to create a new drive, everything was thrown into the wind, and it's repeatedly repeated throughout this entire time. Since time is running out, I'd like to look back on what's most important. When we talk about 2 Immunological institutions, institutions and companies, we all know that no transfer of property has ever been made. We found responsibility here in the state department of DUUDI, therefore, the State Office for State Property Management, which did not legal enough, overmade the document. Here, I'll read you our conclusion, the facility was successfully established, but the process of shutting down the company was not legally prepared enough for which DUUDs were primarily responsible. The Regulation should regulate the model of termination of the company, assessment, appropriate severance to shareholders, review of preparation, transfer of the whole of the company and the institution d.d. In an institution, it wasn't done, so DUUDI's legal failure. It is sad to say that today the Immunological Institute has no license and produces nothing, and there is only one doctor of science, famous whistler Srecko Sladolev. Now let's go to the recommendations for the Immunological Institute, so one of the main problems is unclear jurisdiction. The directors testified that they went from one institution to another year, from one minister to another, and it was not clear to say, whose responsibility it was, whose jurisdiction it was, and the years passed. It has been invested in projects, projects to create new suitable ones, which are desperately needed, which have never had political support, because they really knew whose support they should have. There was no clear political will, whether we needed the Bureau or not. I want to point out something here that may never be in public to say, therefore, the accompanying documentation. During the testimony, a number of times the problem of inadequate documentation, which followed production, appeared. The documentation was historically not good enough quality and could no longer be improved. No monitoring and non-documenting changes in production, even... It was one of the World Health Organization's objections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some manufacturing processes have not even been described and recorded by the Immunological Institute, but have been kept in the heads of experts according to witnesses’ testimony, following their departure or death, their successors have applied production processes according to their experience and memory. So I'm talking about that the Institute didn't have a new product for 50 years, and what was produced wasn't recorded, it was in the minds of experts, it wasn't standardised, and if someone died, that whole segment of knowledge would have disappeared. Here we listed some of the solutions that should be new products that the Institute might be dealing with, so one of them is medical hemp, natural interferon, medical products for the needs of diabetics. We also cited the need to protect whistles in order to combat crime effectively and efficiently. I would also like to say what should be the basis for further development of the Immunological Institute, which is the capital he has. In 2010 the complex of the property of the Immunological Institute in Rockefeller Street was estimated at 121 million kuna, 121 million kuna is worth up on Rockefeller Street, and in Bezje, in St. 34 million a week. After all the witnesses we questioned, 26 of them confirmed that the present premises were not adequate. Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. [[/Intruder Miljan Brkić: I apologize to my colleague Sincic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you not to disturb your colleague Sincic as he speaks.]] I am aware that how disrespect was for the work of this commission and for him himself, so is now in the Assembly. So the Immunological Institute has estimated about 150 million kunas of its own assets, capital, one of the difficult circumstances here is that some of them are burdened with mortgages, but let's also make half of that amount, it's really huge money that needs to be used for further development. [[Intruder Millian Brkić: Here you go, Mr. Sincic, an apology once again.]] Finally, I would like to single out further that, if possible, it is necessary to establish a system of production and sales without intermediaries because, for decades, Interwax has taken huge amounts of money from production to end-user. It's a short cut through ours, through the irregularities we've identified and through the solutions we've offered. In the end, we have the signatures of 14 of the 15 members of the investigative committee, only missing Mr. Prgomet, but since he was at 0 of the 32 sessions, the legal department said it was not necessary, and at that time he was already leaving the Croatian Parliament, he was no longer a representative. So much for now from me, I believe you'll have certain comments and questions, I'm at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82308	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, once again for interrupting you. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82309	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Willibor Sincic, here's looking at the state of the Immunological One himself, his obligations which, I think, were at that moment when I was a minister about 100 million kunas arrived and failed and seeing that there are numerous external forces trying to take over that most valuable part of the property, and we also see that from the whole investigation process it has proved that many elements domestically were very, I will say greedy, so they tried to market something during the term of office. Now looking at the latest situation, the city of Zagreb is trying, agreeing, in some agreement with the Government to become a strategic partner, do you believe that the city of Zagreb can bring this change so that this company can finally be managed as a quality, strategic company or will still need attention and attention from the Parliament and all other bodies?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82310	I thank my respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic. My colleague Sincic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82311	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My main goal as a representative and as a party to the Immunological Institute is to continue its production in new plants, to continue producing there, to do education, to do scientific work. Now how do you do that? The happiest would be if it remained state-owned, the best central state, if needed and local states, but we have negative experience that what is state-run is bad. This is not because it is a state, but because Croatia is a corrupt country re-netified with clientelism, unpativism. Since Mr Bandic, a man who is often in the company of employees of USKOK and DORH will manage this property, I can only hope that he will manage well. And I'd like to mention here an example of how it was managed during Mr. Vrdoljak's time. But I'm running out of time, so I'm going to try to do it later, but it clearly proves that politics is one-handed, and the other doesn't want both in this conflict and the resources, people, and it's wasting time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82312	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82313	Thank you very much. Comrade Sincic, you have done much in this commission, you as head and commission for all the problems you have listed and on the quorum, but here you have cited both corruption and poor governance. But one question I'd like to ask you, what is the role of Mr. Academyman Vlatko Silobrčić? You called him one undertaker of the Immunological Institute and a traitor, is this commission, too, do you have evidence, is that directed to relevant institutions? Otherwise, Mr. Silobrčić is also one of the party leaders of Smartly, so I'm curious now that your position is being sued because simply everything that has come up about this problem we must speak out loud and publicly. So that's when you said that and you have the means to support and with this commission, what have the institutions done and have they been informed accordingly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82314	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. My colleague Sincic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82315	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in answer to your question I'll just read you the wheel. Our 8th conclusion. The commission determined, apart from the works described here, that is, the misdeeds by Mr. Silobrčić, there are more inconclusive, vague, incomplete, unfulfilled, and the paid jobs that are difficult to count here by the director of Silobrčić on behalf of the Immunological Institute. A number of such irregularities were identified or confirmed by the HZZO Commission established in 2000. I personally believe that, on the basis of Mr. Silobrčić's testimony that he was too educated and too intelligent a person to know what and how he was doing during his directorial term, and since this is a period of nearly 30 years ago, if it were to be a persecution, this must be called for the non-exhaustion of the part of the conversion and privatisation or war profiting and I will follow that path to the end to see whether it is legally possible or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82316	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Sincic. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82317	Thank you very much, Your Honor, son. You have stated that the Immunological Institute has identified a whole series of illegalities, conjectures, withdrawals of money, and criminal acts. I would like to know whether the people of the Immunological Institute themselves noticed these problems or whether they were trying to inform the Authority of the Immunological Institute, whether they were trying to communicate with the public, whether there were whistles and if there were, what measures were subsequently taken by the same Administration, which measures were taken by the relevant bodies and how these whistles themselves ended. Whether whistles were rewarded for pointing to irregularities or perhaps bearing sanctions, getting fireds, threats, and lawsuits. Here's your lawsuit from Mr. Silobric. Is that what's called an answer appropriate to everything that's been done in connection with the Immunological Institute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82318	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Answer. My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82319	Thank you, Vice President. Here, when we talk about whistles, I mentioned down there that whistles weren't being protected, they weren't being protected in the Republic of Croatia not a day ago, let alone 30 years ago when there were no social networks, when the standards of democracy were much lower. I'll mention the most important whistler, that's Mr. Happy Sladolev. You have here an interesting testimony of his on one page five, so there's a record. There is also the testimony of Katarina Kardum, who cited a number of things where there was a breach. So it was that important jobs, that even some valuable assets were to be approved by law by the Supervisory Board, were not, and those who warned them not to come to work were even attempts to quit. However, specifically with Mr. Sladoev, he has received a verdict and must be returned to work and paid less compensation for it, i.e. those lost salaries, and the Institute and Director... is fined by money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's all the amounts listed... I don't get it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82320	I thank my colleague Sincic for his reply. We're opening a debate now. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82321	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will start this debate on behalf of the MOST Club once with a recommendation for all MPs and MPs who may not have had time to read a comprehensive report on the work of the Immunological Institute Research Commission. Dear MPs and respected MPs, please find some time and read the Report. I also invite journalists and the general public to spend a little of their time, download the Report from the Croatian Assembly's website and read it. Namely, these 110 pages are no ordinary and commonly boring bureaucratic material. It is before a thriller who, with a small advance of the state's attorney's office, could also become a very interesting criminal. I'm saying, you could because we'll probably never see that crime again. That's too bad. All the necessary elements for a good converted privatisation crime are there. In one story, the roles are played. We have one once strategically important Croatian company based on products that are the result of the knowledge and intelligence of local people. We have the conversion of this same Croatian company into a company of shareholders to all the fair and meaningful Croatian laws. We also have an element of mysticism in terms of several test tubes with viral strains of infectious diseases worth tens and hundreds of millions of kunas for which for years they are not known whose, who is using them, or how much and to whom they pay for use. Croatian crime cannot go without at least a few politicians. So we have on stage a whole series of ministers, we have one mayor of the capital, we have the head of a small municipality, several directors of HZZO, a whole series of politically appointed members of the Supervisory Board. We have a series of typical transition directors who know everything about everything except what they should do and what they're set to do. We have financial advisors, quasibankers and similar experts who give you the same transition directors deposited cash at a symbolic interest, and then they borrow the same money with a multiple interest. It's amazing, as far as you can tell, at least none of the principals were executed. We have some strange jobs that sell those mysterious test tubes with viruses on the other side of the world for some peanuts along with the total market share of that same pride of Croatian knowledge and mind. We've got a broker who, as far as he can see, doesn't need to be intercede to anyone, but it doesn't cross him to charge and charge his commission on goods bought by long-sighted canals and sold on his own. Of course, there would be no mistake, just in case the agent is counting and charging double. We have a series of labs that solves the future of this great stock society, and all for the prices that are really real little things. We've got something and real estate that's sold to our own, which are rented and refurbished, you don't know with what purpose. Of course, where the real estate is, there are construction works. And a little bit of crowding of private houses. We have some weird agency for drugs and medical products, which requires regulations to be imposed, and even when it comes to a majority-owned producer. We've got the Martial Directors set up on a party line, who buy manufacturing equipment in China, knowing that they can neither produce nor laugh with that equipment. We also have a couple of tens, a horse, a real horse, an animal to be hired for, to build a barn, so that these same horses would be returned to the seller at a multiple price. Of course, we have several hundred workers, who play a common role in this, as well as in all similar privatisation pieces. From the managers themselves in a strategic enterprise, through proud small shareholders, to months without pay and business conditions. Station for the defense of normal life all along with the observed, character roles of unions and unionists, and a classic whistler. We have a strange beak made up of a stock company, which has no people, no production plants, no money, no institution, that pays for wages, those few desperate workers who haven't left or driven them away by one of the great managers. We have a tender for a strategic partner, written for a known crash partner, when a project of civic stockholdership appears on that same contest. We've got a mayor who's generously offering money to citizens for communal infrastructure, a city that shoots at seams for a project he knows nothing about, nor should he know. And finally, in order for the crime to be complete, we also have in the story of the state's attorney, who has no idea, because his subordinates did not report him, and if they did, it came out of date. The screenwriter, director's cast, this piece without singing, but with a lot of crying, it's really first-class. Here, just a few known names, former Minister Andrija Hembrang, Zeljko Reiner, Ana Stavinić Rukavina, Rajko Ostojić, Zdravko Milinović, Andro Vlakušić, Sinisa Varga, Radimir Cacic and Ivan Vrdoljak. In the episode is also a former specimen of Jadranka Kosor, a strong and managerial advisory and supervisory team, from the academics Vlatko Silobrčić, Guste Santini, via Velimir Srića, Stjepan Turek, to Ivan Ruda. The report mentions the unremarkable directors and directors of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In the role of the majority owner of the Immunological Institute, with which they do not know what to start, Luka Vrban, Eduard Kunko, Stjepan Turk, Branko Malenica, Zdravko Lončarec, Ljubica Djukanovic, Vjeceslav Begman, Tihomir Strezirep, Sinisa Varga. Although the name report does not state them, it should not be unfair, so mention Zlatko Mateša, as director of the Agency for Reconstruction and Development since '92-'93. Later, the Minister of Economy in '95. And how they like to beat him, the longest-ever Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia since '95-2000. Then Ivan Penic, president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund since '93-'95. Minister of Privatisation and Government of State Property '95. and later the Minister of the Interior '96-2000. And Milan Kovac, president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund '95-'96. And the Minister of Privatisation since the end of '96-99. I finish this exciting list of names gl. State lawyers from 2000-2018, whose subordinates have either failed to establish any irregularities or have been forced to become obsolete by their March and pawnage. It is Radovan Ortinski, Mladen Bajic and Dinko Cvitan. Dear MPs and MPs, as I said, all the elements for good crime, are in this report. The only problem is that today we all pretend it didn't happen. That there is no law on the non-exhaustion of war crimes and criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation and that this crime story is none of our business. We're waiting to do this part of the agenda and move on. The story of immunology is the past, and the past is not the past. We prefer to talk about some virtual reforms, about the need for greater investment in research and development. We wonder why young people and not just young ones leave. We're talking, but we're not doing anything. We are simply destroying the last crumbs of what the previous generations have left us and we are dealing with the fact that we will leave our children absolutely nothing but debts. I'm sorry to say this, clearly and openly, but I'm afraid the story of the Immunological Institute is over, as is a series of other translated and privatized stories. Simply, some have filled their pockets, bills, and safes, some others, daily filling buses for promised lands. For years, we've been coming up with demographic measures to offer a thousand kunas for every unborn child. We're literally asking young people not to leave. We encourage economic initiatives, celebrate every 10 open jobs, as a civilization's reach. We write panegirics to every single young man whose projects are successful in Croatia, we bow before anyone who is willing to bring money and money to Croatia and ask where he got that money, whether he earned it legally or simply won the lottery. We pay the world's most expensive consultants to advise us, put our hopes into expensive lawyers to get us out of the unpleasant situations that have hit us and that we have inherited. We figure out how to remove the yoke of the top, we compete who will raise the minimum wage for a few hundred kunas more, we boast to every new employee, even though it's just training for work. Full buses still go to Germany, the national carrier proudly publishes promo materials from a new line for Dublin. We heard on Sunday that people don't easily agree to the colorful lies and that's our strength. The following came after we heard that we did not expect that all the cabbage of Croatian transition would come down to our table as well as the semi-scriptural one, you have to talk daily about what we do together and spread optimism. Do we tell good people who chose us to be stupid and despise them? That their opinion, their misery, or their anger might be of no interest to us? That they're not as bad as they say, that we've freed them a dozen or even a hundred kunas by cutting income tax? That every month they spend more and that empty shops are even in the middle of the capital the mistake of their sick eyes? I can only hope not. Are we telling them that whoever thinks that their opinion, their misery and their anger deserve our attention, is either simply not normal or is the enemy of that same people? And yet, I can only hope we haven't gotten to it yet. So colleagues and colleagues, go and spread optimism. And don't mention the cabbage transition, don't mention the Immunological Institute, don't mention the First May, CROMOS, TLM, DOIOKI, DINA, tomorrow maybe some other giant Croatian industry, don't mention all that cabbage of our transition because that history, from history, doesn't live, we have to look into the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the legendary Croatian silence, the Croatian people may be silent, we have been silent for decades, I am silent today, we are silent in the Croatian Parliament, and when we speak, we hit the wall of the Rules of Procedure, time-limited debates, one-minute replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedures that may be and may not be. We share each other's warnings, forbid each other to speak. We establish investigative committees and choke them first because of the alleged rule of law. And when we talk, we don't listen. We kept quiet about the Immunology, the ones who dared talk, we called them lunatics. They kept away from them, imposed measures, wrote elaborates, in bulk and insatiably steal how anyone could and depending on how close his party set him up. We relied on party friends or friends. And shut up. Today we say that we did not know and that we urgently need to do something. Go and spread optimism because there's no wonder, there's only one written crime novel left as we wait for reforms. My colleagues and colleagues leave Croatia on a daily basis full of buses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82322	I thank my esteemed colleagues, never the Grmoys. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82323	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm going to start with what are facts and not the way a previous colleague said it in his own style. So, I was a member of this committee and it really was during the period when we had a little time, but what came out of it was a vast material that was delivered to everyone and to the public and where you can see the chronology of the events that had been happening since the beginning of the privatisation itself and what should be said that the Immunological Institute is a follower of the Royal Institute for the production of animal vaccine against goddesses founded back in 18893. So it has a 124-year tradition to change over periods with its name and functioned then in the early 1990s as a company from all 8 sectors. The activities of the company were also scientific and research work and the processing of chemical products, the production of medicines, and also pharmaceutical chemicals, serums, vaccines, blood derivatives, diagnostics, allergens and other biological preparations for preventive and therapeutic use. So the main product groups were bacterial and viral vaccines, serum, interferons, blood derivatives, various diagnostics, regenerations, and allergens. So the very important action of this company that we have to say is now in the ownership structure of the Immunological Institute d.d. 79.38% is the state, so the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Pensions, Ministry of State Property, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, all of which makes up that 79.38%, while 20.62% remain small shareholders. What should be said is that in the previous period, this institution had a very significant reach and sales, both in the former Yugoslavia and in the world where the total sales were carried out, including through one Canadian company. At the time of the company's conversion, as already mentioned, numerous business premises were located, among other things in Rockefeller's 9 facilities and Gundulić's, and the economy in Bezje and in the early 1990s a decision was taken at the meeting of the Management Committee on Privatisation, which was the 92st year where the same was delivered to the Agency for Reconstruction and Development. Therefore, the assessment of the total assets established the total value of the individual shares and the basis of the valid decisions included 50% of the shares sold at a discount, and the remaining 50% were transferred, transferred to funds, that is, the basis of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises. How did the procedure go? It ran in a way that these shares could be bought and bought by employees, but they could also buy in public publication and all other employees of state administration bodies, in social property legal entities that were not subject to conversion, so there was a public announcement. We have to say that during that period about 600 contracts were concluded and the payment deadline for those shares was 5 years in meals, while some people paid off the entire share. Over time, as the process lasted until '97, the number of shareholders was narrowed down to only 368 who were then, during that period, demanding the extension of the deadlines and some deadlines were extended to even 15 to 20 years for a larger number of those shareholders. By 2002, there were only 136 small shareholders who were paying off their shares, so this interest was becoming smaller and the growing share was being held by the state, i.e. institutions and centres, which thus took over a growing number of shares and shares in ownership. However, the peak of all problems occurred after 2015. The Government of the then Republic of Croatia initiated the process of reshaping the company of the Immunological Institute d.d. In an institution. Normally, there was a funding problem throughout this period, various administrations, directors, etc. finding different ways to survive and stay alive, how to pay the wages. Part of the funds came in a way that the loan, the loan raised, was also saved by obligations and wages. And for that part of the loan was also taken over by guarantees, state guarantees, and normally in all these relationships the company couldn't, it became increasingly inequitable, although from the audit report we had seen since '95. by 2001, the company had a positive business and had profit and even after that, although business was becoming more difficult and more uncertain. It is true that certain negative actions took place in the sense that it was not thinking about how to improve production, that the right actions were not taken to restore and invest in equipment, that society was also devastled and humane, and then the number of personnel was reduced, but not only was the number of personnel being reduced, but the number of quality professional staffs that were leaving the office in this way, so I was the institution, since it was in one way the state, but the real titlemaker had never taken responsibility for the business, the society was eventually falling into bigger problems, so during 2016, after all these activities, it was repeatedly and blocked. As well as 2017. Before that, in 2013, we even had an attempt to take society into bankruptcy, so that it might try to restructure and turn into something more quality. At that time, however, the trade court did not approve. What should be said is that the additional problem, right, is the existence of a society d.d. and institutions, where it is in the Immunological Society d.d. The rest are actually complete assets, while 2015 is 10 months. completely all the employees, how many of them were then transferred to the facility. Then certain actions were made to connect these two societies anyway, because normally, one without the other, does not go. However, certain contracts and decisions on the right to use business space and equipment were also made on the acquisition of ISO certificates and stamps, which are related to the activity itself. However, a complete contract and a complete business contract and a transfer contract were not drawn up, so it was actually impossible for business to continue under some normal conditions. Normally, here we have shareholders, who are small shareholders, who have their own assets in their capital, and on the other hand we have no capital with which we can continue production and produce something that will bring new value. So, after all of this, in this course, it was also found that certain assets were not an integral part of the property, and this is also in one recapitulation after that and determines that they are ampoules of the virus of morbils, rubioles and parotitis. In order to, behold, after all these hardships, a decision was actually made on the fact that the City of Zagreb and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would start to rebuild the entire production, i.e. the production, which is important, which is strategically important for the Republic of Croatia. This is primarily about viral vaccines and medications, which are also produced by blood plasma kiosks. So that's what the foundation is, that this society could still work. So, what as a strategic company can contribute in this way, that we have as high quality supply as possible of such medicines and preparations, since it is known that, as part of the EU whose blood preparations, in the EU, are all covered by 40% of their needs for blood medicines and thus, and everything else, if imported from any other part of the world, is at risk of spreading infectious diseases. So, with this agreement, which is predicted to happen, and at the very City of Zagreb Assembly, it has already been adopted in this sense, the capitalisation which is the only form, that the entire society will be launched, the City of Zagreb, will invest 110 million kn, so 35 million for obligations towards suppliers, 32 for the launch of the production of viral vaccines and 43 for modernising equipment and drive. While, with the agreement and the government itself of the Republic of Croatia, there will actually be a model of how then existing capacities that can be used, to exploit, i.e., the modality, in which way, in fact, learns into some possible new and new drive or new facilities. So, despite all the safe failures and in the 30 years of business that were certainly, what we are interested in, we are interested in continuing production and that in this way, we actually save the Immunological Institute and that what is very important is blood preparations and all the medicines that can be obtained from it can remain for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82324	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Peric. Next debate, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82325	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Proposer of the Research Commission, colleagues and colleagues, I would disagree with counterpart Nikola Grmoj that this is a good scenario for a solid criminal, this is for me, these are great contributions to analogy of Croatian nonsense, i.e. key proof that we do not appreciate what we create and that we are very talented to destroy everything that is worth it because of our own ambitions. I thought that after 14 years of politics in the Croatian Parliament, that I had really seen everything and that I could not be surprised to see anything in this Immunological Institute Investigation Commission, however, first I must thank my colleague, Sincic, who chaired the committee and organised meetings and hearings that he was very thorough and very persistent and was most of the work of this investigation committee. I was at the highest number of sessions after him who ran everything, and some of the pictures didn't read them just in the report, but I think I heard enough that I could see one atmosphere over the years and the results of systematic destruction of something that was worth it, which could have made a very good job and a very good position in the pharmaceutical industry and not locally, but at the world level, but it was because of the ambition of individuals, because of the ignorance, the lack of management, the lack of management, the exploitation of their intellectual potentials, that no compromises with trade unions were done at all costs, such as the protection of jobs that were not needed by the Immunological Institute, and that those who had been necessary to develop it in an old way, that at any cost, they were born of trades with trade unions, that they would not have been able to protect jobs that needed the Imunological institution, and that those who were able to develop it with the world trade. So what I've experienced here through these hearings that I've participated in is that there really hasn't been a single director who respected the previous one. It was not the case of the mayor of Belisc, who continued, our current colleague Dinko Buric, who continued all of his predecessor's projects, finished them and continued with the new ones, it did not happen in Immunology. Everyone who came to the executive post was the most beautiful, the smartest, all-knowing, everything and it was my impression that it was happening so and everyone was at the hearing on the pole from the position praise me my mouth, I did everything right. And even those who had criminal charges that ended up under the curtain were performing in the same way. What was truly and wonderful and fascinating was that one person who was also the director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and the chairman of the Supervisory Board was totally suffering from amnesia, but did not remember anything, but in the repeated question she remembered that the members of the Supervisory Board were still receiving some compensation from 300 to 500 kuna, but they did not remember all the events. So the initials are S.T. This is the person who gave his statement in the investigation committee. I would not agree with what counterpart Nikola Grmoy said, we underestimate Chinese technologies or technologies far from the eastern countries. I wouldn't prejudge the last attempt to redecorate and raise a loan from, if I wasn't wrong in 2013, if I wasn't wrong, I wouldn't condemn him like that and look negatively, he has a negative outcome, then the principal decided to tear down a floor to get the space and get the equipment worth a million dollars, you know what that equipment would be for? For what it is, what I'm about to tell you is a very sad realization that one Croatia with, in parts of even the developed pharmaceutical industry, once developed for the needs of health care, today does not produce water for injections, so this equipment, not unpacked, today lies in Bezje, never mounted in value of a million dollars for the production of water for injections under a special procedure it must be, let's say not distilled, but resettled and constantly has to circulate in certain conditions, at least according to what they have explained there. And to understand what we have now, I would be happy to find experts who will find out from what is left, and the rest is something in a couple of deroute refrigerators, in ampoules, which are worth the estimates of experts from 25 to 160 million kuna, in those estimates, that there are people who are willing to make new generations of vaccines and a new generation of soybeans. Because those Indians, mentioned by his colleague, Wilibor Sincic, made the whole business into one handful of ampoules. They didn't just dilute those ampoules and create the vaccine, they raised it, because it was one special way or they raised a new strain of virus that was later diluted and put into the vaccine. Maybe he's not, because they say these are our originals, and that they're duplicates, which would mean that if there are experts, they could do something again because they say that if they're in these guarded conditions they don't have a duration, but I'm not optimistic that it's possible. Everyone assures me that the professionals who did this in the majority went away without talking about blood technology, that we're not talking about serum technology and technologies that were relatively well developed and then stopped at the Immunological Institute. Therefore, I want all the happiness of the new ones who have entered this story and the city of Zagreb, I want to have experts to develop this, but I am not optimistic, I will be the first to congratulate them if they succeed, I am not an optimist and the institution owned by the Republic of Croatia, which was registered in 2015 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where employees have passed over, of course there are people living in the premises that are owned by the Immunological Institute d.o.o., soybeans are state property held by employees who are employed in the state institution, but in the premises of the company Immunological Institute d.o.o. I think they get paid neatly and deservedly because they're employees of an institution that founded the Republic of Croatia and they don't do anything, so they're not poor 100 people, they're not guilty, you see that the union hasn't been advertised lately, and they get paid neatly for something they don't do. But I'm asking you, this story can't go on like this, but it really has to end, something has to be run, it's something I can say some stalemate position from which a solution must be found. I may say, these government negotiations with the city of Zagreb will succeed. So what I have to say, too, is the same at the level of impression because I'd rather share with you the impressions from this investigative committee than what it says here because these are the facts that you can always read and you can always deal with them. The impression is that all government garnitures, whether it was the competent Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health or Social Care or the holding for the Immunological Institute, did not have sufficient agreement and did not know what they wanted to do with it, it was always their component that gave permission to import vaccines for the production of vaccines, etc. HZZO, I suppose that a colleague of Varga will tell us something nice, interesting about it because he was in HZZO, they didn't know what to do with it and how to manage it, and how to use it in the best possible way, for the benefit of the citizens, for one renomies of rare manufacturers of this kind of viral vaccines and for the care of national health through the same care of blood preparations and everything the Immunological Institute has done. I think that here as many colleagues as Wilibor Sincic attacked the actions that they did, I agree with that, or are not sanctioned just because it was provoked obsolete because there were also members of the board, i.e. adviser and chairman of the supervisory board and shareholders, and they were indeed actions with various interest and savings. He can talk to whoever he wants, but it's obvious from the plane that there was financial engineering, that what the system institutions didn't do, we can only tell the state's attorney, etc., but they all kind of suffered from oblivion and they all washed their hands. What's been burned, we can't resuscitate, and no one should expect us to be able to bring the guilty to justice because it hasn't been done in 30 years, and that's why I think in the end I want to conclude in front of the club GLAS and HSU that the investigative commission for 30 years really doesn't make sense unless we want to be interested and find out how it failed because too much time has passed, no matter what fellow Nikola Grmoja calls on the law on non-observable works in privatisation, that's a distant story, and privatisations have gone according to the laws at the time and at the time, stories are much stronger than the privatisation itself, because the malversions that have been created by these privatisations, and there are responsible individuals, and I want to say that the investigative committees for such a problem and for such a long period do not make sense, and let this be a real contribution to the anthology of Croatian stupidity and let them be used to the fact that they all be good that they go away. Of course, as a member of the committee, I will be happy to vote for this report, as President Willibor Sincic himself said, that he had more time and that we hadn't gone on a long warm summer, it might have been even more quality, but thank him for his efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82326	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, esteemed colleague Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82327	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, as much as we are interested in the fate of the Immunological Institute as a strategic firm is also the number of present in the hall. This is where I listed four members of the Bureau of Investigation and one witness, a colleague of Varga. Now, don't say it again. The whole problem of the Immunological Institute is not only due to management, such as that, but also because of the balling between the ministries, the Institute and the DUDI which culminated in 2013, 2014, and 2015. And what a colleague of Varga's witnessed is actually the very foundation of this finding of mine. If you have an Immunological Institute that produces a product for human health, and it's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy as a company and DUDI because the property there is state property, then it's all clear to you. This composition is also crossed over to the congregation, and that composition is then crossed over to the Supervisory Board. And that's all. Everyone's got their own politics, and it's balling. And that balling was present all the time until this government of Andrej Plenkovic arrived. Today, the former economy minister, I don't know if he even knew his immunology was in charge, I don't know. But it is already expressing doubts about the future development of the Immunological situation. Well, I mean, a man to be baptized, a man to be baptized. So, I'd like to look only at two points in this report. It says on the page. 111, dot. The 2nd political will, that's exactly what I've just said in short and in full. 5. Blood preparations are a matter of national security and they really are. And there's an investigation committee absolutely in its report underlining what's really important and what I'm going to refer to. As far as political will is concerned, I have already said that there has been a balling between the responsibilities of individual ministries and funds, DUDI, the Institute of Health Insurance and the assembly of the Immunological Institute. But I must conclude that in 2014, the mayor of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb, had already waved from this pay phone with this material, provided the Government with a request and a proposal for a strategic partnership and ministries. Not one answer, not even from the Ministry of Economy, not one answer, not even to the rushes. So, he proposes a strategic partnership with the government of the Republic of Croatia to address the problem of the Immunological Institute as a company of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. No answer. We wonder why the city of Zagreb? Well because it is one of the stronger local or regional units with a decent budget and because they are employees of the City of Zagreb's Institute of Immunology. Is that enough reason? Is that enough reason? After strikes, requests, wages, etc., etc. Now, finally last year, the government of Mr. Plenkovic Andrej accepts the proposal of the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic, or the city of Zagreb for a strategic partnership and forms a Committee of 6 members, representative of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Health, State Property and 3 members of the city of Zagreb. And they bring in March this year, after 12 sessions of the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia. So much for political will. A proposal proposed to the government to adopt a strategic partner to launch the production of the Immunological Institute between the Republic of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb in equal ownership relations. Here's the political will. The city of Zagreb has already made the decision to accept a strategic partner at the Zagreb City Assembly last week, and we expect the government to make the same decision these days. I asked the Prime Minister that question directly this morning and got a positive answer. As far as the wheel is concerned. 5. - blood preparations. It's something that must actually worry all of our citizens and our health care entirely. When we showed the political will to solve production in the Immunological Institute, then precisely because of blood preparations, blood-derived medicines, which are important for national security, and the investigation committee specifically pointed out that blood preparations are a matter of national security because it is also a recommendation of the medical profession, and so far experience is best for its own population because blood is used, its own blood preparation from the blood of its own population because of the same biological base. That's the last time I talked about it, I wouldn't have waited any longer not to take up your time. For these reasons, awaiting the government's decision, expecting the government to adopt a national programme of supplying RH to blood derivatives in order to ensure continued production of medicinal products from the blood plasma of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, at the Immunological Institute, the party's club Rada and solidarity, Reformists and independent representatives, and I will personally accept this proposal and recommendations from the investigating committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82328	I thank my esteemed colleague, Rechimer Vardi. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82329	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a colleague of Hrelja's said that the current employees who are now transferred to the facility and are getting paid by the state while the property remains on the company, do nothing, it's true, but something is still reading,... you have on page 70 in the last paragraph described exactly what to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to mention a few more things in this presentation on behalf of the promoter, so let's say on page 107, I would like to point out, so it stands like this, the contractual relationship between the institution and the company I mentioned is not regulated at a sufficiently high level. According to Director Bojan Benk's testimony, the director's accounts for directors must be invoiced twice and pay VAT once more on the new invoice, which makes the damage more harmful to the poor institution anyway. Then, on page 108, paragraph 28, Director Mario Meštrovic, one of the last directors, signed a contract with the DUUDI under which the state should pay compensation to the Immunological Institute for the Conservation of Soybeans, but it has never been revived and today the obligation would apply to the Ministry of State Property, Liability for Same Relations and the Institution for State Property. So if something that's state property is guarded by a company, it's legally possible that the state is giving some kind of compensation to the agency for that keeping, the contract was already ready, but it never came back to life, it would be another financial injection to get the Institute on its feet, so that's the responsibility of those who deal with state property. Further on on page also the same, point 29, very important thing, the current one, which will have its reflections in the future, I have asked with the agent's question what is with it, there is no answer yet. The issue of ownership of breeds remains a central issue, and today since the Indian state pharmaceutical company HLL Biotech is pressuring for the fulfillment of the 2013 contract, the Croatian side is now ignoring the fulfillment of the contract. The aforementioned company, the Serum Institute of India, was once state-owned, has been privatized in the last 30 years and now is an Indian strategy that the other Indian firm this HLL is returning to Croatia where they have good cooperation and wants to take these owls. A certain contract was signed in 2013, so we'll give these owls back some sort of fee, but to this day nothing is happening and the Indians want the imports to live and seek theirs, so we're waiting for a response from the ministry, I haven't received it yet, it's something we'll be waiting for in the future. Some of the witnesses were strong on this contract, that he was good, some were against him, that it was a single validation again, and here I call on the profession which is exactly what it is, otherwise it's not about stem soybeans, it's about working owls, so it's about the ones that come from diluting the parent. On page 110, point 32, this is one of the most interesting examples of how the conflict of jurisdiction, the lack of will, was devastated by the Immunological Institute. The responsibility for the events surrounding the 2014 rescue attempt, 2015 during Meštrovic's director, lies on the inconsistencies of the then Ministry of Economy of Ivan Vrdoljak as responsible for the Immunological Institute d.d. for the company. The ministry sends Mr. Meštrovic with one hand to the director of the Immunological Institute, who is carrying out activities to revive production and move the plant. He worked hard, fought for the permits and everything else, but when all those steps were to be confirmed in the assembly, when the owners were to vote, and then the other hand the same state that clearly has the opposite policies, or representatives of HZZO, DUDI-J, CERP, and in particular DUDI, because we know that DUUDI is appointed by the Government of the Republic, means the same Vrdoljak, cancels the whole year's work of his colleague and crashes the whole story. So on the one hand they send him there to work, to spend resources, to invest in work hours, to direct the company's policy to one side, and then when it has to be confirmed in the assembly, the same state, appointed MPs from the same people, say he can't. So total absurdity and I think it's clear, this is just one cross-section that's been going on all these years. There was simply no idea what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82330	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82331	Thank you very much. The Immunological Institute is another of the stories of the Croatian society in transition that led to the collapse of one of the world's famous institutes and institutions where Croatian intelligence has made numerous, did, i.e. researched and worked on effective preparations, medicines, virus studies, had huge successes but of course everything that Immunologically could do, is being imported today in terms of what Immunology was doing. However, the fact is what fellow Sincic and other colleagues, he said as chairman of the commission, here was high corruption, poor governance, political influences, and that's why what happened, so I believe there was also an import lobby involved. The fact is that there are also high academics mentioned here, so the high scientific elites who knew and didn't affect the non-destruction of this Immunological Institute, and the fact is that it's the greatest sin. It's the sin of those structures that they knew, and they didn't do anything. Well, here is a colleague, Sincic, on several occasions and earlier as a member of the Committee, of course during the replica and said all the sins of Vlatko Silobrčić, who was obviously an academic who had obviously worked more in the interest of the collapse and personal breakthrough than in the development of our very important Institute which was the pride of Croatia, and not only of Croatia. What do you say? Another story where institutions didn't do their jobs. We can go back. The commission did within its limits what was to be determined. What institutions will do, i.e. Those who were supposed to pursue all these responsible? Whether the responsible will answer, we will see, but otherwise the rule has been in the Republic of Croatia, whenever the problem cannot be solved, let's set up a commission. I believe this commission that's done its job seriously, is going to end that parole. So, there was always a commission not to solve the problem, not to find out anything, but here, we established the Committee, but the seriousness and work of this Committee, especially colleagues of Sincic, regardless of what he stated there were numerous problems with the quorum and all these problems, but the fact is that it gave some results on these 110 pages that were ahead of us as a report. The institutions, as in other things, have not done. Well, here, we can compare it to the Agrokor affair. If the institutions had done their jobs today, we would not have had this problem with Agrokor, they would not have had one man who held the whole Croatian economy for decades, but of course there was also the Stability Council and the CNB and the Ministry of Finance doing their job, but they were not protecting and doing their job prescribed by law, and in this case more favoured import lobbys, interest groups that pulled money, and at the expense of the entire people. Here's the basic question what after this? We see here and counterpart Varda now boasts how the mayor of Zagreb will handle it, how the government will resolve it. But the damage is huge. Now we can't tell everything that's gone down, what are workers, experts, people who've been in Immunology now suddenly we'll sort it out. Who's going to be responsible for this? What's the message? The message is like all previous similar destructions of the most valuable in the Republic of Croatia. I would once again say that it is a final question, and I believe that the Committee has come to that conclusion, and I am personally interested in as a representative in whether this is all about being in essence, and we have on the pages and we are discussing all relevant institutions, i.e. the competent institutions which are obliged to examine these irresponsibility. That's the key question. Someone has to be responsible for this. We don't need to go back,... But the fact is that this is one of the big problems, one of the big problems if we don't respond to the responsibility, so no one is responsible, now the mayor of Zagreb will be the savior, the prime minister of the rescue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But who are the structures that did this? The Commission has made certain conclusions, made certain, did what it did in accordance with the law, i.e. with the Rules of Procedure. What's next? Next thing you know, it's a question. Who will be responsible for all these injustices and the enormous damage done by the Republic of Croatia? I'd like to have a colleague, Sincic, too, he probably has some information about whether anything was done or not, I can't know that he's talking about it. So, to say here's colleague Vardo, I'm so glad he came and that once again, the saviors of the Immunological Institute in the form of meaning, the almighty Milan, the Andrew of ours, and everything will be solved. No one's responsible. No one. The institutions didn't do the job, you give the solutions, give the money, it'll be the father's money the day for everything that's been robbed. Now that they've robbed, they say we'll pay for everything. Whose money? From Milan Bandic in his pocket and Andrej Plenkovic. Whose money? Who's responsible? That's the answer to the question. Where are these academically educated academics, scientists. Shut up. And I liked Ivan Willibor Sincic and us here Mira Bulj to talk about this. After 20 years. And to Almighty Milan and Andrew, they will give money out of their pocket and they will solve it, and no one is responsible. It's embarrassing, above all embarrassing in that way at all. There's a need to help, but there's a responsibility that needs to be answered. Who created their empires for the Immunology? Who is the empire of creation? Well, I guess the Committee has established something, and it hasn't suddenly been born the saviors. The wings of an angel, the father's money they give. It's a lie and it's a misinformation because it destroyed what it was, and it's the richest. First of all, people were destroyed who were professional, competent, and who were doing good for this society. And that's the problem with this society. Here, I'd like to ask my colleague Vardo to say how much Milan's money he's going to give to his father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82332	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82333	Thank you, Chairman. Here we go, buddy Bull. We're in a fight here. 30. state all those files and criminal records the DORH was working on. Some of them aren't closed yet. So, I hope it's not gonna be those legendary centuries of investigation that ends with old age. Here, I'll read point 30. DORH except for the above completed cases where the state-law decision has yet to open the case... On the application of the Director of the Immunological Institute of Meštrovic, submitted, there is now a date, an abuse of trust in economic business referred to in Article 246. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Penal Code, which took place in business in 2012, 2013 So this is another DORH item, exactly what we have for all of these items we have the exact manual number, all of it, that's how it's run. It's not over yet, and the reconnaissances are still ongoing. Here's what I'm sending the MPs to tell me what's going on, but we still don't have an answer to that kind of thing. There's another one or two of those cases that aren't over.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82334	Thank you, dear colleague Sincic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82335	Comrade Sincic, you did your job as much as you could in accordance with the possibilities and conditions you had. And the fact is that, and this is good, and that it will no longer be worth it, we will leave the committee until the problem is resolved because you in your 110 pages and in your work, with an examination of witnesses and all allegations, it is seen that there are responsibilities as to how you listed both corruption and political influences and all at the expense of the Immunological, to the detriment of the common public interest and this is a huge loss. But now the question is if you'll remain what you say you referred the question ate by a donkey wolf. Now that's a key problem. And the big problem is that it was just waiting for Ivan Willibor Sincic after 20 years and now that this has been brought into this situation, now the almighty Milani, Andreji, is coming to us right after 25 years of political governance, is the question of all questions, and no one answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82336	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82337	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, the Immunological Institute has 3 values that have not been destroyed in the last 20 or 30 years despite the attempts of different governments. One is the plasma of Croatian citizens, the other are vaccines and there are third properties on which the Immunological Institute is located. And this now attempt by the city of Zagreb is the attempt that the city of Zagreb has been trying to reach real estate in Rockefeller, selling it, and then Immunologically move somewhere to some other location and I'm a little surprised that the city of Zagreb that is minus 380 million kuna can now find some 100 million kuna new to build a new factory. Obviously, it is an attempt by the city of Zagreb to get real estate in Rockefeller and thus provide yourself with an additional benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82338	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82339	I don't believe my colleague Mrsic that just Milan Bandic fell into the real estate so he didn't exactly, he's a man who's going to help, he's human, he really wants it, he hasn't had until now the time to help the Immunological One that leads in essence, he has the budget of the state, Zagreb has kept the state let's be realistic. Well, of course there's something completely different under the layer. I believe that we will save these three values that you have said plasma and vaccine and real estate, but not that real estate serves as they are now in Zagreb for the subjugation of their political inexperiences to become contrivers, which is an example I mean all examples in the city of Zagreb. The extremes are connected here, the former extremes under Milan Bandic's cap, and now Milan will see, the all-powerful Milan solve all the problems with all-powerful Andrej. We should hope to save what's to be saved, but we'll see what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82340	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. He's not present. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82341	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, The Institute of Immunology is of the highest national importance, an invaluable institution for a simple reason because it preserves what is practically the most valuable that the people have, and that is their own blood. And it is truly amazing that we have sold one such national interest, not sold, but given to foreigners in one way that has just been unmarked, I believe not only in Croatia's history, but in the entire world history that just symbolises the catastrophic privatisation, conversion, guessing with particular interests, corrupt lobbies and all the bad that it created in the early '90s. A year, and it lasts to this day. To hear the data, just one piece of information, that something worth $6 billion was sold for $45,000. So you're wondering if this man I don't know has an IQ minus 20 that did it or that's the most corrupt creature on the globe of the Earth. Because that would be about the same thing if I bought this entire Croatian Parliament building for 1500 kuna, that's about the same analogy. Because the strains of the Immunological Institute have been sold at 140,000 times the price of what is really worth. And in fact, I have to explain to the public, it may not be clear enough, in essence, that there are ampoules of the blood of Croatian citizens through which vaccine strains have been formed and there is enough to vaccinate the entire globe, not only enough, but those vaccines produced by the VHO Immunological Institute have been declared the best vaccines in the world. And it wasn't just the Immunological Institute that produced vaccines, but also the antidotes and everything that could essentially protect the immunity of the people, and what then when we lost, we now have to import 20 times more expensive prices, and it's far more unquality than what we had. We very well basically, some say we didn't know what we had, so we didn't give enough attention, but the facts deny us. Here, this is the smart specialization of the Ministry of Economy S3 signed by the current HDZ coalition partner Ivan Vrdoljak, which clearly states that the health and quality of life are priorities of the Croatian state No.1 and within them was a special technology, i.e. all that the Immunological Institute could do. Unfortunately, the Immunological Institute, therefore, ended up in the hands of non-professionals, the Immunological Institute ended up in the hands of politicians, the Immunological Institute ended up in the hands of people who wanted to, in the short term, achieve their material interest, briefly, wanted to save money in their pocket to ensure themselves and their family. And that's your basic motto of behavior, of all elites, of any HDZ, of being SDPs so far, taking many and run, worrying yourself while you're here, who knows what's going to happen tomorrow, and the people, the states, the immunity, the health, who cares about it, it all can go to waste. It is very sad that the DORH has done nothing, that the institutions have not worked, that no one is responsible for anything, just as in the case of Agrokor, no one is responsible for anything. You know who's responsible, Living Wall, so yes, here, we're responsible. We're dangerous people, I don't know, dilettantes, naughty, young men, explain, we're guilty, here. Among other things, keep an eye on what they're telling us, here's Mr. Varga, I'm so glad he said it among other things. We are opposed to the vaccinated, we want the measles to come to Croatia. So let me know, Mr. Varga, if we're against the vaccine, why were we even initiating this initiative? So let's let the immunological fail, what we need the vaccination, that's your logic, that's what you're saying. You lie to the Croatian public and perpetuate it in endless copy-passes of presses, where in the absence of your solutions, it is in the absence of your ability to process crime that you place responsibility on people who have never been in power. Shame on you for that. You were the Minister of Health, what did you do about the vaccination and restoration of the Immunological Institute? Both you and the great knight of Jerusalem's grave. But when it comes to spreading lies, then you are the first about the Living Wall, that we are opponents of vaccinations, and we are not, because we advocate it, to restore the work of the Immunological Institute and to vaccinate Croatian citizens with Croatian vaccines that were best in the world and to be more fissile. And being us for freedom of choice, that's a hundred times a different term than saying that we're opponents of the vaccine. Stop spreading misinformation. What you are listening to here today is proof of our responsibility and concern for Croatian citizens. And we started this initiative and I want to say it. I united and congratulated all the members of the investigative committee, who participated in the work. But above all, I congratulate whoever gave his entire vacation to bring this commission to an end, I have no quality and serious way, I have no systematic way, as little as the commission that has ever worked in this Croatian Parliament, which is his president. And I want to say that we won't stop here either, the Living Wall not only will restore the work of the Immunological Institute, when the time comes, that we will try everything to do in that direction, but we will finally discover who is responsible for both the Immunological and Agrokor and all other cases of this illegal bargaining and corrupting. And these stories that now Milan Bandic, he, Ma Milan Bandić, will be interested in real estate in the center of Zagreb, what would he be interested in the Immunological Institute? He wants to know how much he can put in his pocket, he and his attacks, and for that Immunologically, he can close tomorrow and all the employees out on the street. That's true for you, here, and every man who can add up two and two who doesn't belong to that narrow circle that you belong to, completely separate from the interests of the people, knows that that's what it knows if it stays in this assembly, if this government remains in power, that this won't be a report on the Immunological Institute, but this will be his necrologue. Therefore, I call once again to agree this time with Representative Grmo, calling on the entire public, all the media, all the institutions, to print 110 pages. Reports on the Immunological Institute, to read it carefully and to understand what major problems the Croatian state, Croatian society, Croatian health and the national interests themselves are in. After reading this, we can simply ask ourselves, not whether Croatia is in colonial or semi-colonial status, but whether Croatia even exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82342	I thank my esteemed colleague Bunjac, a respected colleague of Bunjac, I would ask you not to disrespect your fellow MPs, although it is your democratic right to speak, but I would ask you to behave and use an expression that does not deviate from the general rules and be appropriate in the Croatian home. We have replicas. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82343	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Bunjac, just to be very clear. That's where you mixed up two things. One is plasma-derived preparations, and the other are virus strains. So the strain of the virus is the strain found at the Immunological Institute, which is the strains produced by our experts. They're protected by patent and it's owned by the Republic of Croatia and no one can alienate it. So it has nothing to do with the citizens and the blood of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What you're talking about is a plasma that collects, that used to be processed at the Immunological Institute, and that's what immunoglobulins were used to do,... and everything else that is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since there is no production, as far as I know and as far as I've seen from the media, part of it has been exported from the Republic of Croatia to a plasma processing plant and then they've come back these plasma derivatives, which is perfectly fine, but I agree that the Republic of Croatia must have its own plasma production and plasma derivatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82344	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82345	Thank you very much, Mrsic, for correcting me as a doctor. So you know more precisely than I do what this is about. However, what I must correct you in, you say cannot be alienated. Well, now we've seen that we can. It cannot be alienated, but it can be bowed or sold for small money. So the problem is that he is formally in Croatian ownership and cannot be alienated, but one person can decide to sell it for invaluable and then it is essentially the same to come as alienation. So it would only make sense to sell for that amount that's worth or at least roughly that amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82346	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82347	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bunjac, my replica had the same intensity to separate blood preparations, which is one thing, from viral vaccines which is the other, bacterial which is the third, interferon which is the fourth and other biological products. So that's what we've absorbed. I'd like to say here, to the wheel. 1. is explained, there is a cover in the documents, all the numbers are supported by documents, what is the ratio meaning, 10 thousand, 100 thousand times how much more did they earn than we in one job. I think if it's double someone's making it already on the questionnaire, but with so many zeroes, that's total crazy. However, it should be said, it's somewhere in the '90s. In the year, the Immunological Institute had large incomes because the JNA at the time bought large supplies of anti-thetanus vaccines because it was preparing for war. So there was a lot of money at the Immunological Institute. One of the ways he devastated himself was to say, the directors had a salary of 20 thousand kuna, according to testimony, and workers at that time were about a hundred kunas. So you can imagine how much money was coming out that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82348	I thank my colleague Sincic. Answer. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82349	Thank you very much. Representative Sincic, so it is one model that is also established in the Republic of Croatia that companies that have political backdrops first increase their salaries to unsuspected heights, and then lower their workers to a minimumer or worse, share their cancellations. So, it's very sad to read that in the media today, certain public companies executives have salaries and 100 thousand kunas, have bonuses of millions, have secured jobs of 5, 6 years after they get fired, and even when their company does business with losses. So it simply shows what the purpose is, therefore, to oversee policy over national companies. Simply secure yourself, and this other thing is, it's going to be, and it's usually going to be really bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82350	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next replica is a respected colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, here I am sitting in about the same composition that we sat in a few months ago when we talked about amending and supplementing the Law on the control of infectious diseases, when... propose the suspension of mandatory vaccination in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if I'm lying, he's lying to the whole hall. Although we do know very little about how the debate was going back then, but here, I'll just say that I don't lie when I talk about being vaccinated in the Republic of Croatia in the current state of society, that it must continue to be mandatory, and whether I support the Immunological Institute or not, I will talk more about my individual debate and thank the Vice President for giving you the duty to warn you of your trip to epithets towards me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82352	I thank my colleagues, Varga, for the replica. Answer. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82353	Thank you very much. Agent Varga, so you reminded me of that vaccination debate. Now you're protecting yourself with Mr. Brkic. He's otherwise known as a man who normally protects the SDP, at least on Face. So you called us cavemen in that debate. Then you didn't call for a culture of manners and we didn't ask for Mr. Brkic's protection. But even after those insults, you continued in every other press conference to say that we are opponents of vaccination. The living wall is not an opponent of vaccination. The living wall is for freedom of choice which has been accepted in 14 European states, including Germany, which I believe has far better regulated health care than Croatia. And it bothers you that here in Zagreb, I don't know, two people don't split for some reason, but you don't mind that 2 million German tourists coming to the Adriatic, and from a country which, therefore, has no mandatory vaccination. Are the Germans the same cavemen as you spoke of us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82354	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. I am not here to protect anyone but to make sure that the Assembly's session is based on the Rules of Procedure, so also when something else is directed towards you, then the same will be relevant to you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82355	Dear counterpart Bunjac, my predecessors in the replica have already clarified the question, the distinction between blood preparations and viral vaccines, so I won't waste any time there. I just want to tell you that the comparison between the price that sold one ampoule even though I claim it was sold below the price, could have been gained more, and the profits of the company that made the vaccines and the new soybeans, it doesn't stand, we could have done it, that's their success, their sacrifice and their breakthrough in the new conquest of the world's big Indian market and they created capital, we could have done it. So there may be a mistake but the comparison of these two prices doesn't stand. And secondly, I thank Mr. Sincic, but he didn't sacrifice his vacation, we sacrificed a long warm summer, and he doesn't have the right to go on vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82356	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82357	All right, MP Hrelja, you're saying that at that point those ampoules weren't worth that much, but they did make so much money, so they were potentially worth it. In any case, even at the time they were sold, at least according to the report I read, they were worth far more than they had been given. So I don't understand if you're selling something far below the price, what's your motive? Your motive is only logical for me to get something under the table. So basically we can suspect that there was another reason why this was happening, a reason that wasn't invisible to us, which could possibly only be determined by that famous law on the origin of the property that was abolished the first day that HDZ came to power. You should consider revoking that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82358	Thank you, Comrade Bunjac, for your reply to the replica. I'm setting a break until 6:00 and 15 minutes when we get back to work. It's 17.50 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.15 HOURS]] Individual debate, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82360	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's no proposer here, never mind. It was said here in a debate from a colleague that the work of the Immunological Institute in terms of management structures and management has constantly followed the conflict of DUUDI, HZZO, various ministries that had in the portfolio of the Immunological Institute. I don't believe you in that theory. I believe that it is a permitted game and that the whole time in these structures has played a game to propose a solution, i.e. give an idea, and the other side will block the solution and then in these structures there was a consideration of who is more powerful, who is stronger, who is smarter. In this structure, this 3 has an interest in real estate, has an interest in import lobbies, pharmaceutical industries, and at least has an interest in its own production because it requires perseverance, work, sacrifice, long-term denial. So the strategic position of the Immunological Institute was never defined, regardless of which government was in power, but it was constantly playing this game of conflict of jurisdiction, I wanted, but they didn't give me these others, here they wanted these two, but this third one was obstructed. Of course, some people at first have earned it, and after starting in these last 10 years, some others have earned it, those who have produced imports of all this stuff that the Immunological Institute used to do. Therefore, I would like to thank all the colleagues and colleagues who have participated in this work of the investigative commission, and I think that this is also a life lesson for us, unfortunately we will not be able to help the Immunological Institute much, and I would like this production to come back to life, but unfortunately, I would be happy to experience it, but again, I am not optimistic, we have one pleasure of a common journey within this investigative committee, but unfortunately no satisfaction of the results. We didn't think we'd be investigators, we'd be cops, we'd be facts, we found them, unfortunately a lot of processes are already closed, covered, and new ones don't reveal old things. I could agree with my colleague, Bunjec, that perhaps more than all those laws on irregularities in privatisation and not statutes would really help one law on the origin of property, he would say a lot about the past 27 and more years in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82361	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So today we have a report from the commission and the commission has done a chronology that's been going on at the Immunological Institute, and it's a good chronology that's been going on, which has been happening in the Immunology since the '90s, and it's been happening here. The problem of the Immunological Institute begins in the 1990s when academics Silobrčić and Minister Hebrang decided to privatise the Immunological Institute. And then the target was vaccines because it was at that time vaccines that were recognised by the United Nations and with these vaccines, except for our children, were vaccinated by children in Africa, Asia and the Immunological Institute on very positive grounds, there were incomes and there was obviously a great bite to privatize it and then put this Immunological Institute under private hands. However, the endurance of workers and people outside the Immunological Institute did not happen, but the damage was done to the Immunological Institute because it was not further developed, nor was it allowed for the Immunological Institute to be what it is and therefore, with time of incompetence or ability, the management of various different production permits were lost, export licences were lost, especially vaccines, did not improve the process itself of production of plasma derivatives, although it must be said that the plasma of Croatian voluntary blood donors is one of the safest and best in Europe, our blood plasma is safe and that there in the '80s kept us from the AIDS epidemic in Croatia in patients who suffer from a severe blood disease called haemophilia, a lack of factor 8 or a factor 9. Everywhere in the world, the incidence of AIDS in these patients was extremely high, and in Croatia it was one of the lowest precisely because we used preparations from our plasma, so from our plasma, from plasma from voluntary donors from Croatia. There were several ways to resolve the problem of the Immunological Institute, and this commission also did not give the result that should be expected, which is to give guidance on how to deal with it. The commission has determined whether there will be any criminal charges, whether they will be obsolete, will not be, we will see, but remains the problem of the Immunological One. There's still a problem, what I said, how to preserve the 3 values that has immune. De facto, those 3 values kept him from tearing him apart in that privatisation in '90. And that's plasma, vaccines and real estate. Commissions were founded, the first commission to work in Immunology, looking at how to save the Immunological Institute and improve production did not produce any results. And there's Chercilova if you don't know what you're going to do, make a commission and then you're going to put it under the rug, the thing will eventually calm down, but the Immunological Institute is an institution that's too important for Croatia, and that's something that this House needs to discuss, but I'm saying, it probably couldn't even get a conclusion or a suggestion on what to do next with the Immunological Institute? What's the fact is that the Immunological Institute has a perspective. What is the fact that the Immunological Institute needs Croatia, what is the fact that Croatia needs to be prepared from Croatian plasma. What is the fact that Croatia needs its vaccines, because these are one of the best strains, with the least side effects. And thirdly, the immune system must develop at some new location. At this location in Rockefeller's it's practically impossible, because it's impossible to meet all those cabins that require good manufacturing practice and it's simply in those old buildings in Rockefeller's is practically impossible. And on those three premises, 4 should build the future of the Immunological Institute, and the future of the Immunological Institute is obvious to be a state institute. To be the state-owned Institute, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The mistake was made in 2012 when he was Minister of Health Rajko Ostojic and Economy Minister Cacic when the Immunological Institute, which was a public health institution, was suddenly found as a company in the Ministry of Economy and that is a mistake. That mistake was trying to make it right after that, but apparently never after that, to get the Immunological Institute on its good feet. Thanks to the workers, the synikat, it's been held immunologically so far, but what have we got? We now have the Immunology which is a public health institution, where the workers and the brand and we have the equipment of the building and everything else left in the Immunological Institute d.d. What's the way, what I think these things need to be solved by one special Law on the Immunological Institute, because I think that's the only way we can skip all these problems we've got so far. Because without it, the Immunological Institute will be sentenced to further extinction. And this second commission, which is here, is announced in the media, as a rescue for the Immunological Institute, is not a rescue. The aim of this agreement between the city and government is only to master those properties, i.e. land in Rockefeller, worth hundreds of millions of kunas. And it's a little strange that the City of Zagreb, which, according to the latest reports, is at a loss of 380 million, could be a financier who will find an additional 100 million kn, to run some kind of production. The city of Zagreb has neither management nor personnel who can start it. And that's what you need to know. If this continues, and the Government agrees, what will happen, that the Immunological Institute will disappear, workers will be employed in the City of Zagreb, Holding or teaching of the Andrija Stampar Institute, and the property will then be sold to those who give the highest price and thus will be earned, and we will not benefit for the state and citizens. Again, the value of the Immunological Institute, vaccines, serums, real estate, blood plasma is something that needs to be preserved, which the state and government need to understand, and now is the time, that when economic recovery is, the government stops around it and that the State Immunological Institute is established. All the other remarks that go along with this is expensive, that it's cheaper to export plasma and then get preparations from Austria or some other country, that it's better to import other people's vaccines, that it's a lot of importing other people's serums, it falls into the water, because it's all expensive. Immunologically, if it is placed on its feet, in 5 or 10 years it will return everything that has been invested in it and not only that, but Croatia will be a country that will have its plasma, its vaccines and that will have what it had before the '90s. And that's the Immunological Institute that was famous at the world level. We don't have to let us destroy what's still left in the Immunological Institute, and I think this commission has been very good at detecting problems, but it remains unclear what remains and how it continues with the Immunological Institute. What I'm saying again is it's an important institution, to bleed it out in such a way, to shut it down, just for some of the properties that are in Rockefeller's. And they probably listen to the Immunological Workers today and expect us to give them a solution and give them hope that they won't stay on the road and give them hope that the Immunological will continue, and the only hope is the firm attitude of this House, but also the Government that the Immunological must remain on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82363	Thank you, dear fellow Mrsic. Next debate, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82364	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, here's the clue exactly what you said and I wanted to touch it exactly that the value of the Immunological Institute is huge, and primarily when we start from the plasma we come to the plasma in a way that we actually collect it from voluntary blood donors and that plasma that is actually human gold and that we should be the driver of everything to create from it what we need and what it serves. I must point out that plasma is stored under certain conditions and now, conditions, temperatures and everything else, you know better as doctors and so on, and now certain resources are being spent to preserve it as such, but it also has its own lifetime. There we have in our findings is said through the commission that the plasma was even partly sold and sold etc., in fact the one that was already at the end of the term and served to use, or the funds from that were spent to settle obligations to suppliers and so on. I would like to point out that during 2013, you will well remember that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has actually denied granting a production permit for the production of medicinal products from human blood, human plasma and serum animal origin and giving the same authorisation for the production of bacterial vaccines. In order to make 2015. The Ministry of Health actually abolished it and returned it to the re-processing process, which means that there were problems at the time and still there are that the conditions in which all these serums and drugs are produced are actually not suitable, and that is why we were all in one way and we were constipated that it was not taken into account and that, regardless of who was the management, who was the supervision, did not ensure the continuity of the business, and thus their jobs and on the side of what is, which is the Institute as the Institute with all the qualities and importance of both the important and strategic and all the way for us and for the Republic. What I still have to say is that the rest is part of those shares of small shareholders that need to actually be paid off. In this model proposed now, the share of the city itself would be 50:50 assuming that all small shareholders would be paid off because don't forget that the Immunological Institute, its shares listed on the stock market. Therefore, if it is actually to be excluded from the stock market, all of these assumptions must be created and paid off by shareholders who will thus agree to a certain price according to what the quotation is. What is good at all is that this plasma, what I have mentioned before, is important that we cannot ignore the fact that our area is dependent on and very significant that we have so much plasma, and that the EU does not have enough or that it meets 40% of its needs with its plasma, and the rest actually buys or imports from other areas, which is then a much greater risk of spreading infectious diseases, which you have already mentioned in your discussions. So what's also important is that normally from the capacities that are now and which are known, the business premises in Rockefeller and Bez, there was another ownership dispute. Here we know that there is some co-ownership in terms of using the capacities of others, and especially I think of the Croatian Institute of Public Health along with Immunological, but all this is decisive if there are quality documents, and we have seen from what has been delivered to us and by the estimates that it is, it can be separated, certain that certain production cannot continue under these existing conditions, certainly the technological conditions require new solutions, but I don't think that should be the basic motive of what is mentioned to get hold of only business spaces. Yes, they have their values, certainly, that the one who invests in this will in part want to replace their share of capital that it invests, but in any case, the motive must be what we said vaccines, plasma, should certainly be the values that mean a great deal to us for strategic thinking as a state, and that in another way, it will be possible for new capacities to be able, built, to continue production, to employ a part of the people and to develop that technology themselves. When we were talking about placement, I don't know in India, that when we compare the Indian market of a billion and a half inhabitants, then surely our market and what we are able to do, I'm not saying that it wasn't wrong in a way that it wasn't tending to win that market, that we're placing a finished product, not selling the vaccine, therefore, this is certainly not thought enough at that time, or it's not thought enough about what it can come up with, and it's certainly very important that we take care of it. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82365	I thank my colleague, Peric. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82366	Dear colleague Peric, you're an economist, right? Which is the logic that the city of Zagreb invests 100 million in something that is partly useful for the citizens of the city of Zagreb, but is useful for the citizens of the whole of Croatia and why the state would take a partner city of Zagreb because if a new plant is to be built, it will be built somewhere outside of Zagreb at some other location because it requires a special building and everything that goes along with it. And that logic obviously does not exist and that logic is obvious that only the government of the property in Rockefeller, that is the only interest of the city of Zagreb, is not interested in starting production, but I am surprised why the government agreed to it and what the government's interest is because the interest should be that Croatia has a state Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82367	Thank you. Answer, colleague Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82368	It is logical for the city of Zagreb to enter if it is as a partner of a city, it would not be logical that it is another city where there is no such property. So the one in which the property is located, of course it has an interest, and normally, through part of it, it will return some of its investment, and in this way it actually allows both of us to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82369	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Peric. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82370	Thank you, Chairman. You were talking about blood and blood preparations, we know from testimony, from research by a number of directors that blood preparations are something where first and most easily re-produced production could be restored. So first of all, we have the city of Zagreb, which is a large base of people who voluntarily give blood, so if the price of that input raw material remained 0 because people donate free and if it spreads a little bit to surrounding countries, it is said that it could even be profitable. This is considered by most subjects, so that just blood preparations, or blood processing into blood products, are something where the first and easiest and most effective could be initiated by the Immunological Institute. Then viral vaccines, bacterial vaccines, maybe interferons, or, say, antidotes, we know we're out of antidotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82371	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I came here for an individual debate that I, as a witness to the committee itself and as a colleague here in the Assembly to commend my colleague Sincic on the initiative and work of the committee itself and all the members of the commission, and I must say that everyone was very professionally treated when I testified on the commission itself, and for this reason I would like to overcome the insults I suffered about an hour ago and I will no longer discuss it. And I would especially like to point out that the very conclusions of the committee itself have unfortunately not revealed something that I have spoken of on the committee itself and that I have spoken publicly and so on and so on. An invisible hand that controls the entire process and is tied to the Immunological Institute. Namely, I was the Assistant Minister of Health in 2002 until 2004, as head of HZZO for two and a half years and a year and a half. So in those six years, I've been fighting all kinds of windmills in the health system, with all kinds of syncures, and let's say almost the dark parts of the health system, but the windmills of the size of the Immunological Institute really don't have a precedent, and it's amazing that for so many years this so-called. The invisible hand manages this process and systematically destroys this institution out of its interests and I have never been able to find out who this invisible hand is, and neither has the commission through its work managed to identify who this person or group of persons is. What now? We now have a proposal for the city of Zagreb, a colleague of Vardaj spoke about it and that is something that the city of Zagreb with its entry into the Immunological Institute itself and is not defined which part, whether the city of Zagreb invests in the Immunological Institute or the city of Zagreb invests in the Immunological Institute, the National Health Institute. It's two different institutions. A decision was made as Peric said, in the 10th month of 2015. Today is May 2018. Since then, that status quo has been maintained. On the committee itself, I was saying that I was sorry that my intrinsicity had not been realized that in this time of waiting for the matter to be resolved that no money had been invested in the education of the staff themselves so that they would become Dalmatianly express themselves, ugly in their sitting in the rooms of the Immunological Institute by not doing their basic activity. I had some discussions with the pharmaceutical industry in Zagreb and the surrounding area to take over the loan workers for reasons that they were studying new methods there and there was an agreement on that. However, no progress has been made on the Immunological Institute for almost two years, two years and two months now. And now the question is what and which way to go. Everyone's talking about investing in new spaces. The new premises, gentlemen, for the pharmaceutical industry means good manufacturing practice and licenseing is minimum for 3 years, in the Republic of Croatia it usually takes about 5 years. So, from the day the decision is made, from the day the prime minister and mayor of the city of Zagreb will lay the cornerstone of the new production plant, it will take a minimum of 3 years to 5 years to establish the first production or first product that can be marketed. And that's what it is, we were aware of that and it was the basis of the intensities for the establishment of the State Institute because you have to maintain them with people, you have to supply them with regular pay, but you also have to motivate them to stay in the Immunological Institute and continue to have progress in their careers. Unfortunately, I'm saying, for the past 2.5 years, nothing has happened to the Immunological Institute, the people I've talked to who are working in the Immunology are frustrated with their status, and that's something I think is not fair to them, and that's something that must be done. Here, I am also giving you this proposal from the ruling side that the Government as the holder of the State Health Institute or the responsibility of the Ministry of Health that persons are instructed in agreement with the pharmaceutical industry to further study their trade and thus acquire new knowledge that they have lost in the meantime. Regarding this question, it can also be mentioned that, if you remember, about 15 companies have given their initial statements, interests in buying the Immunological Institute. Unfortunately, no company has made a binding offer that could be accepted. The basic argument why they did not, therefore, lacked proper documentation for the production of products by the Immunological Institute, and the drive itself as such does not meet the needs or GNP certificates that can continue at a fast pace of construction. Therefore, no company, investment fund or anyone who deals with investment does want to wait 3-5 years for the beginning of production at all, let alone the return of investment on such a long time. For this reason, it must be the state that invests it. Therefore, all stories gave it a good idea or not, at some point a better solution as such was not to save over 100 employees of the Institute and to solve it that way. Why didn't the transfer of assets and liabilities happen in the end line, to the D.D. State Department, if we have to ask that invisible hand again? I hope he listens and follows us on his little screens. It is, in fact, that HZZO as a relative majority owner then with 44% share in the meantime has grown slightly, with over 10 million debts never recovered, never returned loans that they gave to the Immunological Institute on multiple occasions, we asked for recapitalisations, we asked that we could capitalize with previous debt, but also with fresh money to get in and get 50% plus one share of the Institute itself and that HZZO can control the assembly and take over the management of the Immunological Institute. This was prevented in all possible ways that could be done with an extremely bureaucratic jargon and ravine that had already been said and spoken before, but it is something that you now have before you the State Institute, you have staff who are willing and eager to do. Once again, I suggest you engage in the pharmaceutical industry so that they can acquire new knowledge and maintain it and whether or not with the city, without the city to initiate the procedure because it will be at least the first step of something to do by the Ministry of Health. Here, I read and watch emails every day from e-consultation and look forward to the first law of any of the Ministry of Health since February 2016. We are now in May 2018. No legal solution has come from the health ministry for almost two years. And that's something I find declassified. At least start solving the Immunological Institute that's in front of you. You have funds, you have surpluses in the state budget, small funds are needed to get rid of it. You've got other state institutions that have huge plots and construction can start maltenes right now. I don't see any reason why the health care system is stagnating, standing in place, and absolutely nothing is doing, and then it shares with it the Immunological Institute. I don't think it's fair to Croatian citizens, it's not fair to the employees of the Immunological Institute, and it's high time you got a job. If you need any advice, if you need any explanations about the decisions that were in the past, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82373	I thank my colleague Varga for this debate. We had raised the tiles for two replicas, but unfortunately both colleague Sincic and colleague Mrsic on the basis of Article 235 you exhausted the possibility of replicas because you have already replicated three times in this agenda point so I am really sorry. We move to debate, final, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82374	Thank you very much. As I said in an individual debate, I hope that after this committee to determine responsibility for the results of management and availability on the financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute that it will never be worth that parole again, we leave the commission to essentially put that aside. It has been like so far in the rule and narration of all the committees that we have cited, a little which the commission has been or has not been prevented, as in the case of Agrokor to be revealed, but certainly now it comes out in public. And here, of course, we should commend the entire commission headed by the gentleman, our colleague Sincic, who did a huge job and basically gave us materials that we should study and see how the Croatian State was managed. So as it is said from political influences, from guessing, from essentially ignoring the private, this public interest, that it was in front of the private, it mentions a number of academics and experts who should have done their job in the public interest, and they are not, and also the failure of the state. However, today when we look at this whole story about the Immunological Institute, we must say that it is obvious and the influence of various lobbys that have influence and on, import lobbys, whether the Immunological Institute has been doing preparations and vaccines that have not been tribally imported, unfortunately, now that it is stopped, Croatia has huge damages and shortages of these vaccines and everything it has produced. We've heard that plasma readings, that it's still in the Immunological plasma, vaccines, real estate, I'm afraid some aren't undercover, and that's where I said saving the Immunologically threw their paws at valuable properties, that's what we're paying attention to, here's a colleague Varda said here that as an ex-minister, knowing the matrix for 3 years just needs to start the process again, for a minimum of 3 years, so we have this huge problem. We have a huge problem that came out of this robbery and the destruction of public goods, we have what we're losing human resources, i.e. The potential, the staff, it's the hardest, much harder than these buildings, all of which we have, and these are the people who have been in this Immunological Institute who have given their minds, their knowledge to our homeland, but unfortunately, they have been left alone for a long time, waiting for them too long, waiting for this meeting, the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, so I mentioned it to us earlier, it welcomed Sinčić, me and the rest of them, from the loose intellectual elites sitting in this House, who managed various ministries. So I repeat once again that there are no changes in politics because of what was done, when it was in the interest of public good, but those who knew, because those who knew scientists were not doing their job, these political elites, intellectual elites that did not use their knowledge for the greater good, but in destroying the public interest, and surely they got huge profits and now the key question here is after all these damages that Croatian society has and future generations, is the Immunological Institute supposed to be left to our children and we borrowed it from our children because last generation was essentially creating it, according to who would answer? The commission did their job, colleague Sincic and all the members did, did their job, witnessed what they had, and now what? Who's going to answer? We have only praises in public, we hear from the club of Representative Milan Bandic how they will solve it all, they will invest millions, how will, I said, Milan Almighty solve it, and who will pay for it in fact? Citizens again. Who's going to answer, what's the message to those who just threw an example of a paw at the real estate? Message... The real estate will again be set up in 10 years, so the time is to say no, I believe that there are a number of MPs in Parliament now, and since there will be more, no matter who they are, who won't allow them to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is time to tell these criminals who are hiding as intellectual elites in a number of academic, scientific, political institutions that have destroyed the Croatian state, and the commission has proved this at the Immunological Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82375	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82376	Thank you, Chairman, thank you colleagues for the debate and for being here with us at this relatively late hour. Here before I give my closing statement, as a promoter, as president of this Assembly Research Commission, I would just like to read one letter that I received, probably all of you, I think it's some kind of a circle and it says: Honored parliamentary representatives, today the money has been voted for the launch of the Immunological Institute, otherwise from May 2nd, everything is ready for the acceptance of money, there is no end to enthusiasm, in key positions are the same ones that have allowed similar acceptances from earlier, or the period from 2013 to '18. While feeding us the state budget isn't harmless. I'm giving this to e-mail 5 contributions, they're all arranged and everyone's answering, only the prime minister didn't answer. In the empty vault of the Immunological Institute is even a recognition of the withdrawal of money, the person who did this continues to run the Immunological Institute's Finance Department. The State Audit, she asked for a shift from the Director of Finance and Internal Affairs in 2011, and then the State's Attorney's office found that everything was fine. Because of the theft of nearly 140,000 kuna, DORH did nothing. Here's something I'm going to definitely ask the DORH and what's another street that's opened and I want to explore to the end, however bandaged, long, dark or whatever. Mr. Varga was talking about an invisible hand, yes. Your testimony was 24 out of 26 already in the long summer months, when it was already impossible for the quorum to call new witnesses. I'd very much like to call Chief Cross, or, say, DUUDI's men. Personally, if I were, and anyone had to tell me where the invisible hand is, I'd say it's in DUUDI right now in state property. Why? And that's a few points I explained, point 31. point 28. I was already talking about what it was, so 600,000 kn was supposed to get an Immunological Bureau from the state, because it kept its property, it was never realized, precisely because of the DUDI. Then 32 votes in the assembly, so the director was sent to rebuild the Institute, and DUUDI votes and destroys the whole story at the assembly. And point 31, this key point, which is the highlight of all that, I would say. Why? Because if someone ran the Immunological Institute as a edge. At point 31, he caught him where he always wanted him to step up in a schizophrenic situation, that we had both a company and an institution and that the complications were actually much bigger. So I'm going to read here completely point 31 of our conclusion. The responsibility for problems in the transfer of property from a company to an institution lies with the authors of the Regulation establishing the Institute of Immunology. In point 2 of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate proceedings and to transform the company of the immune institution d.d. The Institute for Health Activity, the Institute of Immunology, is ordered to be in charge of the Ministry of Health, to prepare, together with the State Office for the Management of State Property, a proposal for a Regulation to the Government on Transformation. The reformation procedure shall be carried out in accordance with Article. 551 of the ZTD, which has been designated as a shareholder company, can transfer its entire assets without carrying out the liquidation to the Republic of Croatia, the County, the municipality or the city. Therefore, we are talking about a central or local state and that the provisions of this law on a society that is attached are properly applied. Furthermore, it is determined that the registration of the transfer of shares to the court register, in which it is entered, ceases that the company, which we know that the legal persons cease to be removed from the register, transfers the assets to the acquirer, and instead of the share swap relationship, determines the form and height of the transferred property. Therefore, the regulation should, and should not have been included, prescribed, on the one hand, by analogous application of the rules in the adjective of the company's termination of the company, as will be the conclusion of the company. On the other hand, transfer of assets to the Republic of Croatia and then transfer of the same assets from the Republic of Croatia as intermediaries to the newly established Immunological Institute. So, by the logic of the matter, DUUDI in the regulation had to do its job and it did not, in a way that precisely determined the activity of the transfer of assets according to the ZTD, and the Ministry of Health, the other part of the regulation, about the establishment of an institution. We know that the facility was successfully founded, that part was successfully solved. The existing regulation de facto speaks only about the establishment of an Immunological Institute of the Institute, in accordance with the Law on Institutions, and it contains only 2 articles, 20 and 21, which regulates part of the matter related to the transfer of assets of the company’s termination, which is not quite enough to call the assembly. The Regulation was to regulate the model, to regulate the model of termination of the company, to assess the identification of appropriate severance to shareholders of the Immunological Institute, or to those 21% other than the State, to assess the audit of the addition of the transfer, to the economic unit of the Immunological Institute d.d. In an institution. Furthermore, a proposal for a decision by the Government to confirm the transfer of all assets and obligations of the Immunological Institute to the Republic of Croatia should be drawn up. It was necessary to provide for the regulation and to draw up government decisions on how to compensate state-owned shareholders of a company that will be deleted from its register. In any event, this Regulation is insufficient to implement the transformation process. The establishment is a successful establishment, but the process of shutting down the company, has not been sufficiently prepared, for which DUUDI is primarily responsible. So we have one process of transfer of assets from the company through the Republic of Croatia according to the ZTD and the Law on Institutions to the institution. The health ministry did its job, the facility was established, and this second part that was to be done by DUUDI was not done. So there's a whole series of things that aren't made, because I just read them. I'd say it's a legal sabotage, but why is it important to read now... Because if this government is going to do the same thing now in the restoration of the Immunological Institute, it's in the same problem again, we still have the company and the institution, how are they going to solve it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'll obviously bring all these documents. So someone was at that time, I don't like to believe that it was an accident, that such a number of discounts were possible, but someone made such a regulation that it was actually inconclusive and it's actually kept the status quo for four years and kept the immune institution in a state where it couldn't go forward or back. And that's something this government will need to deal with. So here I see an invisible, or hidden, systematic sabotage, as regards here in your testimony, colleague Varga on the p. 70, I'll read that part too. If it's 70, just a minute, it's very important, so I'm asking you to find it. Your testimony on page 90 and something, here it is. Page 95, I quote, if, Minister, you know, there was no need for a decision by the Assembly to buy space, land for production plant in the municipality of Križ, because a member of the council of the municipality of Križ told you that the municipality had made a decision on the Immunological Institute, that the Immunological Institute gave you land. That's what you were talking about at your testimony. I'm in co-operation with the secretary we contacted and the chief who thinks he's a Labourist and we've examined that whole story, and in the end we came to it because it was all off the record, so we couldn't even call them to the stand because there was no quorum or we could get the documents, but here's the public telling what I found out because I want to investigate all the way. So they said it wasn't an idea to give land for free, but it was an idea to get into some very cheap lease, that's what we got from the mayor or the president of the city council, I don't remember anymore. So let the public know what happened, and of course that's another dead end we have to, so I'm trying and I'm going to keep trying to get to the end of that street. And lastly, I'd like to say two things from the recommendation. The first recommendation is number 6 which speaks of new products, so at the end of that head stands, worth mentioning that in 2011, Malaysian company Duo Pharma wanted to establish a business relationship or in English it's called Joy Adventure with the Immunological Institute in order to produce biotechnology products with a Halal Certificate, with the market of Muslim countries of Asia, we know that these are huge markets and that the Halal certificate actually gives you a great advantage on the market. The business has failed because of the neglect of the owners, so the state and then the government, or if I remember, simply no one from the government wanted to see the Malaysians. Maybe if I remember at that time, Mr. Domagoj Milosevic was the Deputy Prime Minister for Investments or something, so maybe he's part of some invisible hand, I can't say because I wanted to call him to testify, we failed because of the lack of quorum. Furthermore, I would like to read item 10, reconstruction of human resources, research and development. Over the years, due to poor governance, a highly qualified staff has left the Immunological Institute and now in 2017 there is only one doctor of science doing as I said earlier. In 2013, the Council adopted The Department for Research and Development of the Immunological Institute was singled out by an agreement between Director Gajnik, Rector Belis and Minister Jovanovic at the time. The unit now belongs to universities within the Centre for research and knowledge transfer in biotechnology, consisting of 20 people. I guess the Bureau was in so much crisis that people were thrilled to cross somewhere where there was a future, which is part of the state. The witnesses said that they were in contact, yeah, I think it's specifically about Mr. Bank who witnessed it, so the information was provided that he was in contact with people who wanted to return to the Immunological Institute, meaning people who wanted to go back there even though they were falling apart all over the world. When a young scientist comes from college, it takes 2 to 3 years of training, depending on the job to do the job at the workplace, which is what you said yourself, so it takes years to establish production. Here's what else to say? I think we've been through a lot, that a lot of issues are open, I'm going to personally try and keep communicating to the institutions, what I'm doing with my research, getting as much information as possible, but here, I think it's a good epilogue for the end. If there's any interest, you called it an invisible hand, I first saw it in DUUDI and I elaborated here why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82377	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote on this point when the conditions come to pass. Dear comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we've been discussing here for 9.5 hours now, and we have a very important point in front of us that is proposed by the Living Wall. Tomorrow we don't have that many points, we'll be done again 12 hours ago, I'm asking you to move the current point for tomorrow, there's no need for us to stay here deep into the night. And otherwise, if you insist on keeping this point still, on behalf of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA, I demand a 10-minute break in order to consult at the club on how to present this topic in view of the lack of representatives and general fatigue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82379	Thank you, comrade Bunjac, for your remarks. As we had in plan three points of the agenda today, so we have three points of the agenda tomorrow. Thank you for your suggestions. As far as the break is concerned, you've already asked for a break. You have no right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82380	We're going to vote now. Report on the work of the investigating committee on responsibilities for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources to the Immunological Institute. The applicant shall be the Research Commission for the determination of responsibilities for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources to the Immunological Institute. The debate is closed. I stress that. 13. The law on the investigated committees provides that a report by the investigating committee is to be decided by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the work of the investigating committee to determine responsibility for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources to the Immunological Institute is adopted. Let's vote. I find that most of the votes 117 for and 1 abstentions are accepted by that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82381	We move to the next item of the agenda, as planned by the plenary session, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 210 The applicant shall be the Representatives' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the responsible Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the competent Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an explanation? No, thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? You're not, okay. Does the Government's representative want to give an additional explanation of his opinion? No, I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we have before us an amendment to the Law on drug abuse, which is directly related to the legalization of Indian hemp. We know that hemp was legally legalized until 1960 when the UN decision suddenly declared to be the most dangerous plant on the planet, and from that moment on, one systematic persecution, one ban, which has once again proved to be a complete failure in the last decade, and now the reverse process is happening, and this reverse process is going to be legalised in all countries of the world, and especially in those we love to compare hemp with again. First of all, it is made with industrial hemp, however hemp and also indian for reasons that it has proved to be a very successful drug because it has proved to be a product of many products. It means about 25 thousand different products, and that ultimately it has a very good impact on agriculture, tourism, budgets and, therefore, benefits for society as a whole. In this first part, therefore, legalization of hemp we have a situation that in the Republic of Croatia it is already partly legalized, but only one part of that plant can be used. So, the vast majority of plants actually have to be thrown away and thus the hemp producers are brought into a bizarre position that they actually produce only one part of the plant and that the rest must be thrown away. It is literally expected that they burn it, destroy it, which simply doesn't make sense because, for example, of the hemp stem, which is thus to be destroyed, a number of valuable products must be produced, for example. even construction materials can be produced, even cars can be produced, but not to go so far, so detailed, let's say paper can be produced, one hectare of industrial hemp is equivalent to four hectares of forest in paper production. And now instead of cutting down the woods because we have hemp, we simply destroy the hemp and then after that we continue to cut down the forest. We, among other things, prevent the success of this plant on the agricultural market although it is very perspective and has the potential to employ as many as 50,000 people who could live exclusively from it. Even this small permit allows essentially many OPGs to survive, but they currently have relatively little in the Republic of Croatia and only a few thousand people are employed. So, basically much less than that would be possible. What is very interesting to note is that, in fact, in this part of the bill's amendment, there is a general consensus, as far as I was able to understand even in the Assembly, that on the three committees on which this law was presented, the Committee on Youth, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Health, all MPs, how the ruling majority of such opposition were agreed that it should simply be returned to the old state as it once was, but they did not want to support the Living Wall proposal but they said that they were writing their own proposal and that, as in the 9th month, the issue would be resolved by the law proposed by the Government. If that is indeed true, then perhaps the rejection of the committees who voted against is not such a problem if it really is because I believe there is nothing controversial about it. If you ask your grandparents, if they're still alive, they'll just tell you that they were sleeping alone in a hemp bed, using hemp. So Croatia was the second exporter in the hemp world. If any plant marked Croatian agriculture, its history was definitely hemp, and before all territories of Slavonia. On the other hand, we have the use of the plant for medical purposes and it should also not be in any way controversial because hemp is already recognised as a medicine. So she's serving in the Republic of Croatia recognised as a cure, there's no further discussion whether it's a cure or not. It helps many serious diseases, now it is officially admitted to helping only 4 diseases such as multiple sclerosis, AIDS and some even though scientific research published in the most respected international magazines shows that hemp helps in 30 diseases. So this list should actually be significantly expanded against the current list of the Ministry of Health. What is controversial, however, is disputed that the medicinal product should only be imported. So, it must not be produced in the Republic of Croatia, but it must be imported which is once again an absurd situation where we really have to ask ourselves whether it's again suitable for some import lobbys, whether it's again suitable for some commissions, and it really doesn't make sense that we don't make it ourselves. A team before these import drugs are very expensive, somewhere from 2,000 to 7,000 kuna, and our citizens just can't afford it. And then they go back to the black market. So, as we've contained the black market and we haven't really solved anything, it's active again, and all the citizens who need hemp don't get it in the pharmacy, they're buying it in private, or they're growing it themselves, and then they're re-exposing the prosecution, and we've had some cases that people who were seriously sick have been sentenced to prison sentences because they were trying to treat themselves. I don't want to elaborate too much here because it's already too late, but I believe that Croatian citizens are familiar with the benefits of medical hemp, to know that it has positive effects in people who suffer cramps, who suffer severe pains and other problems. Therefore, our legal solution is that hemp, medical hemp can also be produced in the Republic of Croatia and not only imported. And the third solution proposed by this amendment to the law is the use of Indian hemp for recreational purposes where exactly the amount to which one individual can own stables of Indian hemp, in particular 6. In fact, already and now the possession of Indian hemp has been decriminalized, it is actually by amending the Penal Code placed in the area of crime, but the great resources are still being spent on persecution, so police resources, judicial resources are going, spending their energy on something that has become practically legalized. So in Croatia we simply have to be aware of this, it shows among other statistics, that all citizens who want to re-reactively use marijuana are using it. Official EU statistics show that 14% of EU citizens have tried marijuana, i.e. Indian hemp, or that they occasionally enjoy it or have done so in the past. We have cases of several US federal states that legalized it, we have a Uruguay case, we have a case of Spain, we have a case of the Netherlands, we have a case of Portugal, we have a Czech Republic, interesting Czech one country of the eastern bloc, where it's simply allowed citizens to own a certain amount, somewhere it's 5 grams, somewhere up to 8, somewhere up to 85 grams, and we have certain cities like Amsterdam that keep their entire finances stable exclusively by legalizing hemp for recreational purposes, there come millions of tourists there annually only because they're not being persecuted there and can freely enjoy Indian hemp. Some people here say it is very bad, that it is sodom and gomorrah, but I would like to say that essentially those countries that persecute Indian hemp fall into the order of the most retarded countries, the most traditional, the worst regimes, say Saudi Arabia where heads are cut or people are sentenced to life imprisonment, I do believe that in the Croatian Parliament there are not people who are so rigid and conservative, and on the other hand in Amsterdam, namely the Netherlands or Spain can be or I don't know Oregon, however, can be examples of Croatia as a regulated country, as a civilised country, as countries that have a high standard, a high sense of satisfaction of citizens and among other Croatian citizens there would be happy to move, and I don't believe that their residents would be happy to move to Croatia. We may not be happy to move to Croatia, but we might come as tourists, perhaps for this very reason we have a season that lasts for 2 to 3 months, earning 9 to 10 billion euros, perhaps in this way we could extend the season in winter months, surely that the budget would benefit from it, rather than the black market, surely that farmers would benefit from it because jobs would be opened and simply follow the trends that are already present in the world. I know that this third part is controversial for one part of the MPs, I know that there will be moralization, I know that there will be intelligence, that there will be an appeal to conscience, while let's say in the executive law, is there no appeal to conscience, etc. but I would also remind you that it is a factical state, so let's just not lie to ourselves, and on the other hand I would also say that in Croatia we have cases of not knowing, legalisation of cigarettes, alcohol, gambling, all possible pharmaceutical poisons such as silicones, botoxes, all of this is legalized, all of this is as normal, although it causes far greater damage to society, per family, per individual than Indian hemp, but I am giving you the will to discuss this subject as you will. We will try to co-operate as legislators, answer your questions, analyze them, and hope that in the final word, we will come to the conclusion that this law still goes into second reading, so that at least some consensus on parts of the law is reached, if we can't reach consensus on the whole of the law, with that I want to say that it is inevitable and certain that the law in this form will be adopted, it's only a question of when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82383	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Says Paracelsus all things are poisonous and nothing is without poison just a dose of what makes some thing not poison. We have already discussed amendments and additions to the drug abuse Act, which was the proposal of the SDP Club, the Ministry of Health is preparing a new law and now we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law in question by the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA. The issue of legalisation of marijuana is a professional, political and world-famous issue. No country has regulated this area in the same way. There were a lot of different memories. I think that when we talk about legalising marijuana for recreational purposes, there should be a broad public debate that is not only in this high house by now, but I absolutely feel good about discussing this topic in the Croatian Parliament. We have 3 parts here. So, industrial and economic purposes, medical purposes and recreational use. As mentioned earlier, the most problematic is recreational use. When we talk about this problem, it's important to distinguish decriminalization from the concept of legalization. Croatia has decriminalised so that ownership for personal purposes is considered a criminal offence, not a criminal offence, with me pointing out that when it was criminalised, it was never a situation that some small amount of illegal drugs would have left a person in prison for up to 3 years, as envisaged. The topic of medical use is also kind of absorbed. The Immunological Institute has packed. Whether there should be fields where such marijuana is grown for medical purposes and can be discussed, but what is very important is to emphasise, therefore, that there are no morphological external differences in marijuana where THC levels are lower than 0.2% and those where it is greater than 0.2%. Medical marijuana was first legalized in the state of California in 1996 when it was numbered there, so it can be used to treat different symptoms, including chronic pain. Since there is no objective pain test, it literally meant legalizing marijuana smoking, it thus became a formality. Recreation use has been legalized in some federal states of Colorado and Washington. However, no national European government supports the legalisation of cannabis sales for recreational use and all countries have prison sentences for illegal supply, so when it comes to larger quantities of illegal psychoactive substances. The Netherlands is mentioned as some kind of example, and the Netherlands has this area in some way legalized through the coffee shops in the Netherlands about 600, of which is a third in Amsterdam. Now that this should be some new possibility of spreading tourism to the Republic of Croatia, then we can allow for personal use and psychostimulating drugs, I see no difference in this logic that cocaine consumption, speed and other drugs are not allowed in small quantities. In addition to the coffee shops, so these coffee shops are approved by municipalities, not the state, there are so-called so-called "coffee shops". Cannabis social clubs. There were several proposals by these social clubs, and then it was foreseen, therefore, to grow one cannabis plant for one member. The motion of a living wall is much more free and then one person goes to six cannabis plants. In 2015, however, the Spanish Supreme Court decided that organised, institutionalised and permanent cultivation and distribution of cannabis among the association that is intended to include new members is considered drug trafficking. So, I repeat, all EU member states are treating the possession of cannabis for personal use as a violation, so that these amendments to the law would make Croatia the first EU member state to allow this way to consume marijuana for recreational purposes. However, what also fell into my eyes is Article 13b. – use of hemp for medical purposes. Therefore, according to this Legislative proposal, any adult who considers that hemp or hemp-based preparations help her treat the disease or remove symptoms and disease-related problems may raise the amount of hemp needed to use or collect hemp-based preparations for her own treatment. If this article were to be accepted, then this article for recreational purposes is no longer needed because every person assesses what disease he has, which diagnosis, which symptoms and the right to use marijuana so that you do not need this third proposal if the use of hemp for medical purposes is granted in this way. I don't think there's anyone around here who's kind of rigid right now who doesn't see the situation. So according to estimates that can be found on the European Monitoring Centre pages, therefore, between 15 and 34 years old in the Republic of Croatia, men and women over the past year 16.1% of people aged 15-34 in Croatia consumed marijuana. So it is a large number and the Republic of Croatia is actually compared to other Member States at the top. The Czech Republic, for example, Spain, is mentioned, we are here somewhere like the Netherlands. France has the most, slightly more than 22% of 15-34 people consumed marijuana over the last year. Yeah, and that's reality. Sweden said they were not so rich that they could legalise third drugs, so both alcohol and tobacco are at this point socially acceptable drugs that record the devastating consequences for residents' health. At this point, the most common means of dependence in the EU for which people are emerging for treatment of addiction is marijuana. There are numerous researches, maybe I'm here on one side subjective, I'm much more subjective than you see those people who because of the consumption of marijuana end up in a psychiatric hospital and then I'm on that side subjective, but I'm going to paint it for you. So what's the difference between alcohol and marijuana. Alcohol will cause sedation in some people so they can sleep, some people will get happy and hug other people, sing, some people will become aggressive. That's all there is to you in marijuana, but there's something else. Marijuana causes psychosis, not all of which, but in a certain number of people, marijuana causes psychotic disorder and that's what makes marijuana different from all other illegal drugs, at least in that percentage. So heroin will never cause psychotic disorder, can after 10 years of heroin consumption but let's say one study from Sweden, from the Carolina Institute connects 20% of young schizophrenics with marijuana consumption up to 5 times where marijuana is one of the triggers. Why this? So I don't scare people, only 10% of those who consume some drug will become drug addicts. So, every 10 persons, not every person, but we have to bear in mind that the consumption of marijuana can have devastating consequences for the health of the organism as well as tobacco, as well as alcohol, it does not slow down at all and it is no moralization whatsoever. Whether the legalisation of marijuana will take place in Croatia in 5, 10, 20 years, I don't know but I say, if such a law were adopted and the consumption of marijuana for recreational purposes was approved and not treated as a violation, we would be the first EU country to regulate in this way. So if we look at it, now I won't bother you because it's already too late, by the number of seizures, 2/3 of all drug-related crimes are tied to marijuana, there's been a plant cannabis, so a leaf, there's been resin, so there's a lot of controversy. This topic should also be discussed, on this side is a commendable initiative of the Living Wall to discuss this subject, but the HDZ Club cannot support such changes and additions to the Law on drug abuses because it is much more harmful than the benefit when we talk about recreational use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82385	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82386	... Chairman. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here on behalf of the promoter, I'd like to speak to Mr. Cellic, you see, Mr. Cellic, this is where your grandmother slept. It's a bed linen, a Croatian hemp 80 years old. I don't understand why you defend something that is traditional, you don't want something that is traditional Croatian. You here on one hand claim that 20% of Croatian citizens consumed marijuana and on the other hand, by that logic, we would have to have 20% schizophrenics, mental patients, lunatics, I don't know how you described it, and there isn't. We have yes, 250,000 alcoholics. We've got 13 liters of pure alcohol drinking per capita per year. Of the 1,000 people who die of cirrhosis of the liver, 700 of them die of cirrhosis of the liver. 7,000 car accidents a year and 1/3 of all road deaths were caused by alcohol. You know how much an alcoholic lives on average? 59 years, none of them have retired. What success does he have in his work, what success in his education, what is his family life like? Who is the focus of the marketing that concerns alcoholic beverages? To young people. I don't know if you've ever noticed, but when you walk past any school, take a look at some jumbo posters. About school. If you can't see, I'll bring you photos of you advertised, the Karlovian Beer, the Pan Beer, the March. Look right around the school, you don't notice, he doesn't moralize. Then don't come here for a pay phone to talk about the adverse consequences. You said 20% yourself, so what are you and the ban going on? What else can you do? So anyone who wants can already be used for recreational use and the state has absolutely nothing to do with it. Nothing, no kuna in the budget, maybe you could use 500 million kuna to help you in your profession for some prevention, maybe you could use some money to prevent alcoholism, maybe you could use some money to prevent gambling, 40,000 heavy gambling addicts we have, do you know any gamblers? If you know him, compare his behavior with his marijuana recreational behavior, let's say some student, etc. So you'll see the adverse consequences, how the family is destroyed, how the gamblers and the alcoholics destroy the family, and I'm not sure those people you mentioned destroyed the families, that they died when they were 59 years old, that they had liver cirrhosis, and stuff like that. So I understand your arguments, but there seems to be a small dose of hypocrisy. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82387	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82388	I'm sorry that you selectively heard what I was talking about, so as far as agriculture is concerned, as far as industrial products are concerned, I absolutely agree with you. When did you hear I promoted alcohol or tobacco? I know that you're a professor and you like to give a lecture, you've been teaching a short period of time in Vrapč High School of Medicine, but let me think that the 15-year-olds I've been working with, you're denying, so the fact that a much higher incidence of alcohol addiction and tobacco addiction and harmful consequences, but trust me, the impact on the family and marijuana addicts is also problematic, so the fact is that in those people who suffer from psychosis, the consumption of marijuana will certainly lead to a worsening of the disease, and at this point, it's not possible to say the cause that marijuana consumption will cause schizophrenia, so I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82389	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82390	Thank you very much, Mr. Cellic. I don't really have any need to give you a hand because I know I can't change your mind, so I'm fully aware of that. But I do have a need for the public, so precisely because of these 20% of the citizens that no one in the House is currently representing, at least I haven't heard that he was representing. And on behalf of those 20% of citizens who, in your words, are not normal, and they may think that you are not and they may not think that it is not a normal executive law, they may not think that it is a normal sale of state property, they may think that it is not normal to take 500 million kuna through a group mail. So I'm talking to them and I want to tell them that they haven't actually done anything wrong, and excessive consumption always hurts. I'm sure you'll be psychotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82391	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica of a respected colleague of Tomislav Sauch, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, this is, I agree with you an important topic and a shame to discuss this at this time. I also agree with you that alcohol, nicotine and gambling are incomparably greater evil and I think it is good to open up a little wider discussion on this subject. It's not that I'm defending my colleague Cellic, though, some of the things he said, even though I take it with a reservation that he's a doctor, I'm not, I've never heard of people becoming addicted to marijuana and being psychotic, but I just want to say that maybe it's a good thing that your performance is still a little bit focused on the structure, but a consensus. If we're already here as you say... Consensus about two first themes, let's try this third topic through one little bit like this, let's try to talk about it, so let's find a really one common word, here's nothing else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82393	I thank my colleague, Sauch. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82394	Thank you very much, dear colleague Sauch. I appreciate your contribution. You've now directed this debate in the right direction. It's not really a matter of me taking some positions over a barricade, even less over a gun, but actually seeing what can be accepted from this law, which can be raised by the hand, which parts can possibly be repaired, and then seeing in the second reading that this law is corrected by amendments and that it is ultimately accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82395	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82396	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For the second time, we have before us a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. So I'll just take a little bit of my time to look back at a brief review, namely, while I was a minister, a rule was adopted on drug classification criteria and on prescription prescription for which defacto is for the first time in the Republic, in modern Croatia legalized use of medical cannabis, i.e. the means containing THC to use for medical purposes as an auxiliary means of easing the problems of multiple sclerosis, cancer, epilepsy and AIDS. Looking back now, the intensity was much wider and bigger than what was listed, but just before I talked about the Immunological Institute I was talking about fighting windmills and here I have to say that there were also huge resistances from all sides to bring this rule to both the professional public and the unprofessional public and from the political and every one, however, we stood firm at the point of view that the rule must be passed for the primary reason because he was the first patient on his mind. Patients suffering from severe epilepsy, terminal patients with cancers, patients suffering from AIDS and patients suffering from multiple sclerosis deserve to have this aid to use during their treatment. What should be particularly pointed out that, here is a colleague of Bunjac was mentioned that the intensities of any adoption of this Regulation were to be granted to someone because they prevented breeding in Croatia and were already working for import lobbys. We're talking about the rulebook, we have economists, we have all kinds of waists, we don't need to be a great lawyer to know that you can't pass a rule that doesn't comply with the law. Therefore, in order to amend the regulation and allow it to be given, that the drug is being produced in the Republic of Croatia, we have therefore joined the creation of an amending and supplementing law on the prevention of drug abuse, however, with the calling of elections and the loss of choice, this intensity has ceased. Then I, as the opposition parliamentary representative, proposed the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, and so in 2.2.2017, this came into the Parliamentary procedure, 4.7.2017, a meeting of the Committee on Health was held, and during the debate, a colleague, not present, but another State Secretary, was held. Plazonic assured all those present that by the end of 2017, the ministry would propose a law with almost identical proposed content. From this promise to this measure, it was convincing that the opposition MOST party had already voted against the SDP opposition proposal because it respected the ministry's promise to be adopted by the end of 2017. We are now in May 2018. Of course, since 6.10, there has been a vote at the fifth session of this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the bill has not been adopted, and to this day we do not have a bill from the Ministry of Health. The bill itself then had three parts. One was the legalization of industrial hemp, which we talked about and listened to in the exhibition of colleagues of the Bunjec. We had a question of expanding the indication of the use of medical cannabis relations for medical purposes, also legalization for breeding in the Republic of Croatia, but the third part of the Law that does not contain in this Bill was a matter of synthetic drugs and a question of synthetic drugs, I believe, is a major lack of this bill. Here, I can read you the portal from today's news, due to the consequences of drug consumption in the so-called. air fresheners in Osijek's KBC were admitted within a week to six minors aged 13.5 to 17 years, they reported Thursday from the hospital and warned that drug consumption could be life-threatening in such a way. Last year, they warn that minors sometimes with so-called. Air fresheners know how to take other drugs, and in such situations potentially everyone can be life-threatening if they do not receive medical assistance in time, it reminded of the case of a 14-year-old boy in Zagreb who died last year. Namely, it's not about fighters, car fresheners. These are literally synthetic drugs sold in smart stores legally in the Republic of Croatia, and why are they legal? Because they are not covered by the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse. All the questions related to that part have been made up in our bill of law. The government refused to accept it, the parliamentary majority rejected the bill and today these drugs are of which minors and get sick and die in the Republic of Croatia is a legal tool in the Republic of Croatia. But here, let me move on to this law now. I have put my vote on this Law on the Committee on Health and Social Policy on Parliament's Committee on Health and Social Policy. I voted for one primary reason, because I want to encourage a debate on this law. I believe that personally as someone who deals with clinical work and there I can agree with my colleague Cellić, but also to complement that I, since I deal with patients who have intraoral cancer, and intraoral cancer is in more than 90% of cases caused by alcohol and cigarettes, therefore with means that are entirely legal in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I agree even with those layical sentences that are heard in the Republic of Croatia very often, even abroad that the ban on cannabis for recreational purposes, and the legal use of alcohol and cigarettes is a rather hypocritical thing and there is no explanation. I grew up in Canada. Canada is one country now going through the legalisation of cannabis use for recreational purposes. What Bunjac mentioned, however, is through very regulated production, maintenance and quality control and strict excise charge. In the Republic of Croatia, tobacco growers shall not consume a single leaf of their own tobacco without authorisation from the competent service. So that's how tobacco is regulated. Finally, for medical purposes in the Republic of Croatia, there is a macro, perfectly legal, regulated by this Act. Who can produce mak for the production of heroin or opiate from which morphine is produced is the way we wanted medical cannabis to be grown in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is the government's refusal and I believe that even now, as I hear it will refuse. One thing, when we had a pretty broad discussion at our club about this, I have to pass on, or I have to pass on the SDP's club's decision to vote on this law with abstention. I will seek a separate opinion, I will vote for and it is considered that it is not disputed whether or not medical cannabis should be legalised and it is not disputed of course nor industrial hemp, but the use of cannabis for recreational purposes should be conducted a broad public debate. I mentioned that it is now being introduced in Canada. The public debate in Canada lasted six years. It's been a little longer than it's been in these evenings to discuss this for the last 20 minutes. So the intensity is positive. We think it's good to talk about this. The SDP representative club will vote abstention, but with the intensities that either the government or the second time a broad public debate is held on this subject that there are more tribunes, that there are more consultations with the interested public and that all interested parties can be heard at the end and professions. Here's a fellow psychiatrist who deals with addiction and, of course, the opinion of the profession is very important in all of this. However, it is also necessary to look at countries that introduce the legalisation of the recreational use of cannabis, to see with which arguments because if they stand to this extent strong arguments against drug abuse, then the question is why are these countries doing so, in... Washington, Canada and some other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would even suggest, if we were to go that way to encourage public debate, I would call on the ruling majority to accept this law in the first reading and thus to launch a further public debate on the second reading. If there is a second reading, I would suggest a few amendments, but here, for now we will vote with abstention and I will personally vote in favour and I believe that praise is worth the initiative of the Living Wall to propose this law. If the ruling majority rejects this then I call, here's because we started with the SDP and now from the Living Wall, let MOST give the next proposal to amend and supplement on the prevention of drug abuse and thus continuously have a public debate about this in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82397	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have here a proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. As my predecessors said, one important law, they are also expert in this area, and they looked back on this third part because I think that in the first and second parts we agree most of the time. In this proposal of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, it is proposed to allow free breeding, processing and transport by industrial hemp, then rearing, processing, use and transport of hemp for medical purposes, and ultimately legalisation of breeding, processing, use and transport of hemp for recreation, so that every adult for the purpose of recreation can grow up to 6 hemp stems, which must not be placed on the market unless there is a registered activity, which would further be governed by the regulation of the Minister responsible for Health with the consent of the Ministers responsible for Agriculture and Justice. In principle, as far as the proposal is concerned, the HNS supports the intention of the same. Since it is known that HNS has already advocated the decriminalisation and legalisation of cannabis for numerous benefits for society, from the separation of users from the criminal environment, through the release of police and judiciary in order to combat serious and dangerous forms of crime more effectively, to the achievement of tax revenues in the budget, which has also been discussed here. The HNS advocates decriminalisation and legalisation of cannabis, both for medical purposes and for personal use, given that numerous scientific research and positive experiences of other countries that applied the same view showed that the possible harmful effects of marijuana are much less than the effects of alcohol or nicotine. But given the concrete proposal, we feel that the same should be done, both nomotechnically and essentially. In part, in line with EU documents, as well as in the part relating to the use of recreation. In particular, it is not technically clear in Article 2 of the proposal which points of Article 2(1) of the applicable law apply to the supplement. The addition of paragraph 3 is also mentioned, although the applicable law only has 2 paragraphs. Also, this proposal is not in line with European regulations, and we cannot ignore the fact that Croatia is an EU member and as such respects the European normative frameworks. The European Parliament and the Council have defined by the regulation that the industrial hemp content of THC does not exceed 0.2% in dry matter, and the applicant raises that percentage to 1%. As regards the use of hemp for medical purposes, it is also a questionable formulation of Article 2 of Article 13b which has already been spoken about here today. namely, a proposal from which every adult can produce hemp as much as he considers necessary for the treatment of what is truly an individual assessment and it is difficult to control because the person who can make that decision himself knows that this is not a good and happy solution. The marijuana itself has an extremely high percentage of THC which raises the safety of use as well as an assessment of the required quantity. In most EU countries, ready-made medicines are used under controlled conditions and are therefore safe to use. In relation to Article 13c of the proposal, i.e. Using hemp for recreational purposes, we believe that a wider public and inter-resour debate is needed because here we are on a slippery ground, we have already talked about it, all of us, my predecessors precisely about this public debate that is needed. We believe that cultivation, processing and marketing conditions should be clearer and more detailedly regulated by law, not regulation, in order to prevent possible abuses. Even in other EU Member States, it is not possible to grow, produce, process and end up using marijuana for personal purposes without strict legal control. Anyway, the HNS' position on this subject is clear. We believe that this proposal is certainly a shift, but it requires further work and wider debate since it is a complex problem that is affecting the other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and at this point the attitude of the NHS is that we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82399	I thank my esteemed colleague, at least for this debate. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82400	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll speak for a while on behalf of the promoter. My colleague Macar, I don't really see where it says that a person in need of hemp because of her medical condition for treatment would have diagnosed herself with how much she needs it. Namely, you were talking about Art. 13b, so you can also grow the amount of hemp that it needs to be used and prepared on the basis of hemp for its own treatment. There's nothing controversial about it, it doesn't say that she's assessing how much she needs. In fact, the following paragraph explains who will make a diagnosis and who will assess the extent of the sick person for whom the disease may be. So it's like this, the Minister of Health, with the consent of the Minister of Agriculture and Justice, is going to lay down a regulation that prescribes a way of exercising the right to personal breeding of hemp for medical purposes. So if a person is diagnosed with a certain condition with a disease, according to the rule, then the waist will prescribe how much he can receive and how much he can grow, etc. Therefore, the way in which medical conditions are registered and the possibility of breeding, processing, production and placing on the market hemp and hemp-based preparations for the purposes of other patients or other natural and legal persons performing for that registered activity. Therefore, a person will not self-diagnose himself, not prescribe himself as much as she needs, but regulate it by means of a rule. After diagnosis, according to the rulebook, she will be allowed to be treated as long as she needs a dose. I'd like to look back now on another part of our proposal that I believe we all agree on. This is the part relating to agriculture or agricultural production. So now the rules are such that you can grow one hectare, minimum one hectare. You have to mean, you have to have exactly as far as industrial hemps, certain varieties. There's even a list of people's newspapers that are varieties. You must not be punished for the past few years and these are restrictions that prevent the development of Croatian agriculture. You can't use the whole plant, but only certain parts of it that can be used for human and animal food. So you can't do fabric, you can't work, here we've counted a whole series of products here, so fibers, canvass, sails, shoes, clothes, tarp, tents, fishing nets, fire hoses, bags. So it's also used to produce oil, paint, bows, biodegradable plastics. So that's all we have to do in the Republic of Croatia to make it possible to produce. A wide range of products, 25 thousand are listed in the proposal, which is what the profession said and the association that this is the number, therefore, in the whole world of products that can be produced from hemp at this time. What happens if we don't legalize? They'll legalize, if we don't legalize now, is eventually we'll legalize because the hemp battle has already been won. Scientific research has shown that what we know about hemp today is not the same thing we knew in the '60s. Today we know a lot more and this battle is actually won, it just needs to be formalized. If we don't legalize at this time soon, it will happen that Slovenia, Italy, I don't know Serbia, and then there will develop agriculture, entrepreneurship, innovation in the form of new agricultural products, there will be hundreds of thousands of companies, they will gain capital, and then when we say in 10 years we go into legalisation we will find ourselves in a situation that we can't actually compete with them because they've been doing long business, they've been stalking, they have capital... They're here on the market, it's gonna be impossible to break through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we have to go into legalization and position ourselves on the market. So I'm talking only about the agricultural part. Also, as far as medical use is concerned, the proposal is pretty clear, I believe. More about it in the final part. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82401	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82402	Thank you. So when you're talking about personal use, I don't see any reason why you're allowing marijuana to be consumed for recreational purposes and for personal use, so that, by some logic, it's not allowed for all the other illegal drugs that are currently available. So, as for potential economic benefits in industrial hemp, no one is slow and absolutely necessary to update the law and make it possible for those people who want to produce industrial hemp, to make it all clear by law and sublaw and to make it happen. I'd just like to say a little bit more, therefore, about these socially acceptable drugs, so that I don't turn out to be the one to promote them. Therefore, public health in all countries is making an enormous effort to suppress and addiction to tobacco and alcohol addiction, so let's say Scotland introduced a minimum price for alcohol, you can't buy a bottle of wine for less than 5.2 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82403	Thank you. Answer, colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82404	I'm glad to see, what I said about the hemp battle was won. Even in the ruling majority who likes to be portrayed as some conservative, a democratic awareness has emerged that hemp is not today what it used to be and that it should therefore, for agricultural production to allow it to develop, to produce a wide range of products, to develop agriculture, to employ people. Then do so when you're already refusing our law, make your own, just please make it quick, not make it years. It doesn't matter to us personally who the law is going to give here, but to have that reform carried out as soon as possible, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82405	I thank my colleague Sincic for his reply. The next replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sincic and I have studied this law very well in the club, and we have great sympathy for him, and that is why we are here and distracting you, and because this law is not perfect, no law when it comes to writing is perfect, I'm afraid it will not experience another reading, obviously there is no such support. This is what we said in the best sense, so it literally says here that every... person who thinks hemp or hemp-based preparations help treat and remove symptoms... can grow as much hemp as necessary. So it's also us at the club it's a little disputed that then a person comes alone in a position to determine how much medicine he needs. The second article then tells you that the minister will prescribe the conditions under which one will be prescribed. So you're a little bit conflicted, that's what I'm saying in my best interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82407	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sauch. My colleague Sincic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82408	Thank you, Chairman. So the intensity was as I said that according to the rules and laws after the diagnosis, after determining how many doses are needed in which spaces and everything else, the person himself grows for his own use or that he can buy from domestic producers, which is also related to... Maybe item 2 was supposed to be 3 and 3. 2. to understand chronology, but it's an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82409	I thank my colleague Sincic for his reply. We move on to the next individual debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So hemp is a very useful plant, its fiber is characterized by strength, elasticity, longevity, water resistance and is therefore used to produce ropes, sails, ropes, canvass, clothing, shoes, tarpaulins, tents, fishing nets, fire hoses, equipment, sacks are increasingly used as oil, increasingly used in food, increasingly used in cosmetics, increasingly used in energy, can be used as fuel. A number of products can be produced and produced in Croatia until 60 years ago, and we have now brought ourselves into a state that not only is hemp completely banned but there is no more domestic hemp variety and no more Croatian seeds or we have to import it. Indeed, there is no single reason why an entire plant of industrial hemp could not be exploited, especially since it has a particularly low level of tetrahydrocanabio or THC-reduced. And you see now for the first time in this House of Highs, along with a legal proposal from the Living Wall, it felt like maybe the MPs were on the same side for a moment. We have also seen on committees that, in essence, the ruling majority's representatives and opposition representatives realize that such a ban does not make sense. And that might be one good reason why this law would be good to let in a second reading to continue this public debate and that, in fact, amendments may be achieved at least that these first two parts that are not disputed, especially the first part that is not disputed and adopted, because there is no point in being said by MP Varga every two, three months at the beginning of sending a new law, the same law in the debate if there are no serious objections. On the other hand, I think big progress has been made in the very fact that some of the old resistance has broken. 15 years ago, they wouldn't have allowed the slightest use, and now it's already understood that it's not really a dispute. And I call on MPs to give this law a chance in the second reading, I don't think anyone's getting the crown out of their heads, and it can come out of it something useful and something that will improve Croatia, so I repeat once again that in some general cultural sense both in economic terms, in medical terms and in the end of opening jobs and in profit for budget. That's so much from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82411	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for this debate. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I said was in that replica very important topic, unfortunately it's too late, has us all together on the fingers of one hand to number what's the harm, but it's important to talk about this topic, to talk more often, to speak with some goal of achieving a shift. I'm only afraid, there are now tonight so we've come to some consensus that around the first two points we all agree more or less, and the third point we'll send to a broad public debate. Usually when you don't want anything brought in, you send out a wide public debate, you set up some kind of committee or some commission, and it's never gonna be anything. I mean, I'm truly very sorry, and I personally advocate legalizing marijuana. I don't think marijuana can convince me, and I don't think empirically... any research that compares the harmfulities of marijuana and alcohol, so someone can explain to me that, let's say, marijuana is more harmful than alcohol. Alcohol on the other hand, as one not only legal drug, but one substance that is being stimulated, for which incentives are being given, I don't think there's any of us who haven't met at some stage in life that didn't have any friends, acquaintances or family who didn't fight alcoholism. Whoever ran it can only conclude one thing, which is that alcohol is something in my opinion that is more dangerous, more destructive, more terrible, more incurable, than any alleged addiction to marijuana. With the fact that in my 38 years of life, I still haven't heard a single case of someone who would be clinically dependent on marijuana. And I had a friend in high school, who thank God they knew how to burn three joints a day and then one period... Life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then at some point, they would realize that it made them uncomfortable, that they couldn't function because of them, so they would stop. Unfortunately, I know a lot of people who are so sorry, with a beer, two, three, four, five liters of wine, that they can't handle it. That's why I think it's from the point of view, and that's why we're not talking about nicotine. All my life, I've been thinking my whole life, since I was 19, I've been addicted to nicotine, and today I'm addicted to nicotine, but, uh, the damage I'm not smoking temporarily, I hope it lasts as long as possible. That addiction is just as terrible. Although you don't miserrate others here, you're actually dimming them with smoke. But, alcohol, I mean how many car accidents? How many aggressive acts, how many people were killed under the influence of alcohol, how much anger, anger, terrible. When a man gets high, there's no one to blame me, he'll probably pass it on, I don't care, when he gets high, the worst he can get is a fridge, you beat a couple of pounds. Now, unlike some politicians, as popular as it is to say, I tried it once, so I didn't like it, I tried it several times, not once, I can say that I use it here and there. It doesn't work for me at some point, sometimes yes, sometimes not, but I would love to, when I wish it, as 14% of the Croatian population wished, that I didn't have to go to someone, who knows someone, who knows someone, so I could buy something I don't know what I bought. Well, I'd like to live one day in a country that's civilized, which calls things the right name, which says, we're going to share all psychotropic substances, treat them equally. In fact, we can't, I don't agree with my colleague, Celic, you can't compare heavy drugs, you can't compare cocaine or heroin, and neither can any of these synthetic drugs compare to THC. Of these synthetic drugs, there's absolutely no use, and this is what it's doing. But with everything that goes too far, it's not good. You know you can start drinking in the morning, from 7 a.m. to 7 a.m., and by the end of the day, you'll be disfigured. I mean, we're here talking about how harmful marijuana is and how much it leads I don't know about problems, and I mean, at the bar here in the Parliament, we've been going from early morning to early, some of our colleagues are going to beat on brandy. Well, then we've got a lot of bigger problems with them than if they set a joint on fire, so they'd either take a nap or I don't know if they were darkening a sandwich. Well, I'd rather take a nap and darken the sandwich. Not to mention completely agreeing with my colleague, Sincic, that we should once accept the fact that we must take advantage of the opportunity. An opportunity that may not be given to us again. Here, threatening competition. I apologize for turning my back on you, I'm having trouble with my neck, I can't, I have to pick one side, so I'm talking to the promoters. That we should take advantage of the opportunity. Maybe we won't be given again, maybe someone from our neighborhood, some of the countries simply recognize this economic moment, tourism. I mean, how much of our budget is tourism. I know that sounds kind of awful when you say it like that. We're going to legalize marijuana a little bit like that, we're going to extend the season. Look, as much as I was, I mean I don't know, I guess we were all more or less at some point in our life in Amsterdam, it's not that terrible. It's very arranged you have, copy shops, in those coffee shops, let's say interesting because you can't drink alcohol. It's something that's there, say, coffee shops illegally, you can't smoke nicotine, you can smoke tea. So, they recognize the harmfulness of other addictions. And there you'll see on the road that people wander things, but it comes under other things. I mean, in Amsterdam, you can't find a free bed all year, no. Why would we always have to be on the bumper of some... And now that I'm not going too wide, I mean, there was a need to say, I've been waiting all day to say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your law has a good intensity, some parts are bad, you'd like it to get a chance to go to another reading. Personally, I'm going to vote for, I think here, as you've been subdued by some mistake, that it should be fixed, and if it doesn't pass now, it shouldn't be seen as some kind of... Tragedy, that's not what we should try to collect points from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think at least it's a subject for me that I think that it promotes Croatian society, that little hypocrites, is always herbs for Croatian society, and so, if that doesn't go away now, let's try some other combination, some other club, some other idea, to reform, just that when I hear a broad public debate, it gives me hair on my head. Because it means guaranteeing that absolutely none of it will ever be anything. And if there's nothing going to be, let's open up here, one really serious debate in this House, about completely, let's say ban advertising of alcoholic products. Let's not play dumb so we don't say beer isn't alcohol, beer is alcohol. I don't know how you guys, if I drink three beers, I'm dead drunk. Maybe not 3 but 4 beers, I wouldn't dare come here to sit in this assembly, unlike some, you wouldn't. And beer is advertised, I even saw on Jadrolini's ferrys, the Croatian word for beer is, so not to advertise the brand of beer, I mean disaster. And that's still our state, that shipping agency. I mean what you said about beer commercials at every turn. It creates a lot of pressure. You sit in a bar, have a drink, beer. Give me a beer, give me a beer, and then people order another round, and you don't like it anymore, so always somebody, it's a bad thing, let's talk about it. Well, let's work it out, a little harder, but that lobby's a little stronger. And I'll tell you there's a safe lobby of the black market. There is one part of people who do not advertise, who do not have, are not listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which is in the best interest of this being no legal business, the blacker it is. That's where the big money goes, you said yourself how much the percentage of the year's arrest, how much marijuana is participated in all sorts of police actions, when drugs are being squandered. It doesn't make any sense to me. So if it were regulated, if it were completely decriminalized, it would legalize one large number of these guys, unfortunately, stop being so profitable, they'd still be making money, but not as much and the Croats would know if they bought, what they bought, what they bought not to go with localisms, what they bought, what they expected from that sale, this also agrees with this argument, from selling such a substance, THC, i.e. marijuana canaboid could be financed by therapy for those real addicts, addicts, unfortunately, and for one part of the drugs that we support here, which is alcohol and nicotine. I think we could all benefit from it more or less, and now we can analyze as much as we want. We can say that we encourage a young man to do drugs, that we're anti-social, that we're like this, that kind of thing, but basically, I think we're already old, old-fashioned little phrases. Let's go forward, let's try this now, I'm probably not going to make it, I respect the attitude and opinion of the club of everyone, it's my opinion, I'll back this up, I hope it goes through the second round. If it passes into the second reading, let's try to fix it, if not the next one in a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82413	Thank you, fellow Sauchi. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't know who moralized here. So as for marijuana addiction, take any classification manual from psychiatry, take data from the European Monitoring Centre, the most common drug addiction tool in Europe, for which people appear for treatment of addiction is marijuana. So I'm not exculpating, so the fact that it's legalized alcohol and tobacco is talking about enormous numbers and the fact that it's socially acceptable drugs. But you're talking about medicine, marijuana miracle medicine. Well, cocaine is a hundred times better medicine than marijuana. An anaesthetic used in the '60s, about heroin not to talk. So you have heroin treatment in the Netherlands, enter uchtenhagen heroin system treatment. So any drug can be used as a cure, not just marijuana.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82415	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. Comrade Sauch's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82416	My dear colleague, I've been taking into account that you're a psychiatrist, and I'm just as common as that layman. I can't know so well that you know, but one thing I see as a layman daily, means a citizen moving among a particular circle, that personally I've never seen anyone who's addicted to marijuana to the extent that a man had to go to treatment. ... Okay, now you're telling me that that's how it is, and you're just a little bit, you're a doctor, I'm not saying that you have no idea what you're talking about, you know, because you have a degree, I'm on this side of the layman, I'm just telling you that in my life I've seen countless alcoholics and people of my age and older people and all possible social groups, and I've never met a marijuana addict before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's all I'm saying, you don't have to be offended right now, you don't have to say right now that I'm doing the doctoring or moralizing. That's all I said, experience no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82417	I thank my colleague, Sauch. Here's a chance for you and your colleague, Cellic, to arrange a visit to the MPs who want to do this to your facility so they can expand their views a little bit. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82418	Thank you, Your Honor, so one interesting thing is that where marijuana is legalized, there is actually a reduction in the number of users. It's the same as when you mentioned alcohol in the U.S. they went with prohibition, it lasted 10 years, and then they saw that they actually did a lot more damage than good. They created a black market, and people consumed even more. It's always forbidden fruit in some way attractive, so people do it out of some rebellion sometimes, resistance, etc. This reminds me of that story from the time of Yugoslavia when everyone sang Ban Jelačić and Villa Velebit, and ever since the Croatian state came into existence I don't remember hearing it, I may have heard it several times in the last 28 years. So it's just that some people have a clean ban on themselves that makes them do something. So the experience of Portugal shows where it was legalized that the number of users decreased by 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82419	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Your colleague Sauch's answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGE esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82420	Thank you, Chairman. Before I go on a taste of medical use, I'd just like to read what's in our explanation. So I'm reading: these legal changes allow for cultivation, processing, use and transport of hemp for medical purposes. We all know, it can only be imported now. Any minor who considers that hemp or hemp-based preparations help treat disease or remove symptoms and disease-related problems may grow the amount of hemp needed to use or collect a hemp-based preparation for his own treatment. Now, there's only one person who sees diagnosis, just dosing, just regulation, no. Because it reads as follows: the way in which this right is exercised, the way in which this right is exercised, which is the procedure for determining and registering the medical condition, the indicative assessment of the amount of plants for individual treatment procedures and the like, as well as the conditions that must be met by a natural or legal person for the purpose of registering, carrying out activities of breeding, processing, production and placing on the market of hemp and its preparations for the purposes of others will be prescribed by the Minister of Health, with the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Justice. So for the third time, I hope it's clear now. Not only is it in the articles, but it's in the explanation, here's the paragraph b, the last paragraph B before that part of the recreation. I think they're from the Croatian Institute of Public Health. As for December 2017, cancer was diagnosed through 119 490 people, epilepsy in 26 878 people, migraines through 38 958 people, and now all other diseases are listed. We are actually due to insufficient regulation, not enough modern, modern regulation of these people, of course not all medical hemp for treatment, but to those whose doctor prescribes it, we know from 2015 it is possible for cancer and epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, we are actually forcing them to go to the pharmacy and these days the media is not able to buy at all, to go to the pharmacy and leave there 1000 to 2000 kuna, it's some normal therapy, like this month, which is a pension or a large part of the salary so in that pharmacy, just to be able to relieve their symptoms or to say, treat yourself in this way. That's what practice needs to be done. On the one hand, we have abandoned villages, agricultural declines, 20% of corn production since last year, only in a few cultures we have a rise, everywhere else is a total breakdown. On the one hand, we have the devastation of the village and the decline of agricultural production, on the other hand we have hundreds of thousands of people here who are crying or could cry out for treatment using medical hemp, but we are asking them for huge money to make it right that they go out to Canada instead of making two problems of making two winners, no, we prefer bad-bad situations instead of saying English whether, win-win. Therefore, who has a place to grow after being diagnosed with the condition, allows him to grow for himself. Whoever has no place to grow, he will buy from the one from Croatia who has a place to grow. We have huge agricultural areas, it can be arranged. I hope we all understand that. As far as the law itself is concerned, at the end of the day, I would like to invite you all to send this law to a second reading, to accept at least 2/3 of the law, or in a second reading, we can formulate it in a way that at least this part of the agricultural area where there's probably nothing controversial and this medicine where it might be a little bit more controversial, but again, as far as I can see it, that at least two parts of the law, we can accept 2/3 of the law, so that finally here we can make life easier for thousands of people and fill the budget and employ people, reduce imports and all the good that it should be. If you will not already accept our law, then write your law and by summer it can all be settled, the Law on drug abuse is not a complex law. It is not a complex law, nor is it necessary to amend many articles in order to regulate it. I believe a team of lawyers can do it by summer. If you could lex Agrokor, a much more complex and complex law made in February, you can see now in February and March, so in April, you can vote this. Therefore, here I call upon you once again to support our initiative or to make your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82421	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic, for this final word, we have exhausted all the debates, I conclude the debate. I would like to thank another representative of my colleague Bunjc for the reasons of the bill and my colleague Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we will continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session adjourned at 20.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-10-0.u82422	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 210. The promoter is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting, the next conclusion, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on drug prevention and drug abuse is not adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 72 for, 7 abstentions and 2 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
