ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u78392	The following statement of the Club's position on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u78393	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am being attached to my colleagues' views in a way that I would especially like to stress that shipbuilding is a very important economic issue for the entire Republic of Croatia, and since I come from the 8th electoral unit, I am thinking first of all about the Oilic and 3rd May. This important economic issue speaks of the fates of several thousand jobs, of their families, of accumulated acquired very rich knowledge. It is about the Croatian export economy and it is about important economic construction that has a long tradition. The olive oil was also one of the key levers of development in Istria, and of course, along with the 3rd of May and Kvarner, but the whole of the Republic of Croatia is also on us as well as the task of keeping it that way in the future. What I personally want, I expect, and I believe that the oil company with the new administration will know how to take advantage of this situation and be prepared at the level of competence to make a step in the future. In fact, in today's market, it is in no way easy to be competitive. But what I said earlier, Uljanik, is the advantage of the Oilers as its workers, richly acquired knowledge, the oil has 160 years of accumulated knowledge that needs to be capitalized and can once again show them all its strength. On the Istrian peninsula, as previously said, there is a political agreement between all relevant policy options on this subject and not only in terms of sustainability, but also in terms of the length of the shipbuilding step. However, both the Uljannik and the 3rd May need further concrete support and concrete support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in that sense, I expect both concrete steps and concrete measures from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and all in order to preserve and improve shipbuilding and I believe that the Government will soon and concretely and manifest itself on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u78394	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, at this position of the Club, for setting a break by 13.30 p.m. when we continue to vote on the debated points. It's a 13.05 p.m. meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86154	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law on foundations, first reading, P.Z. No. 345; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr. Darko Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's the '95 Foundations and Foundations Act. The year was, and in 2001 the law was amended and complemented and based on longevity, so we have analysed both the basic law and the supplement. So we have also seen a number of shortcomings that need to be corrected so that, in this long-term application of the current law, the need for better regulation of a series of issues has been seen, and this law has been set out to create a legal framework that should be encouraged to develop a foundation but also to encourage trusts in transparent management and action. The proposal for a Foundation Act that is before you today in relation to the applicable law in substance is proposing the following amendments. I'm going to try here as briefly as possible to describe what these changes are. First, a simpler and shorter procedure for the establishment and registration of the foundation at the offices of the state administration in the county, i.e. the city office of the City of Zagreb, responsible for the affairs of the General Administration towards the foundation headquarters, rather than at the Ministry of Management. So we're kind of proposing a deconcentration. Those offices would be responsible for keeping a register of foundations as well as a register of foreign foundations to be entered by foreign foundations, i.e. present representations of foreign foundations and foundations. This also enables legal protection to be achieved through the two-stage resolution of these administrative matters in such a way as to prescribe the right to appeal against the first-degree solution of the competent offices concerning the registration or entry of changes to registers and which it then decides in the second instance of the Ministry of Administration. Since it is under the applicable law that three solutions are needed to enable the foundation to be established and that only one solution should be adopted within 30 days of the duly submitted application simplifies this procedure, which is assessed as encouraging for the establishment of new foundations. The second important amendment is that the regulation under which the conditions of the trust can carry out economic activities and under which conditions the underlying assets of the trust may be increased or reduced. One of the important changes is to prescribe opportunities for the implementation of status changes, meaning attaching, joining and dividing, thus solving the existing legal gap and responding to real problems and situations in which trusts are found in everyday practice. This bill also makes it more clear that inspection supervision is prescribed and that the process of termination of the trust is simplified, which will ultimately contribute to the real establishment of the number of active trusts. The public register of foundations and registers of foreign foundations is also highlighted. The data entered in these registers shall be made public and published on the website of the Ministry of Administration and through a link to the register of non-profit organisations will make publicly available reports on the financial operations of the trusts as well as foreign foundations. And as a last important question, it is proposed to delete the foundation as a legal form of trust but a limited duration of up to 5 years. We have assessed the most meaningful further, inconsistencies of this legal form since it is also proposed to prescribe an exception according to which the foundation can be established for a specified period of time until the purpose of the trust is fulfilled if so determined by the act establishing the trust. Here, in these few sentences, I've really tried to isolate what's most important, and for all the other questions, I'm at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86156	Thank you. A representative of the board here to us so we can open the debate. He is the first colleague of Goran Beus on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. While welcoming the representatives of the Government, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU clubs, the initiative that a rather outdated legal text is actually inaugurated by a different approach and that several new institutes are included in the legal framework defined by the foundation. We must be aware that unfortunately the foundation despite having a relatively long tradition is not rooted in the Croats and that is bad. It would be good if the idea that runs the foundation of association or the determination of property to break the community or other people was promoted more than ever and to create conditions in which this type of solidarity of encouragement, if you want and quality, would be more present than ever. 200 and some foundations operating in the Republic of Croatia and only a small number of those who are truly financially relevant testify that there is a large space for the development of the foundation and that it would be good to encourage this form of public action, above all for the benefit of generations to arrive. Because the users of trust funds and trust funds are mostly younger people, they are mostly students, students, it's mostly about materialising the idea of excellence and helping those who do not have the conditions to progress in what they do in education and in some ways this series of innovations was needed 5.6.7 years ago, but it's good that the Ministry of Administration has responded and has somehow classified a number of remarks by those who have dealt with the foundation to modernise the text. What this law has not resolved, unfortunately, is a matter of specific forms that we call conditionally private foundation, so a private foundation that can be used by someone who is very close to you. Unfortunately, at this time, you can establish a trust fund and a trust fund can go towards everyone, but let's just say you can't treat your descendants. It's not good, I think sooner or later there's going to be a need to allow this form of foundation because I don't see any reason to say Grandma or Grandpa don't establish a foundation for the education of their grandchildren. It makes no difference, formally, whether their resources go to someone else or to a family member when it comes to the allocation of the funds they have. On the other hand, some of the foundations that already exist and operate in the Republic of Croatia promote a quality idea of solidarity if you want philanthropy, but it is only on the fingers of one hand to count the foundations behind which large companies stand. It should work in terms of promoting this idea, so if you want to encourage the relief that some of the capital acquired in the profit action is directed towards publicly beneficial, socially beneficial purposes that go towards creating a better future. I'm not going to advertise any of these foundations here right now, but it's nice to see the foundations of some large companies every year when they announce competitions for projects from culture, education, improving healthy lifestyles, preserving the environment and other activities in which the funds are invested. The most famous Croatian foundation established under a special law will be reminded by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, and it is an example of a view, I would say a unique example in all new EU member states of how a trust fund idea can contribute to the development and strengthening of civil society, the NGO sector in the best way possible, with the establishment and preservation of the highest levels of general control standards and socially beneficial spending of public funds. As a representative club, we will support this idea, but we note that we expect that in the near time precisely because of the experiences that exist, the initiatives that have been addressed to the promoter and the private foundation, or private foundations, are also included in the solution, that is, this legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86158	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86159	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Nekic, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on foundations, foundations that cover the space of innovation and creativity that is independent of the state and of some other interests of the premises of new sustainable changes in society that can certainly be a catalyst of new development programs. In 1995, the Act on Foundations and Foundations for the first time regulated their establishment, structure, activity and supervision of work, then in 2001 the amendments and additions to that law were made to the registration and termination of the representation of foreign foundations and foundations and during the time period the number of registered foundations in the Republic was observed so that 47 foundations, 2008. 124, all the way to the current 242 foundation, 10 foundations and 9 foreign foundations and foundations. In view of this apparent increase in the number of trusts as well as the observed shortcomings of previous laws in practice, the need for a new legal framework was created which would be encouraged to develop a foundation but at the same time guaranteed transparent management and action. Since, unfortunately, we also have negative examples of the functioning of certain foundations and foundations that have paved this area for their primary purpose of benevolence. In addition, it is necessary to inform our citizens of the general and humanitarian purpose of the trusts of which society should benefit more. In this way they themselves will be able to recognize the quality of the work of individual foundations as well as their possibly non-transparent activity. Although the current law has contributed to the development of the foundation and the development of civil society through the foundation, the need for better regulation of certain issues in the field of foundation has been observed, and I would thus point out some of them, such as the need for a better and simpler procedure of establishing and registering a trust where the unnecessary existence of three solutions needed to be made so that the trust or foundation could at all begin with the work and this administrative obstacle to this proposal has been significantly reduced and only one solution is now needed, and within 30 days of the orderly submission of the request, registration is made, which certainly simplifies the procedure itself and encourages the establishment of new foundations. This proposal provides for the conditions under which the Foundation can carry out economic activities and the conditions under which the foundation's assets can be increased and reduced. Just to remind ourselves of the provisions of the current law, the conditions for the reduction of personal property were not prescribed, so this law prescribes how property can be increased or reduced if it ensures the achievement of the purpose and the existence of the foundation. Provisions on the internal structure and management of the foundation leave much greater room for the trustees themselves to manage the work of the foundation in such a way that it achieves its original charity as effectively as possible. When it comes to the need for transparent work of the foundation, this law emphasises the public register of trusts and registers of foreign foundations and their transparency of action, all data included in the registers will be made public, on the pages of the Ministry of Administration, the publication of annual reports on the work of the foundation so that the interested public and potential donors will be better informed of their work. At the same time, this will contribute to strengthening citizens' trust in the work of foundations that we promote cultural, educational, scientific, sports or any other social activity. In addition to all of these, this law provides a number of other constructive solutions that will be encouraging for the establishment and development of foundations and also obliges them to provide transparent management and action. And what's most important is that this bill of law makes the state an even better partner to all those who express their will and commitment to charity. It is necessary to enable the foundations to devote their work to the greatest achievement of their purpose and not to block them with unnecessary administrative barriers, and as long as their work and contribution is positive while at the same time transparent and, of course, legal, it is necessary to remove obstacles to developing potential and a positive impact on Croatian society. Based on all this, this proposal of the HDZ Foundation Act will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86160	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, counterpart Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The existing Act on Foundations and Foundations was passed 23 years ago with one amendment 17 years ago and sublegal acts have already been in force for 8 years. In the previous period, the need for improvement has been seen, or in order for Croatia to say the confregation of the fund law, it was also considered in previous mandates of the Ministry of Administration and I am pleased that we have a proposal for a new Law on Foundations in Parliament in the first reading. He's a clue of the thinking that we had while we were in power, and in that sense the SDP Representatives Club will support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86162	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulja is gone, so State Secretary Mr. Darko Nekic, on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the representatives and clubs who participated in the support and until the next reading, of course, we will discuss this part of the private foundation mentioned by the esteemed representative Richembergh, so I expect that with a much better text we will come to the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86164	Thank you very much, and that concludes the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86165	Proposal for a Foundation Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 345, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies to vote, the following conclusion first, the proposal of the Foundation Act and the second, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 118 are for, 3 abstentions and 1 vote against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86166	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 344 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mrs Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go, Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86167	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 30 January this year abolished Articles 103, 126a. and 129, section 5. The Pension Insurance Act shall cease to apply with effect from 15 July 2018. Those provisions prescribed the control and control procedures on the basis of which the right was exercised, and the conduct of extraordinary checks on invalidity pensions as well as on physical damages in which a decision has been adopted in connection with the recognition of those rights. In fact, surveillance and control could be carried out independently of the expiry of the time limit from the power of the solution, so without a time limit which created legal uncertainty for the users of these rights. By that decision, the Constitutional Court declared these provisions unconstitutional only because that deadline was not determined in which supervision and control could be carried out. This Proposal for a Law will implement the Constitutional Court decision and those provisions will in fact comply with the Constitution. It shall continue to allow supervision and control, as well as exceptional checks on the rights applicable before their introduction, but a period of one year from the power of the decision on the recognition of the rights in which they can be exercised and a new solution shall be introduced. The new solution will annul or abolish the rightful solution, depending on the nature of the established illegality or irregularity. The period of one year shall be in accordance with the time limit of the Article. 131st, 2nd century. The law on a general administrative procedure whereby an illegal solution can be abolished within one year of the delivery of the solution to the party. This is also in line with the principle of legal certainty, since it is an error in the conduct of the competent authority which will result in a loss of the party's right. The Party shall bear the consequence of the illegal or irregular operation of the competent authority. Furthermore, regarding an extraordinary review, it is explicitly prescribed that the subject of this review is a check of the legality and regularity of the findings and opinions on which the decision is based. In addition, a time limit shall be introduced within which the findings and opinions adopted in an extraordinary control review must be audited, which shall be no later than 60 days before the expiry of the deadline for the decision on the control and control procedure, i.e. before the deadline mentioned in the year. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86168	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. She is the first colleague of Ljubica Lukacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As noted by the State Secretary, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 30 January 2018 repeals Articles 103, 126a. and 129, section 5. Pension Insurance Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European These provisions prescribed the control and control procedure of the facts on the basis of which the right was achieved and the conduct of extraordinary checks on invalidity pensions and physical damages, which adopted a powerful solution to the recognition of those rights. The supervision and control could be carried out independently of the expiry of the time limit from the power of the solution. So no time limit. By that decision, the Constitutional Court declared these provisions unconstitutional and it was necessary to bring the Pension Insurance Act in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. This Proposal for a Law will implement a decision of the Constitutional Court which I spoke about earlier, and it is also prescribed to allow for supervision and control and an extraordinary review of the rights applicable before their introduction, but this proposal introduces a period of one year from the power of the decision on the recognition of the rights in which they can be exercised and a new solution shall be adopted. The new solution will annul or abolish the rightful solution depending on the nature of the irregularity or possible irregularity found. The period of one year shall comply with the deadline of the Article. 131st, 2nd century. The General Administrative Procedure Act, according to which an illegal solution may be abolished within one year from the date of delivery of the solution to the party. Furthermore, regarding an extraordinary control review, it is explicitly prescribed that the subject of this review is a check of the legality and regularity of the findings and opinions on which the solution is based. These amendments and amendments to the laws also introduce a deadline within which the findings and opinions adopted in the extraordinary review must be audited. This deadline shall be determined within a minimum period of 60 days before the expiry of the deadline for the adoption of a solution in the control and control procedure. So, the deadline I mentioned earlier for a year. Therefore, following all of this, the HDZ Club supports the amendments and additions to this law, since they are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86170	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of GLAS Club and HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86171	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We do not have much to support or not to support the adoption of this law, because, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, we have to propose and amend something here, because the Constitutional Court has put aside the provisions of Article 3 of the Pension Insurance Act, although I deeply disagree with that Constitutional Court decision, we must respect it. I agree with those who have given an opinion, for reasons, which, if someone is exercising one's right, on forged documents, on false documents, is a criminal offence and essentially must never become obsolete, i.e. there can always be a possibility of reviewing, reviewing the procedure. I can only agree in part with the Constitutional Court that it cannot be quite without any deadline, but I cannot agree with such a short term. I am also aware that it is very difficult to prove the facts that are present in disability or physical impairment, after 5, 7 or 10 years because it is either 15 or 20 years because the health situation is very often changing to worse, very rarely for the better. We also don't have to slave, because the Constitutional Court didn't say it had to be within a year. We do not have to slave for a general administrative procedure, and I think that the appropriate period in which the revision of disability and physical damage in the pension system could be made should be half the experience, or half the time of retirement, is about 20 years in Croatia. Therefore, the optimal time limit for an extraordinary legal remedy, until an audit can be done, should be the most, i.e. 10 years. This is too small. People will be playing hide-and-seek, so that we understand each other for a year, let a year go by, and more, whoever's in the pits, he's holed up, and we can kind of call this law "Enjoy the blizzards," you who like to hunt in the blur, because a year you'll be hiding, and then you'll enjoy your right. The message is afraid that whoever endures a year, no one can touch his rights anymore, no matter what is based on false findings and will come to, we will have a rush again, and those who will also know how to find holes, how to get their right based on false findings. If we understand each other and the Constitutional Court should know, that is, to give some recommendations, because you should know that after such a pension, it is not used until the experience, or, to the death of the users, but after that, we have extended payment through family pension. So the damage to fake pensions is huge, that's social damage. He took someone he might be able to help with a little pension. So it's not a story to play with and I'm sure if, when this comes to another reading, if you don't change this deadline for a year, I'm going to offer an amendment because it seems logical to me, that it's somewhere in the middle between that, or, that's objective in relation to the proof, because the reach afterwards is very difficult and in relation to the request of the Constitutional Court, that you don't leave unlimited time of revision. I repeat again, it is an extraordinary legal remedy, it is not about any regular regulatory audits, the procedure is regulated by the law that within 60 days of the revision, the story should be completed and given, the findings and the new solution should be published. So, on that part, I have no objection, the only objection is to this deadline of a year, which I consider to be on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU too short, and we know that this should be supported, so we will not be against the adoption of this law, but because of this too short period and the intention to achieve in another reading consensus to adapt it to everyone because I've talked to other clubs who think about it the same way, although they are not here in the debate, to achieve one consensus that there is an optimal deadline, that we don't send the stragglers an opportunity, they're open to you, that you can burden other pensioners with your false rights. That would be the wrong message, and I don't think the purpose of this law is to make such a message, the objective is to make a proper decision of the Constitutional Court, but we must be careful what messages we send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the only message we can send is muttering is forbidden, exercising the right to false grounds is a crime. One member of the board said so look at this, if this crime can always be done by an extraordinary procedure, someone can initiate a criminal procedure. Who's gonna do it? In a country where false solidarity is above all else, in a country where there is no obligation within the institution to revise such procedures. Who's gonna do it? No one's going to chase anyone, everyone's protecting everyone because we live in the country wanted to admit it to me or not, false solidarity for us is unfortunately heroes who are the ones who cheat and those who somehow made it based on their payments and their employment rights are the victims of this system. I haven't heard that in all my years of politics, one pensioner showed another because he had a fake pension and he's got them, and you know who signed them and all that together. I appreciate the fact that it was 10, 15 years ago and that it's hard now, but I'm not sure it was the only thing that was in the pension system. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law, we are not against the adoption of this law because the obligation is on the Constitutional Court's decision, however much I question its quality, but in order to send a better message to the citizens, or the only one that the Parliament could send, we will be as a club of GLAS and HSU refrained from voting in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86172	Thank you, too. Next is counterpart Miranda Mrsic, who is not there, and then, again, colleague Silvano Hrelja, neither will you, nor will counterpart Branimir Bunjca. The secretary of state will end up for a short while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86173	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Just once again, I would like to mention and stress that by the Constitutional Court's decision that he declared those provisions unconstitutional only for the reason that it was not prescribed and that it violated legal certainty and that deadline refers to a period within which supervision and control can be carried out. This proposal will implement the Constitutional Court's decision and the law will comply with those provisions in accordance with the Constitution. What we all know is that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not questioned but implemented, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are so and we know that the Constitutional Court is, in fact, the summit of the Supreme Court and that this is the way to perceive it. You mentioned a colleague of the Hrelja and everything that happened 10 years ago. So if it is established that there was an irregularity and it has been more than a year, it can always be handled under some other laws such as the Law on Criminal Procedure, etc., and in this case it is exclusively about compliance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on general administrative procedure and therefore it is in fact horizontal harmonisation which we know is also extremely important for the sake of legal certainty. Here, that's it for the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86174	Thank you. We will now take a short break from 10 minutes to 12.15 and then we will continue with the 2016 HRT Business Report until we are joined by HRT CEO Kazimir Bačić, who is on board. Thank you very much. MEETING AT 12:00 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-14-0.u86175	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, first reading P.Z. No. 344, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal of the Law Please vote. I find that with 81 votes for, 21 abstentions and 1 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2016. The applicant is the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 44th century, 4th century. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 107 votes for, 3 abstentions and 4 votes against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent board.
